*    IRESETTLERIE T ACTION PLAN
RESET L MENT AUDIT
LESSONS    THE FUTURE
RP1 88
September 2003
i 10
SCANN-  ~ :2ZL              /F
ssion No .                  / m
N  Dt
ton
;~~~~~~~& i- "a--
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
GHANA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
September 2003



0                                   k
i
i
I
i
I
i
i
i
i
I
i



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Volta River Authority (VRA) has conducted this review and audit of its
resettlement operation for the Prestea - Obuasi Transmission Project in order to
assess the extent to which its current policies and practices accord with international
standards, specifically, the World Bank (IDA) social safeguard policy on involuntary
resettlement, which is codified in Operational Directive (OD) 4.30.
IDA has provided support to the Ghana Thermal Power (P-VII) Project (P000296)
since project approval in Fiscal Year 1995. As one activity under this project, IDA
agreed to finance the construction of a high voltage transmission line and associated
facilities (hereafter, the 'line'), running from Prestea to Obuasi, in the Western,
Central, and Ashanti Regions. The line, which runs for some 114.6 km between the
two towns, parallels an existing line but with its own right-of-way (ROW), and was
built in 2002 to enhance the power carrying capacity of transmission line in the
Western part of Ghana.
IDA assistance requires that the Prestea-Obuasi Transmission Line (POTL) Project
follow established environmental and social safeguard policies, including IDA
approval of a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) under OD 4.30. Brief versions of such
a plan were submitted for comment, but no final resettlement plan was accepted by
IDA before construction began. The implementing agency, the VRA, did, however,
take steps under Ghanaian law and VRA practice to provide compensation to
affected people along the transmission line. This audit of the actions is undertaken
by VRA to assess the adequacy of resettlement along the line and to address the
question of compliance with IDA policies.
The report is presented in three parts: Part I consists of the POTL Resettlement
Action Plan; Part II presents the findings of the resettlement audit; and, Part IlIl
synthesizes lessons from the present undertaking for future investments.
This mission finds that VRA has minimized resettlement, conducted a complete and
thorough inventory of assets that unavoidably must be taken, used relatively current
and fair valuation procedures, and has successfully begun computerizing its record-
keeping system. In short, VRA has implemented a strong data collection and
analysis system for its resettlement compensation operations. At the same time,
inter-agency coordination with the Land Valuation Board (LVB) and the
understanding of the impacts of infrastructure development on local population could
be improved.
Specifically, two observations warrant mention:
First, the Land Valuation Board (LVB) is legally mandated to establish
compensation rates, conduct the physical asset inventory, issue a formal
inventory registry to affected persons, and calculate compensation
amounts. LVB has failed to fulfill its obligations in a timely and consistent
manner. Asset registers are commonly approved and delivered as much
as a year or two after the actual field inspection, greatly delaying
compensation payments to affected persons. Also, LVB's legally required
asset register (Form F) do not always accord with the Board's own
physical asset inventory. Nor do the compensation calculations always
accord with the Boards inventory and unit price list. As a result,
determining compensation amounts and fulfilling commitments of project-
affected persons become problematic.



* Second, VRA can usefully expand its focus from land acquisition per se to
include the impacts of those actions on local population. In this regard,
o Public information and participation can be expanded:
* notification and information meetings can include not only local
notables but also the community at large;
* PAPs can be provided not only the inventory of assets to be
taken but also the unit price list for assets and an itemized
breakdown of their compensation offers;
* affected people can participate more integrally in planning and
implementing projects, not only identifying affected plots, but
also in dispute resolution and by suggesting possible changes
to the line route based on information that may not be available
to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
o A local-level grievance procedure can deal more efficiently with
complaints, especially those for unanticipated construction damage.
o Attention needs to be paid to the special needs of vulnerable project-
affected persons, particularly the elderly and widows.
o Expanded socio-economic information about project-affected persons
(PAPs) would facilitate project monitoring and guide remedial
measures.
o Compensation payment must be better coordinated with construction
schedules, so that affected persons are paid before the construction
begins, not after the infrastructure has been built.
In this situation, recommendations for the POTL project to conclude its compensation
payment operation include:
* Verify compensation amounts for each PAP because the legal inventory of
assets lost (Form F) does not always accord with the actual physical count
made during the field inspection.
* Pay for all land taken permanently, not only house and building plots but also
pylons.
* Distribute unit price lists for lost assets, and provide itemized compensation
offers to PAPs.
* Establish local-level grievance committees to record and help resolve
disputes.
* Open local bank accounts to make compensation payments easier for PAPs.
* Implement a systematic procedure for identifying and compensating for
construction damages.
Longer-term recommendations for VRA's consideration include:
* Coordinate the inventory of physical assets and socio-economic survey more
closely with the engineering studies and topological survey.
* Institute a socio-economic data collection and monitoring system that
identifies vulnerable populations and facilitates tracking the effectiveness of
remedial measures.
* Institute a broader program of public information, consultation, and
participation, involving affected communities in planning and implementation,
providing unit prices for lost assets, and instituting a system of local-level
grievance committees not only for anticipated losses but also for accidental
construction damage, which constitutes a large proportion of existing
complaints.



*  Develop a Resettlement Action Plan to guide implementation of each
investment.
*  Institute measures to ensure that compensation payments are completed
before construction activities are started on short segments of transmission
lines and phase such activities on long segments.
The mission thanks the management and staff of VRA for its unstinting assistance,
support and collaboration at headquarters and in the field, thus greatly facilitating the
conduct of this review.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
I
i
I
i
i
I



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I: RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
I. Project Background, Project Description and Potential Impacts . ....... 1
A.   Project Background ............................ 1
B.   Project Description  ............................ 1
C.   Potential Impacts and Minimization of Resettlement ..... .  .  .  .   . . 2
II. Objectives of Resettlement Planning ...................... . 3
III. Organizational Responsibilities ........................ . 3
IV. Community Participation and Integration with Host Populations .... .  .   . . 4
V. Socio-economic Survey ............................. . 5
VI. Legal Framework ......... .. .. .. .     .. .. .  .. .. .. .  .. .   . 6
Constitution of the Republic of Ghana, 1992 .............. .  . 6
The State  Lands Act, 1962  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  6
The Volta River Development Act, 1961 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, 1964 .... . .. ... . 8
VRA (Transmission Line Protection) Regulations, 1967 ..... .  .  .  .  .   . 8
PNDC Proclamation Law, 1982 [Land Valuation Board] ..... .  .  .   . . 8
The Ghana Land Policy, 1999  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  8
VII. Valuation and Compensation for Lost Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
A. Eligibility .9
B.   Inventory of Affected Assets .10
C.  Valuation  M ethods  .  .  . .  .  . .  . .  .  . .  . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . .  .  .  11
D.   Negotiation of Agreements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
E.   Compensation  Payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
VIII. Assistance to Vulnerable Populations ......... .. .  .. .  .. ..   . 13
IX. Grievance Procedures ............................ . 14
X. Implementation Schedule ................. .... ....            .  15
XI.  M onitoring  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .16
XII. Costs and  Budget  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16



TABLES
Table 1: Number of Project Affected Person, by Type of Impact and Region . . 11
Table 2: Community Property Affected, by Type and Region . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 3: Implementation Schedule for Line Construction and Resettlement . . . 15
Table 4: Original POTL Compensation Budget ................. . 16
Table 5: Current POTL Compensation Budget .................. . 17
ANNEXES
A. Pertinent Laws and Regulations . ..... .  .  .  .  .   . . .. ..... ..  . Tab A
B. Publication of Public Notice of POTL Intent to Acquire ..... .  .   .... . Tab B
C. List of PAPs and Impacts, by Village, with Compensation Amounts . . . . Tab C
D. Valuation for Structures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . Tab D
E. Unit Value Rates, for Crops and Economic Trees . . . . . . .. . . . . . . Tab E
F. Negotiated Compensation Sums for Community Shrines and Cemeteries . Tab F
PART If: RESETTLEMENT AUDIT
A. Inventory of Assets Lost ..                                     1
1. VRA Procedure for Inventorying Assets Lost ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .. 1
2.  Enumeration  of Plots  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .   . .  1
3. Accuracy of Count of Physical Assets (Inventory) on Plots .... .   . .. 2
4. Correspondence Between Physical Inventory at Field Inspection
And the Legal Inventory of Affected Assets (Form F) . .. . .. . . . 3
5. Determining the Number of Project-Affected People ... . .. ...  . .  4
B. Valuation Process ......... .. . ..                             6
1.  VRA  Procedure  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  6
2. Valuation Rates ......... .    .. .  .. .  .. .  .. .  .. .  .. .  . . 7
3. Compensation Estimates .9
C. Transparency and Negotiation of Compensation Packages .10
D.  Payment of Compensation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
1. VRA Procedure .10
2. Compensation Payment to Date  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11



E. Project Monitoring ........ .. .   . ........... .. .    .. .  .   . 12
1. Project Monitoring ........ .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .  .  .   . 12
2. Monitoring Impacts on Vulnerable Populations ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   . .. 13
F.    Public Information and Participation .................... . 13
G.    Grievance  Procedures  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
H. Actions to Complete Resettlement Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
1. Establish Local-level Grievance Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2. Distribute Unit Price Lists and
Provide Itemized Compensation Offers ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 15
3. Verify Compensation Amounts, and Update to Current Rates .... .  .   . 16
4. Open Local Bank Accounts ....... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .. 16
5. Pay Balance of the Compensation ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 16
6. Implement a Procedure for Systematic Identification of
Construction Damages . ................... . ...... 17
7. Administer a Vulnerability Questionnaire to PAPs at the time of
the second compensation payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
8. Implement a Land Valuation Process that Facilitates Timely Compensation .17
TABLES
Table 1: Number of Project Affected Persons, by Type of Impact and Region . . 5
Table 2: Community Property Affected, by Type of Impact and Region .... .   . 6
Table 3: Total Compensation Due, Payments to Date
and Amounts Outstanding ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . 12
Table 4: Matrix of Recommended Actions, by Stage in Project Cycle ..... .   . 18
ANNEXES
Annex A: Independently Negotiated Unit Price List for Annual Crops
and Economic Trees . . . . ... .. .. ... . . .. . .... Tab A
Annex B: Compensation Payments, Total Due, Amount Paid and Amount
Outstanding, by village and PAP, for Crops and Structures . . . . Tab B
Annex C:    Compensation Payments, by Village
For Shrines and Cemeteries ................. . Tab C
Annex D:    Questionnaire to Determine Vulnerability of
Project Affected Persons .Tab D
Annex E:    Grievance Registration Form .Tab E



f
I
I
I
i
I
Ii
i
I                                  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



PART III: LESSONS FOR THE FUTURE
1. Develop a RAP to Guide Implementation .................... 1
2. Coordinate the Physical Asset Inventory with the Topological Survey . . . . . 1
3. Record Basic Socio-economic Information ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 2
4. Implement a land valuation process that facilitates compensation . . .   . 2
5. Involve Affected People Integrally ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 3
6. Complete Resettlement Before Starting Infrastructure Construction .... .  .   . 3
7.  Implement a Monitoring System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4



I
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



VRA BRIEFING
August 21, 2003
Gordon Appleby
Consultant
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
GHANA THERMAL POWER (P-VII) PROJECT
(P000296)
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Accra, Ghana
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
RESETTLEMENT AUDIT
LESSONS FOR FUTURE INVESTMENTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
o Verify the accuracy and completeness of the VRA activities carried out
in the taking of properties and payment of compensation with respect
to the Prestea-Obuasi 161 kV transmission project
o In collaboration with VRA, define, cost and plan a schedule for any
supplemental actions that may be needed to complete the land
acquisition and compensation activity to IDA standards under the
Operational Directive on Involuntary Resettlement.
o  Provide IDA with the documentation of past and recommended
activities in a form that will enable IDA to accept the acquisition and
compensation activities as meeting these IDA standards.
More specifically,
o Determine that affected persons have been fully and fairly
compensated
o Ensure that no claims or entitlements have been overlooked
o Ascertain that documentary evidence exists in support of adequate
compensation
o Ascertain that Land Valuation Board values represent full
replacement value for assets as defined by IDA policy
o Determine that social and community infrastructure has been
compensated
o Determine whether valuations for structures have been finalized
and, if not, set a firm timetable for finalization
o Ensure that there are no outstanding disputes or complaints still
unresolved
o Develop an Action Plan for any shortcomings identified
o Ensure that vulnerable people are provided any necessary
additional assistance
o Provide a full report that documents the tasks undertaken and the
remedial plan, if any



2.    RESETTLEMENT PLAN AND AUDIT
o     Determine that affected persons have been fully and fairly compensated
All affected persons were identified in the field inventory undertaken between
September 2001 and October 2002 (Audit, Section A). Compensation payment,
however, remains incomplete. Most project affected people (PAPs), including those
with structures, were paid half of their estimated compensation amount in April 2003,
in anticipation of the Land Valuation Board estimates, which were delivered between
May and July 2003 (RAP, Section X, Table 2).
o     Ensure that no claims or entitlements have been overlooked
All affected persons were identified in the field inventory undertaken between
September 2001 and October 2002 (Audit, Section A), and overlooked entitlements
have been corrected in the interim (Audit, Section G). However, some 150 claims
have since been received for construction damage. Funds are allocated to
compensate for these damages, and will be paid at the same time as the final
payment for lost assets.
o     Ascertain that documentary evidence exists in support of adequate
compensation
The field inspection notebooks and summary sheets of both VRA and LVB were
compared for consistency in recording the extent of assets to be taken (Audit,
Section A). LVB unit value rates for assets were reviewed with LVB (Audit, Section
B-1) and indirectly verified in the field (Audit, Section B-1). Some discrepancies
between the field inventory and the LVB legal inventory (Form F) were discovered in
one village (Audit, Section A), and VRA was been asked to verify the VRAILVB field
inventory with the LVB-issued Form F. Any difference between the two documents
was rectified by accepting the higher inventory count of assets. This work is now
complete, and compensation amounts have been finalized. Payment is anticipated
to be made by October 2003.
o     Ascertain that Land Valuation Board values represent full replacement
value for assets as defined by IDA policy
LVB unit value rates for assets were reviewed with LVB (Audit, Section B-1) and
indirectly verified in the field (Audit, Section B-1). One difference with IDA policy was
noted: LVB values, and VRA compensates for, land associated with structures, but
VRA does not pay for land taken permanently for pylons, which is inconsistent in
policy. Barring practical or logistical difficulties, this difference will be corrected by
the time final compensation payments are made.
o     Determine that social and community infrastructure has been
compensated
Social and community infrastructure has been inventoried (RAP, Table 1, p. 9), and
is being compensated. Like PAPs, communities received half of the estimated
compensation payment in April 2003, with the other half expected to be paid by
October 2003. The one exception is the relocation of three shrines, which work was
completed before project construction began.



o     Determine whether valuations for structures have been finalized and, if
not, set a firm timetable for finalization
The valuation for structures has been finalized, and a timetable set for payment of
the remaining compensation amounts (RAP, Annex B). This covers 19 houses and
one school.
o     Ensure that there are no outstanding disputes or complaints still
unresolved
As noted above, all affected persons were identified in the field inventory undertaken
between September 2001 and October 2002 (Audit, Section A), and overlooked
entitlements have been corrected in the interm (Audit, Section G). However, some
150 claims have since been received for construction damage, and these will be paid
at the same time as compensation for lost assets.
o     Develop an Action Plan for any shortcomings identified
An Action Plan is provided in Section H of the Resettlement Audit. The plan calls for:
o immediate verification of compensation amounts and updating of
compensation amounts where necessary to accord with policy (i.e.,
pylons),
o the opening of local bank accounts prior to the initiation of
compensation payment to eliminate difficulties that PAPs have
encountered in cashing compensation checks,
o the establishment of local-level grievance committees by the time
compensation is initiated in each place,
o distribution of unit price lists for assets taken and provision of itemized
compensation offers at the time compensation is effected, and
o implementation of a systematic grievance procedure by the time of
compensation payment in order to register compensation payment
complaints, and to identify and indemnify for construction damages.
o     Ensure that vulnerable people are provided any necessary additional
assistance
The RAP (Section Vil) considers the matter of vulnerable populations. The number
of vulnerable people will be small because of the nature of the project (i.e., taking a
30-meter wide strip at most) and mitigative measures put in place by VRA (i.e.,
clearing only the minimum necessary area in the ROW for construction activities).
VRA will, however, determine the number of vulnerable people in high-risk areas
(i.e., full ROW clearing of plantation crops), and put in place a program of additional
assistance if necessary.
In summary, the Ghana Thermal Power Project Prestea-Obuasi Transmission line
has inventoried all affected property, valued that property at current rates, negotiated
compensation amounts with the affected parties, and made partial payment to most
of the people and communities affected. Final payment for asset loss and
construction damage is expected to be made by October 2003, by or at which time
VRA will institute local grievance committees as necessary, distribute the unit price
list for assets, provide an itemized breakdown of compensation amounts, and
conduct a vulnerability survey to identify any persons who may require additional
assistance. Successful completion of all of these measures will ensure that the



POTL project complies with national laws and regulations and international standards
for resettlement operations.
At the same time, the experience of the Ghana Thermal Power Project Prestea-
Obuasi Transmission Line project to date provide several lessons for future
investments. These are:
o     Develop a Resettlement Action Plan to guide implementation of the operation
as part of the planning process.
o     Coordinate topological survey for transmission lines and other infrastructure
more closely with inventory of physical assets that will be lost.
o     Record basic socio-economic information for each affected household in
order to identify vulnerable populations, monitor project impacts and assess
effectiveness of remedial measures during implementation.
o     Involve affected people integrally in the project planning and implementation,
and provide all basic information (e.g., unit price lists).
o     Complete resettlement before initiating investment construction. And,
o     Implement a monitoring system, with particular attention to vulnerable
populations.



RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
GHANA THERMAL POWER (P-VII) PROJECT
(P000296)
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Accra, Ghana
September 2003



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
i
i
i
i
I
i
i
i
I



TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  Project Background, Project Description and Potential Impacts . .. 1
A.   Project Background .......................... . 1
B.  Project Description ......................... . 1
C.   Potential Impacts and Minimization of Resettlement ..... .  .  .  .   . 2
II.  Objectives of Resettlement Planning ..................... .   3
III. Organizational Responsibilities ....................... .     3
IV. Community Participation and Integration with Host Populations.  4
V.   Socio-economic Survey  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
VI. Legal Framework .......... .. .      .. .. .  .. .. .. .  .. .. .   . 6
Constitution of the Republic of Ghana,1 992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
The State Lands Act, 1962  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
The Volta River Development Act, 1961 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, 1964 . . . . . . . . 8
VRA (Transmission Line Protection) Regulations, 1967 .... .  .   . 8
PNDC Proclamation Law, 1982 [Land Valuation Board] .... .   . 8
The Ghana Land Policy, 1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
VII. Valuation and Compensation for Lost Assets .... . . ... . . . . . .. 9
A.   Eligibility .................... 9
B.   Inventory of Affected Assets ....................        10
C.  Valuation  Methods  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
D.  Negotiation of Agreements ....................            12
E.  Compensation Payment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Vil. Assistance to Vulnerable Populations .13
IX.  Grievance  Procedures  .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . 14
X. Implementation Schedule .15
Xl. Monitoring .16
XIl. Costs and Budget .16






TABLES
Table 1: Number of Project Affected Person, by Type of Impact and Region . . 11
Table 2: Community Property Affected, by Type and Region . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Table 3: Implementation Schedule for Line Construction and Resettlement . . . 15
Table 4: Original POTL Compensation Budget ................. . 16
Table 5: Current POTL Compensation Budget .................. . 17
ANNEXES
A. Pertinent Laws and Regulations ...................... . Tab A
B. Publication of Public Notice of POTL Intent to Acquire . . . . ..... . . Tab B
C. List of PAPs and Impacts, by Village, with Compensation Amounts . . .  . Tab C
D. Valuation for Structures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . Tab D
E. Unit Value Rates, for Crops and Economic Trees . . . . . . .. . . . . . . Tab E
F. Negotiated Compehsation Sums for Comnmunity Shrines and Cemeteries . Tab F
iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Al



1.    PROJECT BACKGROUND, PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACTS
A.    Project Background
The World Bank (IDA) has provided support to the Ghana Thermal Power (P-VII)
Project (P000296) since project approval in Fiscal Year 1995. As one activity under
this project, IDA agreed to finance the construction of a high voltage transmission line
and associated facilities, such as access roads, (hereafter, the 'line'), running from
Prestea to Obuasi, in the Western, Central, and Ashanti Regions.
IDA assistance requires that the Prestea-Obuasi Transmission Line project (POTL)
follow established environmental and social safeguard policies, including IDA
approval of a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) under Operational Directive (OD)
4.30'. Brief versions of such a plan were submitted for comment, but no final
resettlement plan was accepted by IDA before construction began. The
implementing agency, the VRA, did, however, take steps under Ghanaian law and
VRA practice to provide compensation to affected people along the transmission line.
This resettlement plan and audit of the POTL project are therefore undertaken by
VRA to assess the adequacy of resettlement planning and implementation in terms of
IDA policies, and, as necessary, to propose additional actions so that the POTL
operation is in compliance with those policies, specifically, the IDA social safeguard
policy on involuntary resettlement, OD 4.30.
B. Project Description
The Prestea - Obuasi Transmission Line project erected a 114.6114.6 km long, 161
kV line that parallels an existing line, but has its own right-of-way (ROW). POTL
involved erecting pylons approximately every 300 meters along the route. This work
required access roads, where these did not already exist, as well as staging areas to
erect the pylons and string the wire.
POTL did not require additional land for substations because the two termini for this
line already operate and both had sufficient land for the extension of their facilities.
In Prestea, the VRA substation is on the outskirts of town, and the additional facilities
were built on land owned by VRA that is adjacent to the existing substation. In
Obuasi, the substation is on land held by the Ashanti Goldfields Company, Ltd., but,
again, the existing power station there simply had to be extended on adjacent land
already available to VRA.
The line was built in 2002, and energized in April 2003, to enhance the power
carrying capacity of the transmission network in the Western part of Ghana.
'OD 4.30 was superseded by Operational Policy 4.12 in December 2002. Nonetheless, OD 4.30 is the
applicable policy here because this project was approved in FY 95, well before OP 4.12 became
elective. There are few substantive differences between OD 4.30 and OP 4.12 with regard to the
project iiinder consideration.



C.    Potential Impacts and Minimization of Resettlement
Building POTL required clearing in the ROW, erection of pylons, new access roads
and staging areas to string line. All of these activities require land, either
permanently or temporarily, and therefore create potential adverse impacts on local
populations
At the same time, the amount of land taken in any area is at most a 30-meter wide
strip, so that the project would affect relatively few people in any locality and most
affected people would lose only a portion of their agricultural lands. In other words,
for the most part, the potential impacts of the project would be relatively limited,
although the impacts could be significant for any particular individual.
As planned and executed, the line affected 669 households in 47 communities,
which, figuring six people per rural family, would represent approximately 4,000
project-affected persons (PAPs) in total. Most project-affected families - over 95
percent - lost agricultural production, either temporarily (e.g., field crops) or
permanently (e.g., palm oil and other tall tree crops). A small number of structures
were also affected -- 19 houses, one school; three shrines had to be relocated
outside of the ROW; and, four cemeteries were affected by removal of tall trees. In
addition some 160 people have lodged complaints of unanticipated construction
damage, mostly due to access roads; many of these people are PAPs who also lost
crops within the ROW.
VRA instituted several measures to minimize the extent of resettlement impact. First,
near populated centers, VRA rerouted the new line away from the existing line in
order to avoid residences and other structures. For example, in Bogoso, rerouting
the line away from the town reduced the number of affected structures from 30
residences that would have had to be removed to just one in another village near the
town. Similarly, the line at Dunkwa was also diverted away from the town in order to
similarly reduce resettlement impact.
Second, VRA instructed its contractor to clear as little productive land in the ROW as
possible for its activities. In hilly areas where the line runs near the highway, this
measure meant that the contractor could access the site for pylon construction with
minimal damage to crops, and did not have to clear the entire ROW between pylons.
In other areas, where the contractor needed to move between pylons, VRA limited
the extent of clearing to the minimum necessary for efficient construction. Thus, in
many areas, a strip between 5 and 10 meters wide (rather than the entire 30 meter
ROW) was cleared by the contractor for access to pylon sites, although tall trees
within the ROW were cut also down.
Third, VRA permits cultivation of low crops, including some tree crops, under the
transmission line in order to limit permanent crop loss to the irreducible minimum.
Under this measure, all annual crops and any low tree crops may be cultivated within
the ROW once the line has been erected. Effectively, this measure means that only
coconut and tall trees must be removed from the ROW; improved oil palm and
mature cacao, which reach a height of about 15 feet, may remain in at least the 10
meters on either side of the central transmission line corridor.



II.   OBJECTIVES OF RESETTLEMENT PLANNING
As a good corporate citizen striving to foment development and reduce poverty, VRA
subscribes as a matter of policy and practice to the following resettlement objectives:
* To conceive of and execute resettlement activities in a socially
responsible manner as sustainable development programs, providing
sufficient resources to enable persons displaced by the project to share in
project benefits;
* To consider involuntary resettlement as an integral part of project design,
and deal with resettlement issues from the earliest stages of project
preparation;
* To avoid land acquisition and involuntary resettlement wherever feasible,
and to minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement wherever
such is unavoidable;
* To consult with project-affected persons (PAPs) in a meaningful manner,
and to provide opportunity for their participation in the planning and
execution of resettlement programs;
* To assist PAPs in proportion to impact, recognizing the special needs of
vulnerable populations;
0 To compensate PAPs fully and fairly for all assets lost permanently or
temporarily, which means timely payment of full replacement value prior to
construction;
* To ensure that all PAPs who lose residences or businesses are provided
acceptable alternative accommodations before demolition of the
structures and construction of the infrastructure;
* To ensure that PAPs who lose income-generating resources are assisted
in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at
least restore them, in real terms, to pre-project levels;
These policy objectives apply to all direct economic and social impacts that result
from the project and that are caused by the involuntary taking of land that results in
relocation or loss of shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, or the loss of income
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected persons must move to
another location. Further, these policy objectives apply to all components of the
project that result in involuntary resettlement, regardless of the source of financing.
Ill.  ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
In accord with the Volta River Development Act, 1961, The Volta River Authority is
responsible for the acquisition of land, including compensation of landowners,
necessary for performance of its mandated activities. In addition, the Land Valuation
Board (LVB) is legally responsible for issuing inventories of assets to be taken (the
Form F), establishing compensation rates and determining compensation amounts
for each PAP. For this reason, VRA collaborates with LVB in the asset inventory and
verifies the LVB determination of compensation amounts.
Within VRA, the Engineering Department plans the alignment of the transmission line
and surveys the prospective line. About the same time, the Environment Department
commissions an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) to identify critical
environmental and social issues.



Once the topological survey has been completed, the Engineering Department
provides the Real Estate department (VRANRE) a copy of the topographical map.
The Real Estate department then conducts a field survey to inventory the plots and
structures that will be affected by the proposed alignment and infrastructure.
VRA/RE conducts this inventory in collaboration with regional representatives of the
Land Valuation Board (LVB) and the affected persons. The VRA/RE and LVB
inventories are reconciled, and, in principle, LVB issues to each PAP a legal registry
of assets lost (Form F). The assets affected are then valued by both VRA and LVB
on the basis of the LVB unit cost list, so that VRA can verify the LVB determinations.
Once VRA and LVB agree on compensation amounts, VRAIRE issues an offer of
compensation to each affected person. VRA/RE then provides the individual
agreements to the VRA Finance Department, which writes the cheques on the
corporate account. At scheduled community meetings, VRA/RE distributes the
cheques to the PAPs in the presence of local authorities, and collects the Form F
from each PAP once compensation has been completed.
VRA/RE works closely with local opinion leaders in the affected communities
throughout this process. VRA/RE or its contractors contact local leaders to inform
them of the proposed investment, maintain contact with these leaders during the
physical asset inventory and valuation, rely on the local leaders for feedback on PAP
grievances and unanticipated developments, and involve the leaders in the
negotiation and compensation payment process.
In addition, VRA/RE and project construction staff maintain close personal contact
with PAPs, listening to concerns, explaining procedures, and recording grievances,
among other matters.
IV.   COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION AND INTEGRATION WITH HOST POPULATIONS
VRA and its contractors inform the local populations on the POTL about each of the
various steps of the project.
Once the official notification of intent to acquire land is published in the newspapers,
VRA surveyors first contact local officials in each locality to inform them of the project
and to request permission to enter village lands for the topographical survey of the
line.
Subsequently, VRA enumerators contact village leaders in the communities along the
line, including Chiefs and their Elders, District Chief Executives, District
Assemblymen, Unit and Town Development Committee members, in order to solicit
their support and cooperation for the study. In the POTL project, appointments were
made with all communities except Prestea and Bogoso, which presented particular
issues, in order to collect relevant information about the communities and the
individuals affected for the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
Finally, VRA/RE representatives contact the notables in each locality to organize
community meetings with the PAPs. On these occasions, the VRA and LVB
representatives walk the transmission line with the PAPs in order to identify
ownership of each structure and agricultural plot affected and, together, to inventory
the structures and crops for valuation.



Once the inventory of physical assets affected has been compiled and checked by
VRA/RE and LVB, the agency representatives attend a meeting in each locality to
verify and agree upon the extent of impact on each PAP. At these meetings, the
VRA representative reads the inventory of affected assets to each PAP who then
signs to indicate his or her agreement with the inventory. In the instance of a
disputed inventory, the PAP may request a re-assessment or may, in exceptional
instances, commission an independent assessment.
In those instances where residences and other structures are affected, VRA enlists-
the assistance of local notables to assist in the identification of acceptable,
alternative plots, if necessary. All residential relocation takes place within the PAP's
current town or village, and usually requires moving back a relatively few meters out
of the ROW. PAPs can and do, however, chose to purchase replacement plots in
more central locations within their communities. For this reason, the question of
integration with a host population does not arise in the POTL project because all
physical relocation occurs within the PAPs' current communities.
V.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY
In order to assess the nature and extent of impact on local populations generally,
VRA undertook an analysis of the socio-cultural, economic, and demographic
situation in the project area as part of its Environmental Impact Assessment. The
POTL EIA also examined the vulnerability of PAPs and their families as a group in
order to provide a general measure of project social risk. The purpose of this part of
the study was to help identify mitigation measures necessary to redress possible
negative impacts of the project (EIA, p. 1).
The social survey under the EIA recorded basic information about the population of
each community (compiled by district), its social infrastructure, and its economic
activities (e.g,, agriculture, livestock, manufacturing, mining). The basic finding of the
EIA social study is that outside several mining communities and administrative towns,
the population is essentially agricultural, and is engaged in the cultivation of both
food crops (cassava, plantain, cocoyam) and cash crops (oil palm, citrus, cocoa,
coffee, and kola nuts). Many villagers keep some livestock (cattle, poultry, pigs), and
some process agricultural produce (e.g., cassava, oil kernels). In some localities,
artisanal mining is important to some households.
The EIA social survey also interviewed the 303 affected persons identified at that
time. The vast majority of those affected (93%) were primarily farmers, with the
others engaged as teachers, artisans, traders, public administration. Nearly all those
affected (over 95%) would lose food or cash crops or both; very few (1.3% at that
time) would lose residential structures, while 1 percent of the respondents were
unsure of how they would be affected. Because of the importance of agricultural
impact, the EIA looked into the land tenure situation. Nearly half the PAPs (48.2%)
own their own lands, while another quarter (24.4%) have lands on loan 'to be used
freely' (p. 17), usually from parents or spouse. Nonetheless, nearly a fifth of all
cultivators (17.2%) till land through sharecropping arrangements with the land
owners, while another 5 percent have land loans although the arrangement was
unspecified.



From a social perspective, approximately 10 percent of this group were then over 65
years of age, and nearly a third of the landowners were women (86 of 299). The EIA
found a high dependency ratio: the majority of the respondents (68.3%) have from 4
to 9 dependents, and about one-fifth (18.4%) have between 10 and 18 dependents.
"In all, the dependency ratio is about 15 dependants to one affected person" (p. 16).
In other words, there was a high potential rate of vulnerability among the affected
population.
The EIA survey also inquired into PAP concems. While the majority of respondents
(60%) expected some crop loss, most (90%) expected adequate compensation,
although a quarter of those canvassed expressed a concern that compensation
payment could be delayed (p. 15).
VI.   LEGAL FRAMEWORK
The Constitution of the ReDublic of Ghana, 1992 (Article 20), establishes that
no property "shall be compulsorily taken possession of or acquired by the State"
unless it is, among various purposes, 'to promote the public benefit" (Clause 1).
"Compulsory acquisition of property by the State shall only be made under a law
which makes provision for (a) the prompt payment of fair and adequate
compensation; and (b) a right of access to the High Court by any person who has an
interest in or right over the property...: (Clause 2). Further, "where a compulsory
acquisition or possession of land effected by the State in accordance with clause (1)
of this article involves displacement of any inhabitants, the State shall resettle the
displaced inhabitants on suitable alternative land with due regard for their economic
well-being and social and cultural values" (Clause 3). If property acquired in the
public interest is not used for that purposed, the original owner is given first option to
purchase the property at a price equivalent to the original compensation amount
(Clause 6).
The State Lands Act. 1962 vests in the President the authority to acquire land
for the public good. The President "may, by executive instrument, declare any land
specified in the instrument ... to be land required in the public interest" (Sect. 1-1). A
copy of the instrument shall "(a) be served personally on any person having an
interest in the land; or (b) be left with any person in occupation of the land; and (c) be
affixed at a convenient place on the land; and (d) be published on three consecutive
occasions in a newspaper circulating in the district where the land is situated" (Sect.
2). "On the publication of an instrument..., the land shall, without any further
assurance than this subsection, vest in the President on behalf of the Republic, free
from any encumbrance whatsoever" (Sect. 1-3).
The State Lands Act 1962 theoretically places responsibility for registering a claim on
the party affected. "Any person claiming a right or having an interest in any land
subject to an instrument made under section 1 of this Act or whose right or interest in
any such land is affected in any manner shall, within three months from the date of
the publication of the instrument.. .submit in writing to the Minister, (a) particulars of
his claim or interest in the land; (b) the manner in which his claim or interest has
been affected by the instrument; (c) the extent of any damage done; (d) the amount
of compensation claimed and the basis for the calculation of the compensation, and
the Minister may, having regard to the market value or the replacement value of the
land or the cost of disturbance or any other damage suffered thereby, pay
compensation in respect of that land or make an offer of land of equivalent value"
(Section. 4-1).



'According to the State Lands Act, 1962, "where there is a dispute as to the right
or interest claimed by reason of conflicting claims or interests, or any person is
not satisfied with the compensation assessed by the Minister, the Minister may
refer the matter to the Tribunal" (Section 4-2). The Tribunal is established by the
President, in consultation with the Chief Justice (Sect. 3). [Note: the
1 992Constitution, which supersedes this earlier law, provides for juridical
resolution of compensation disputes. The Tribunal no longer functions.]
The State Lands Act, 1962 defines the terms cost of disturbance, market value,
replacement value and other damage (Sect. 7). "'Cost of disturbance' means the
reasonable expenses incidental to any necessary change of residence or place
of business by any person having a right or interest in the land." "'Market value'
means the sum of money which the land might have been expected to realize if
sold in the open market by a willing seller at the time of the declaration made
under section 1 of this Act." "'Replacement value' means the value of the land
where there is no demand or market for the land by reason of the situation or of
the purpose for which the land was devoted at the time of the declaration made
under section 1 of this Act, and shall be the amount required for reasonable re-
instatement equivalent to the condition of the land at the date of the said
declaration." Finally, "'other damage' means damage sustained by any person
having a right or interest in the land or in adjoining land at the date of the
declaration made under section 1 of this Act, by reason of severance from or
injurious affection to any adjoining land."
The Volta River Development Act. 1961, establishes the Volta River
Authority (VRA) and defines its functions and responsibilities. Part 4, Section 17
(2) (d) of the Act authorizes the VRA to acquire land necessary "for the proper
discharge of the Authority's functions." The Act (Sect. 28 (a)) further specifies, in
relation to lands acquired for Akosombo Dam, that 'the market value of any
property so acquired shall be the amount which that property might have been
expected to realize if sold in the open market by a willing seller to a willing buyer"
as of the date March 6, 1957.
The Lands (Statutory Wavleaves) Act. 1963, provides for entry on any
land for the purpose of the construction, installation and maintenance of works of
public utility, and for the creation of rights of way for such works.
The owner/occupier of the land must be formally notified at least a week in
advance of the intent to enter, and be given at least 24 hours notice before actual
entry. (An authorized person may enter at any time for the purpose of inspecting,
maintaining, replacing or removing any specified works [Section 5].) Any
damage due to entry must be compensated in accord with the procedures
established by the Minister (Sect. 6-1) unless the land is restored or replaced.
(In the case of highways, no compensation shall be paid, unless the land taken is
more than one fifth of the total holdings of an affected person; Section 6-3(b).)
Where a right of way must be established in the public interest, the President
may declare the land to be subject to such statutory wayleave. On publication of
a wayleave instrument specifying the area required, and without further
assurance, the land shall be deemed to be subject to wayleave. Compensation
is then determined and paid, with the right of appeal to a Tribunal established by
the President, in parallel with the Lands Act, 1962. (Again, appeal to the Tribunal
has, under the 1992 Constitution, been replaced by appeal to the courts.)



The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations. 1964, restates the
principles of the Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act of 1963, and establishes
provisions for Wayleave Selection Committees to determine the optimal routing
and to ensure that the selected wayleaves are consistent with town and country
planning. Any claim for compensation must be made "not later than six weeks
after" formal notification, and must be made on the requisite form (Section 8).
Any dispute over compensation can be submitted to the Tribunal. "The first
hearing of any matter referred to the Tribunal shall be held not later than six
weeks after the date on which the matter was so referred, and the Tribunal shall
give notice of any such hearing to all parties thereto in the appropriate form...
Subsequent hearings by the Tribunal shall be on such dates and at such times
as the Tribunal may from time to time direct" (Sect. 1 1). The complainant has the
right to be represented by a lawyer of his or her choosing (Section 12).
Volta River Authority (Transmission Line Protection) Regulations. 1967,
states that it is forbidden "to place, drive, tow, pull or carry any crane, jig, boom,
or any other object, under, over or near the transmission line, unless the
minimum distance from the conductors or any of them of such object is not less
than eighteen feet" (Section 1 [fI). VRA has interpreted this section to extent to
any object, including economic trees. The VRA does have authority (Section
1 [g]) to provide written consent to permit construction of "any building or structure
or carry on any kind of cultivation, farming, or farming activity within the right of
way"; such activity is illegal without such consent.
Provisional National Defence Council (Establishment) Proclamation
(Supolementarv and Consequential Provisions) Law .1982 (Section 43[1])
establishes a Land Valuation Board "responsible for --
"(a) determining all matters of compensation for land acquired by the
government, any organ of government or public corporation on
whatever terms;
"(b) preparing the valuation list for property rating purposes;"...
"(h) advising all organs of government on all matters of valuation of
interests in immovable property;"...
"(k) collating in a register all valuations conducted by the Board and
collecting information relating to land values throughout the country;
"(I) publishing in periodic official bulletins information regarding land
values throughout the country and any such information regarding
its valuations as it deems fit in the national interest;
"(mi) developing a recommended code of valuation to regulate the
procedures and practices for the rating of immovable properties."
"Any public corporation in existence before the coming into force of the
Proclamation shall continue to operate under the enactment by which it was
established," unless the Council otherwise directs (Section 441l]).
Finally, The Ghana Land Policy. 1999, provides guidelines and policy
actions for land use (e.g., agriculture, forestry, extractive industry, settlement,
infrastructure). These guidelines are aimed at enhancing conservation and
environmental quality, thus preserving options for present and future generations.
Key objectives of the Land Policy, which are relevant to POTL project, include:
protection of the rights of landowners, ensuring payment, within a reasonable
time, of fair and adequate compensation for land acquired; and promoting public
awareness at all levels and community participation in sustainable land
management.



Annex A contains copies of various of the pertinent legislation that constitutes the
legal framework for resettlement operations. Annex B presents the notification of
intent to acquire that was published for POTL in newspapers that circulate
locally.
VIl.  VALUATION AND COMPENSATION FOR LOST ASSETS
A.    Eligibility
All persons who are directly affected economically by the loss of residence, business,
land, or economic livelihood are eligible for compensation in proportion to the extent
of the loss, taking into account any special requirements of vulnerable populations.
Land is assessed at local market value. By law (State Lands Act 1962), land is
valued either as the "sum of money which the land might have been expected to
realize if sold in the open market" or "the amount required for reasonable re-
instatement equivalent to the condition of the land" at the date of the notification to
acquire is published. In POTL, land compensation is paid for plots with houses or
community structures. Agricultural land is not reimbursed because farmers can
cultivate the area in subsequent years.
Because VRA permits farmers to cultivate in the ROW plots once the transmission
line is built, agricultural crops are compensation for loss and damage, but not for
land. Agricultural loss covers both all economic trees within the ROW and all annual
crops. Landowners who cultivate the affected plot receive compensation for all
economic trees and all annual crops within the ROW whether or not the entire ROW
is cleared. When landowners and tenants or sharecroppers both have claims to the
affected plot, each receives the portion of the crop compensation payment to which
each is entitled under the sharecropping agreement, usually one-to-one. (Economic
trees that predate the tenancy agreement are credited to the landowner.) Women,
who constitute an appreciable number of the landowners, receive compensation in
their own names, just like men.
Residential loss covers both the house plot and all structures thereon. If only part of
a plot is taken, compensation is limited to those structures in the affected part of the
plot if the remainder of the plot is habitable and there is room to rebuild the affected
structure or structures. If it is not possible to replace the affected structures on the
existing plot in a manner acceptable to the residents, the entire plot is acquired, just
as if the entire plot had been affected.
If community property is affected, the owner or responsible authority is compensated
for the loss. Specifically, in the case of a school, compensation is paid either to the
community if they built and maintain the structure or to the Ministry of Education if
they built and maintain the facility. In the case of a cemetery, compensation is paid
to the community, and includes funds for locally appropriate rites. In the case of a
shrine, the project consults the local chief and elders in order to determine the
appropriate compensation necessary to conduct the rites necessary to relocate the
religious property.



B.   Inventory of Affected Assets
The VRA undertakes a field inventory of all affected assets, in collaboration with both
the Land Valuation Board and the villagers concerned.
In order to organize the asset inventory, VRA/RE holds meetings in each affected
village with local notables (e.g., chief, elders, opinion leaders) to inform them of
initiative. Subsequently, VRAIRE informs village authorities a day or two before the
asset inventory will be carried out so that they can alert villagers to plan to participate
in the inventory. On the day designated, the VRAIRE representative, the regional
LVB representative and the villagers together carry out physical asset inventory.
This involves walking the line, and noting for every plot the area affected if in food
crops and/or counting the number of trees for tree crops. Tree counts are estimated
from area planted, using assumed spacing distances, in areas with high, dense
weeds.
Where plots have structures, the inventory records the size of the plot and, for each
structure, the external dimensions of the structure, the construction materials of each
(floor, walls, ceiling, and roof, as well as doors and windows), and the general
condition of the structure. The inventory also records any infrastructure (e.g., animal
pens, borehole) along with necessary descriptive information.
Upon completion of physical asset inventory, each field surveyor recopies his field
notes into a book. The VRA and LVB field surveyors compare notes and rectify
discrepancies. VRA enters the information into a master file in Excel; data entry is
double-checked for accuracy. Subsequently, the VRA and LVB surveyors compare
their separate summary compilations and reconcile any discrepancies.
The inventory of physical assets is complete in that every plot is inventoried. The
VRA practice of going out with LVB technicians and the villagers themselves helps
ensure that the plot inventory records every parcel affected, and that the counts are
accurate and verified in the field. Certain details about a plot, such as the name of
the owner, any sharecropping arrangement, the precise number and type of trees
may have to be revised after consultation with the PAPs. Not all villagers are
available the day the asset inventory is undertaken, so some plots must be recorded
as 'unknown' ownership. Sometirmes the landowner or cultivator designates a
representative to attend the physical inventory, which can give rise to disputes over
asset counts with some owners. (The field notebooks do not usually record whether
the participating villager is the land owner, the cultivator, or a representative of either
the owner or cultivator.) VRA strives to resolve such situations as quickly and
amicably as possible. But in the POTL project, there was no instance of a cultivated
plot or house site that was overlooked during the physical inventory.
Table 1 summarizes the findings of the asset inventory, by type of impact for each
region. (Annex C presents the list of individual PAPs, their losses and compensation,
by village and region.) Table 2 similarly summarizes the losses of community
property.



Table 1:
Number of Project Affected Households*,
By Type of Impact and Region
Western        Central       Ashanti        Total
Region        Region        Region
Field Crops        284           139           227           650
Houses              7             8             4             19
Total      291           147           231           669
* The number of individuals affected may be estimated by multiply the number of households
by six (6), which is the average rural family size.
Table 2:
Community Property Affected,
By Type and Region
Western     Central Region  Ashanti        Total
Region                      Region
School              0             1             0             1
Shrines             2             1             0             3
Cemeteries          1             3             0             4
Total       3             5             0             8
C.    Valuation Methods
The VRA Real Estate department uses the Land Valuation Board (LVB) unit prices to
determine the compensation for agricultural crops and residential properties. (See
Annex D for the unit rates for crops and economic trees and for structures.)



LVB values land, structures, and crops (annual crops and economic trees)
separately. With regard to land, LVB consults with the Land Commission on recent
land sales of titled properties. In rural areas, where land is held under customary
tenure, LVB investigates the current market price of land, and verifies this price
information with indirect measures, such as informal payments to chiefs at the time of
the land transfer.
For structures, LVB determines replacement cost based on the current price of
building materials. In this method, calculating the amount of material necessary for
structures of different types provides a unit value per square foot that is multiplied by
the area of the structure to be taken in order to establish the value of each structure.
In rural areas, these estimated amounts are verified with local housing prices.
(Annex D presents the costing of the 20 structures affected -- 19 residences and one
school.)
LVB uses one of two methods to calculate crop values. For large estates and
commercial plantations, LVB uses the 'investment method,' which essentially tailors
the compensation to the productive life of the assets to be taken in that estates with
younger productive trees receive proportionately more than estates with older
productive trees. For small-hold takings, LVB uses a tree count and multiplies the
count by a standard unit value for that type of tree. In both methods, calculation of
the unit value is based on production techniques, yield and farmgate price
information collected regionally by the Ministry of Agriculture. (Annex E presents the
unit price list for crops and economic trees.)
LVB takes two other considerations into account in determining compensation. An
amount of up to 10 percent may be added to cover legitimate costs incurred by the
PAP in locating replacement land or structures (the disturbance allowance). In
addition, LVB adds an average of 20 percent to crop values in order to account for
inflationary price increases in the year or two that may pass between the time of the
site inspection and issuance of the LVB compensation amounts.
LVB maintains current valuation rates that represent actual market price at the time
of payment. VRA concurs in this view, that the Board and the Authority use realistic
rates in computing compensation amounts. If at the time of payment, the current
LVB rates are found to be uneconomic or out-of-date, the Authority will, in
consultation with all concerned government agencies, generate fair rates on the
basis of current prices.
Finally, for sensitive lands, such as shrines and communities, VRA negotiates with
the community to determine the sum necessary for propitiatory rites. (Annex F
presents the negotiate sums to relocate the shrines affected and to cut tall trees in
cemeteries within the ROW.)
D.    Negotiation of Agreements
Negotiation of agreements between the project authority and project-affected
persons is effectively limited to discussion of the physical asset inventory because
unit price information is not disclosed publicly.
Once the physical assets affected are inventoried and valued, VRA/RE, in
collaboration with the LVB, determines its offer to each affected person. VRA writes
a letter of offer to each claimant, and LVB prepares a Declaration Form (Form F) for
each PAP. The Form F, which lists the assets affected, is delivered to the PAPs at a



village meeting convened in their localities. The inventory of assets lost is given to
the PAP (or, read to an illiterate PAP, in a language he/she understands), who signs
the Form F to signify his or her agreement with the physical inventory.
Due to LVB stipulations, the unit price list for lost assets is not provided to PAPs.
VRAIRE does provide the unit price list to local notables on an informal basis. And, a
global estimate of the compensation amount may be provided to the PAPs,
especially when, as happened in POTL, compensation payment is made in more
than one installment.
E.    Compensation Payment
Compensation is paid by VRA to each PAP at a meeting in each of the affected
villages. The VRAIRE representative provides the list of affected assets and the
global compensation amount to the PAP (or reads it to the PAP if illiterate) to ensure
that there is continued agreement on the compensation sum. If so, VRA delivers a
cheque drawn in that sum on the corporate account to the PAP, who signs the
relevant papers signifying receipt of compensation in part or in full, as is the case.
VRA then collects the Form F, and the case is closed, unless a grievance has been
registered.
Vil. Assistance to Vulnerable Populations
Vulnerable groups at particular risk of impoverishment are the landless and semi-
landless, the elderly, and households headed by females. The resettlement plan
therefore includes land allocation or culturally acceptable alternatives to protect the
livelihood and living standards of these people.
VRA collects complete information for the physical asset inventory only. The focus
on the physical asset inventory without full complementary socio-economic
information on each affected family makes it difficult to assess the proportion of
vulnerable families in the affected population.
While the number of vulnerable people affected by POTL is likely to be small, such
people do reside in many communities even though the numbers of people in each
category have not been specifically studied. The POTL Environmental Impact
Assessment (Section 6.3, table 3, p. 13) indicates that 25 percent of the population in
the major project districts is 55 years of age or older (males: 24.4%; females,
26.8%). The EIA (Section 6.3, Arrangements for Land Use Table, p. 16) also
indicates that a significant amount of sharecropping occurs in the project area: while
almost half (48.2%) of the population own their own land and another quarter (24.4%)
cultivate land on loan to be used freely, almost a fifth of the farmers (17.2%) share
the market proceeds with the landlord after harvest while a few (2.6%) share the farm
produce. Finally, there is a high dependency ratio in the region: "About 2 out of
every 10 respondents (18.4%) have a number of dependents between 10 and 18
persons" (Section 6.3, p. 16). As the EIA notes, 'with such a high dependency ratio
among the affected communities, the impact of the project on families/households
and the entire community will be greatly felt if appropriate measures are not put in
place before implementation of the project" (p. 16).
The POTL project has put in place measures that help mitigate such impacts. These
measures are more effective for some crops than others. Specifically, the impact on
annual crops (e.g., cassava, maize) is temporary. These crops may be lost - and



compensated-during the year of line construction, but these fields can be planted
without problem in subsequent years. By contrast, some tree crops cannot continue
to be planted within the ROW once the transmission line has been built. For most
citrus (e.g., lime, orange) and fruit trees (e.g., guava, mango), this is not a major
economic issue in that no PAP has more than one or two such trees within the ROW,
so that it should be possible to replant these trees elsewhere. (The importance of
these trees may lie more in their contribution to family nutrition than in their
contribution to family income.) The major impact is likely to fall on tall plantation
trees, particularly coconut, possibly cocoa (if young trees are shaded by tall trees),
and oil palm (which reaches only 15 feet in height, so it could, possibly, continue to
be cultivated under the line).
IX.   GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Disputes over compensation and resettlement measures may be raised by PAPs
informally with local notables or VRA staff or, failing resolution at the informal
community level, formally with the Commission for Human Rights and Administrative
Justice (CHRAJ) and, ultimately, the courts.
Most questions involve disputes over the physical inventory counts. Although the
field -counts are generally accurate, it may be that some economic trees were
overlooked during the field count. Such oversights are typically brought to the
attention of the VRA staff, either the representative from the Real Estate Department
or from the project engineering staff. The VRA representative verifies the validity of
the complaint, and corrects the official count accordingly.
In the POTL project, disputes over unit prices have not arisen, in large part because
PAPs have not been provided the unit price list. Such disputes have arisen in other
projects, usually when a transmission line crosses a commercial plantation. In such
instances, the plantation owner engages an independent valuer to assess the value
of the crops affected and submits the independent assessment to VRA for its
consideration. The majority of such cases center on the age and cultural quality of
the affected crop. Average unit prices are usually acceptable when the plantation is
older and yields are declining; these unit prices may be disputed, however, when the
plantation is reaching maturity and yields are increasing. VRA, in consultation with
the LVB, decides each instance on a case-by-case basis.
PAPs may raise issues formally when informal mechanisms fail to redress the
concern. In one instance in the POTL project, a small group of farmers has lodged a
complaint with the Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice over the
delay in compensation and over the difficulty of cashing the cheques distributed
earlier for partial compensation. If the issue cannot be resolved at this level, the
aggrieved party has, in theory, access to redress through the judicial system,
although in fact judicial resolution is expensive and time-consuming.



X.      IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
The timing of resettlement should be coordinated with the implementation of the main
investment component of the project. Ideally, resettlement activities - land
acquisition, relocation of residences and businesses, as well as initiation of economic
rehabilitation activities, when required - are completed before construction begins in
an area so that the project-affected people are not further disadvantaged.
In the POTL project, engineering studies and construction preceded most
resettlement activities. The implementation schedule for the project is given in Table
3.
Table 3:
Implementation Schedule for Line Construction and Resettlement
Western Region           Central Region          Ashanti Region
Line Construction 
* Notice of Construction
(Notice in national dailies      July 01                 July 01                 July 01
and Gazette; village
meetings)                                                                  .-
. Clearing ROW          Oct 01(Prestea - Bogoso)          2002                   2002
* Line Construction              2002/3                  2002/3                  2002/3
* Energize Line                 April 03                April 03                April 03
Resettlement Activity
* Physical Asset Inventory  Sept. 01 - June 02      June 02 - Sept. 02      Sept. 02 - Oct 02
* Form F (Inventory)
Delivered to PAPs             Jan. 03                 Feb. 03                 March 03
* Valuation, VRA              June-July 02              Nov. 02                 Nov. 02
. Valuation, LVB                May 03                   May 03                  July 03
* Initial Compensation        End April 03             Mid-April 03           Early April 03
Payment Made
* Final Compensation          Oct. 03 (est.)          Oct. 03 (est.)          Oct. 03 (est.)
Payment to be Made                            ___



XI.   MONITORING
Arrangements for monitoring implementation of resettlement and for incorporating
monitoring results into management decisions will be developed during project
preparation and used during supervision. Monitoring provides both a waming system
for project managers and a channel for the resettlers to make known their needs and
their reactions to resettlement implementation. Monitoring and evaluation units
should be adequately funded and staffed by specialists in resettlement. In-house
monitoring by the implementing agency may need to be supplemented by
independent monitors to ensure complete, objective resettlement.
Projects with relatively limited resettlement impacts commonly institute an in-house
monitoring system within the project agency. In the case of POTL, VRA relies upon
its staff in the Real Estate and Engineering Departments, to keep track of land
acquisition, compensation, and grievances. VRAIRE maintains a complete set of
administrative records on asset inventories, payment receipts, and complaints. (LVB
maintains the file for the legal agreements on physical assets to be taken (Form F).)
Both VRA/RE and Construction Department representatives hear complaints on an
informal basis and report administratively on project progress.
XII.  COSTS AND BUDGET
VRA has made the necessary budgetary provisions to ensure that mitigation
commitments (including compensation), and monitoring programs can be
implemented effectively.
VRA will pay full replacement cost for assets lost. The initially approved budget
estimates are given in Table 4.
Table 4:
Original POTL Compensation Budget
(in Cedis)
Cost 2001        Cost 2002/03
Land under Right of       810,000,000        810,000,000
Way
Structures (and Other     300,000,000        500,000,000
Incidental Expenses)
Crops                    1,200,000,000     1,400,000,000
Economic Trees            500,000,000        500,000,000
Access Tracks               4,000,000         40,000,000
Total Budget     2,850,000,000      3,250,000,000
The actual financial cost of land and asset acquisition is provided in Table 5.



Table 5:
Current POTL Compensation Budget
(in Cedis)
Actual Cost 2003
Land under Right of Way *                      1,400,000
Structures                                   221,000,000
Crops and Economic Trees                    2,856,000,000
Access Tracks and Construction               490,000,000
Damages
10 % Contingency on Damages                   49,000,000
Total              3,6178,400,000
* Each of the 290 pylons requires 1 0/m2, for a total of 2,900/m2, at an estimated
average value of C 1,250,000/ha.
The 12 percent cost overrun, with respect to the original budget, is largely due to
much higher than anticipated claims for construction damage. VRA has committed
the funds necessary to meet its obligations for all costs under the project.
DISCLOSURE
This document will be disclosed in Washington, DC, at the World Bank InfoShop, and
in Accra, Ghana, at VRA headquarters.



a                                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
i
I
i
I
i
i
i



ANNEX A:
PERTINENT LAWS AND REGULATIONS



I
i
I
i
I
i
I
I
I
I
i
I                                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I



TkiiaHUNDRED AN~D TWENTY-FIFH
.. _ . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ . _ ...         ..   .  ......'X. - 7A -G v   - * 1--' ZJi\t.--- -
OF THE PARLIAMENT, OF THE .REPUBLIC-e
:_       ,     OFGHANA,              -
ENTMTE-D
THE STATE LANDS AcT, 196.                          Q.
AN ACT to provide' for the acquisitionl ofrland 'in the national
interest and other purposes conniecte te4iwi. 
DATE OH D ASSENT: 14th June,1962-
-  ~    Jff ENACTED by thie'President and the"Nati6iid.A~-S--E~--bly -in this
present PNrliamenit asembled as folloW~s :-
Acqisiiion.  1.(1) .Whenever-it appears to the Presgidentin lie-  Ubh nterest.
to oto.do, he may, by:.executive instru,ment, declare any lanid#6pcified 
in)  m the in-strument, other, than land subject to"the. Amnsation'
,                                  -   j.  :,y 
IG    -fa        Act, 1962 . (Act 123), to be land requi red. in`th_ublic
V%Vfilfnterest; "and accordingly on the making of th  sfurAishUb
1 ,      lawful for. any person, acting in that behalf and subjectt  ot'
I 0    -  Antice -  writing to enter the land so d Heclared for-ahy purpb,e -c-
dentail to t-he declaration so'made.
(2) An instrument made undcr the precelding uscto    a
:                                      ENTITLEDco     . g suscinmy
- contain particulars in respect of the date on which the'land so
declared shal be surrendered -and any other matter intcidenai or
conducive to the attainmnent of the objects of theinstrumentinicluding
an assessment in respectof the conipensatidn thatfmay bie.pid.
(3) On the publication of an instrument made under this
section, t--e land shall, without any further assuranc' e than' this sub-
section, vest irn the President on behalf of the'Republic,free from
any enctumbrance whatsoever.
2
r   ,  otc -nwrtngt ctr h-ln so delae for''nyp'rps ic-
a  @   denal t thedecaraton s mad.      . '.-4 .  . 



o  , T7 .~ ::i..,-'Zi:.V-,  .State Lands -Act; X62                      --'A "'t"A ' 125
..ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS .
Section
I 1 Acquisition.
2.- Publicati'on of instrument.
3. Tribunal.
4. Claims and compensation
*  K~~.    5. Leases and licences.
6.' Regulations,:
*         ~~~~7. Initerpretation.
8.;Repeals.
K  9. Saving.
., .                 .          - ......
3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tribnal



State Lands Act, 1962                   Act 125'.-'
2. A copy of the instrument made under the preceding section PublicaLion
shall,                                                       of
instrumcnt.
(a) be served personally on any person having an interest
*            in the land; or
(b) be left with any person in occupation of the land; and
.(c) be affixed at a convenient 'placo, on the land;' and
(d) be published on three consecutivo occasions in a
*   ^  . .  ...    newspaper circulating in the district where the land is
situate.
--  S (-1)-The President-rnay,-in consultation-with the Chief.Justice-Tribunal.
K.; X          by ~i.executive instrument, establish a Tribunal consisting of three
.persons one of whom shall be a Judge of the High Court who shall
be-.chairman.                              ...       ,    .
'(2). The decision of the Tribunal on any'matter referred to it
un'der this Act shall be final save that the Tribunal may reserve for
the.:consideration of the Supreme Court any question of law and
section 11 of the Courts Act, 1960 (C.A. 9) shall apply accordingly.
*                 " (3) The Prcsident may, by legislative instrument, and after
consultation with the Chief Justice, make Rules governing the
fu'nctions and procedure of the Tribunal.
4. (l) Any person claiming a right or" hvi-g an interest in any Claims and
^- . laud subject to an instrument made itnder"sectio6iil of.this A;ct or compensa-
'.w.hoso,nght or interest'in any such land'is affected in any manner liOfl
:;'sll, within three months from the date `of the publication of the
*- i,ns,trulment made under the said section 1, submit in writing to the.
-       -*.. .  .  .  Minister,    ..
' (a) particulars of his claim or interest in the land;
,, .(b) the manner in which his claim or interest has been
(  affected by the instrument;
(c) the extent of any damage done;
(d) the amount of compensation claimed and the basis
for the calculation of the compensation,
and the Minister may, having regard to the market value or the
replacement value of the land or the cost of disturbance or any other
damage suffered thereby, pay compensation in.respect of that land'
or make an offer of land of equivalent value.'
(2) Where there is a dispute as to the right or interest claimed
by reason of conflicting claims or interests, or any person is not
satisfied with the compensation assessed by the Minister, the Minister
may refer the matter to the Tribunal.
3



W~~               - - - - -              --   e         t              -. - A -   -
Act 125                       State Lands Act, 1962
(3) In assessing compeasitionutnder this Act no account. shalJ
be taken of any improvement on the land made within two years
previous to tlhe date of the'publication of the instrument made under
section 1 of this Act unless the improvement was bonafide and not
and   made in contemplation of acquisition under this Act.
Lcascsand   5. The President may grant a lease or licence in respect of any
licences.-  land acquired under this Act.
Regulations.  6. The Minister may, by legislative instrument, make Regulations
prescribing fees to be paid under this Act and for the better carrying  -
into effect of the principles of this Act.
Intcrpreta-  --7.--In-this Act', unless'th~e'cnxtotetcise requires,
*IOU.       " cost of disturbance" rmeans the reasonable expenses incidental
;  .'" ''' to :any nec~ cia;ge o,f residence or.plac' of business
by any person aviig   a right or interest in'the land;
"market value'" means' the`sum' of money which the land
4                                 r -might have been expected to realise if sold in the open
market by a willing seller at the time of the declaration
made under-section I of this Act;
"Minister." means the Minister responsible for lands;
"other. dama,ge",meansc.damage sustained by any person.
having.a right or interest in the land or in adjoining land at '
the date of-the--declaration made under section 1 of this: '
Act, by reason of seve'ranc6 from or injurious"affection to :
- .any adjoining lanid;.i  '         . -'.
''-'.', replacement value meaas the value of the land where there
isno demandormarkettforthe landbyreason of the situation
or of the purpose for which the land was devoted at the time
of thedeclaratio'n madeundersection 1 of this Act, and shall
be the amount required: for reasonable re-instatement
equivalent to the condition of the land at the date of the
said declaration.
Repcals.   .8. (l). The provisions of sections 4 to 18 of the State Property and
.            Contracts Act, 1960 (CA.'6) in so far as they relate to land shall cease
.            to have effect.
(2) The Housing Schemes (Acquisition of Land) Ordinance
(Cap. 85) is hereby repealed.
Saving.      9. Notwithstanding the repeal of the enactments specified in the
preceding section, any subsidiary. legislation made thereunder
and in force immediately prior to the commencement of thi-s' Act,
shall continue to have effect as if made under this Act.
Printed by the Govcrnmcnt Printing Department, Accra, Ghana
GP/A 1726/4,596/6/61-62
Price 2d.
I  .                             ,      ,                 '    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Act 41      t     |             Act 46      .   Volta River Development Act, I96I
Ac 4if
laterpref a.
Sectioi
24. Exemiiptioni 1rom income tax.
25. Governmcnt to re-imburse Authority for certaini measures.
26. Accounts and audit.
PART IV-ACQUISITION OF LAND AND RES-1TLEMENr MEASUtERs
|4                            927. Filling o0 the lakc and acquisitioi o01 lanid.
28. Compensation.
29. Resettlement measures.
30. Defraying expenscs iincurred under this Part.
PAIKT V-MISCELLANEOUS
31. Guaratltees.
32. Annual report.
33. Power to make regulations.
1 i                34. Protectioni of officers.
35. Interpretation.
36. Conmmencemcnt.
cnncn
cn(.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/21-
:     2
r
2~~~



I
I
I
I
I
i
i
i
I
i
i



-  -C                               Act 46
)           ~~OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE REPUBLIC. 
OF GHANA; |
I.s                     .l        '           , 
'THE VOLTA RIV'ER DEVELOPMENT ACT, 1961
AN ACr to provide for the establislunent of ni AAuthority charged             j
with the duties of generating electricity b'y means of the water
power of the river Volta, and by other means, and of supplying
electricity through a transmissioa system; for the constructionk
of a dam and power station near Akosombo, and for the crea-
tion of a lake by the damming of the river; for giving the Autho-
rity power to administer certain lands liable to be inundated and
lands adjacent tlhereto, and for dealing with the resettlement
of people living in the lands to be inundated; for charging the
Authority witli certain incidental responsibilities; and for
purposes connected with the matters aforesaid.
DATE OF ASSENT: ?60i Apr-il, 1961
Be rr ENACTED by the President anid thie National Assembly ini this           1
present Parliaiiient assembled as followvs:--
PART 1-TIIC VOLTIA R(ivEc ArIA  IT)I-I( 
1. There slhall be established aii authority to be called thlc Volta Establisih-
Rivcr Authority (referred to ini hiis Act Is the Autllority) chiarged  n orthc  i        , 
wvith tlhe duties and responsibilities licrciiafter,specifted.                .        .    .
r,'                       !        .,~~~7
*-                                                'I,,



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                              I
i
I
I
i
i
I
I



f ~       - .~, -.
Volta.River Development Act, i961                    Act 46
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I-TH8 VOLTA, RIVERt AUTHORITY
Seclion
'  .Establishment of the Authority.
3$ jr           2. Status of the Authority.
. .T  .         3.;Constitution of the Authority.
:;' .         4.,Members of the Authority.
s. Chief Executive.
:   6; Resignation and re-appointient of- memiibers.                    1
t  *~~~~ .7 Proceedings of the Autliority. 
iEmployees of the Authority.
[              9. Authority to iinstitute training programme.
PART 1l-FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF THE AUTHORITY
10. Primary functions of the Authority.
1. Flow of water and flooding.
12. Powers in relation to tranLsmission systeiii.
13. Health safeguards.
14. Authority to have local goveriinieiit functions and planning
powers over Akosombo towvnship and lakeside area.
15. Additional powers.
16. Researcli and records.
17. ricidental povcrs.
18. Autlhority to co-oper,ate with other public authorities.
19. Statutory powers to be cxercised consistently with this Act.
20. Directions to the Authority.
PART it-FINANCE
21. Authority to aim iat malkijig profit.
22. Borrowing powers.
23. Investment by the RepuLblic.



  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
, ,' , ifoll e ' A1~~~~~~~~~~,                           J
.---24. Exemptioii lrom income tax.
,-95- Government to re-imburse Authority for certain imcaisures.
26 Accounts and audit.               ,_.!_                          ..__
:,   .  PARTk IV-OF or LAND AND'ESL1rES . M                          ..ft.s.
U     -_______   ,. ,2. Filling1f the ,ak&               '
'-'   28. Compensation.
29. Resettlement measures.                                        ..
l   ;  - 30. Defraying expenses iiicurredv underiths?art.
-PAIL -V- 1I'CELLANEOuS
.3- CGuoamranemse.       -    c   .                                 : 
32 -Annual rep. ---
-j1:     ike                                          . P-    ---   ..,ower. t9.  ans
34.           o tcil  f offic& S.
35- Interpretation.   .         .
36. Conimencement.
*                                2~~~~~  *.~~~~~  ~ ~~  A~
3.I~5d~ 
1 ~~~7                                                 P.~



II    9~~~~~~~~~~~ 
UYI,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
)         ~~~~~OF TIlE PARLIAME".  0? TEt REPUBLIC
.1OF GHfANA
(1'4TrrLED
V #1 ~ ~  ~     
* - ~~~~ ~~~~~ta -I' ,- 
~~~~tyer~~~tdta4aannjI,an- b
trar~~sriijssiop ktr__
of a  a  an'~o  ~ flc  ~j' Akosjr~bo, aInd.fo. th"  a
Y POWt"rivdrror giiing theAu'to.
~itypowe  to  dmin stercertain  l'ands liable  to  be inlun a da d
lands  djacen   'hit,and  for  dealirj-_:with-the  resettle en
of Popl liii~ inthelands to be inundated; for. charging. the--'
Authony~t  "eai iidental - esp"onsibiljie -andfo
Purpose  Conect'ed;1i thtie niatters afotesaid.
DA&TE O AssENT; 26i1 April, 1961
Be rr NACTP  byte  President and  tile National Asscembly in this
present Par niek t assemibled as fol1o%vs:....
P A R T   I - T i *   V ' ! A R v i   L r z I . .~
.1.MTeresshaLi,b.~ establislhed till authority Iob aldteVlaLtbII
Rit e  A u h r t   r f r e   o i   hs  A ct  its  thle  A uthlority ch r d  cn~ r  h
with      ~~~~resp'ohsibili'ti ei'irciianaer speciried  !   ..
:A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
(1~~~~~~1
-x --x~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                    iI



Act .46                      Volta River Developnienit Act, 1961
Status or tiu  2. The Authority shall be a body corpobate with perpetual suc-
Authonity,  cession and a comrnon seal which shall be-lofficially and judicially
noticed, and may sue and be sued in its corporate name, and for and
in connection with the purposes of this Act inay acquire anid dispose
of land and personal property and enter into contracts and other
transactions.
u constitutlOA        3.. (1) The Authority shall consist. of a- Ocirnon,
or thie     .      tho Chilef 1Cocutivo appointed under section 5 ot
)uthority   .        this Acr -and six othcr persons ot whom Qne, wo
s)uaol htyeydoxperlce In financlal matters w.y be
appointed as finance hember, and two slAall be
A        A -1~        appoincod to reprosent major consumers or tho elec-
trical power to be generated -by tha Authority.
.--.           (0) Bubject to section 5 or thIs Act, the Chair-
.xn and othcr anbers of the Authority shall bo
appointed bythe Presidenr acting in acocordance with
tho advice or the Prime 1tlnIster.                       .   '
(3) At every meoting or the Authority atC Mich
he is prosent, the Chairman shall preside arJd In his
absence a  ecber elected. by the ieTibers present
fromf among themselves shall prQsIde.'
.-- - *. .~   -r-    *su   vJiaLv
than those appointed to reprcsent major.consumers of electrical
power, shall serve for the following periods, wvhich shall be specified
when they are.appointed, that is to say, two sucli members shall
serve for two years and the remaining two for onie year.
(2)YThe appointmenit of any suchi meinb:r may be terminated ai
any timiie by the Prcsideit if lie is of opinioii that it is liecessary i n the
interests of the Authority to do so.
''                 ~~~~~~(3) Subject to. the provisiotis of titis Act, the. termis aiid coiidi-
lions of appointment of such members shall be dctcrmiiied by the
President.from  time to time.       . __
*   Chlot Exeour.Iva    T(I) The Authority shall have on oft Icer to ba known
as tio Chif Efxecutive
|  ,  tt = -  >8   (2) The Chitef Executive shall be a person nominrted
.by the Neatlonal Liberation Council ord appointed
IA     c- L C b . W;LCD      by tho Authoricy, and shall hold off ico upon such
ter-os ard corditLIons as the Authority nay dotermine.
(3) Tlio Chief Executive shall devote'hls full tlme
to the afftirs of the Autiority.
(41) Subject to the general conrtrol of the Authority
on wettors    policy,.thel.Chief Exocutivo sis11 be
chargod with th} directWiui of the business of the
Authority, and of iLs adL.4nistration and organisatlon
and wlth the employment, control and dismissal of
all the Authority's staff ard workpeople.'
3. .Tho person holding the office of Chief EXecutive of the
Author;Ity lmmedlately before tho commencement .of this Caetre shall  ,
be deeo' d to have been duly appointed under section 5 'of the:.
principal enactnent as amended by this Deoree.
7'
-d~~... .                                                                 _F... 



Volta Rfver Deyclopijictft Acr, 1961          Act 46
-,                                                             v
.6. (1).Any mcmber, other than. thc .hicf Extcutivc, may ut Wicn2lionf
* *any' timc rcsign his appoint.mcnt by noticc in wvriting to thc Prcsident. re-appoin  4
(2) Every membcr shAll, on ceasing to bc a nicmbcr, bc cligiblc mcnt of       .
Lror rc-appointmcnt.     .         .                         ncnbcrs:.
Aniciidcd by         .
..  ,.   .   .  ;   ,   .          Act 95.     ' 
7. (1) The Autliotity may make, add to, inmcnd and revoke Procecding,
4.i nding orders, not being inconsistent With this Adt, to providc O 'Ile
* fo, the application of the AuUiprizy's sdaI lo legal documcnts, the Aulihori.y.
propq conduc.t.orfth .b sicss and or: h6 mcctinigs of the Autlhority                [
or   iiLi tlibc'includirig tihe manner.in whlich any mattcr
is to -bedetersni -d .n behalf of the-AXth'ority, and the standing
orders fo thcTfirni 6eing in force shall bc observcd by the Authority              .    ;
and its: committe's andpecm-be`rs.
.(2) A uorum of thn members of the Authority slhall be four.                       N
.The Chai?mai shall have-an original and'a casting vote.
(3) Thc validity of any proccedings of the Authority slhall 'not              '
be affectcd.by any:vacancy amongstUthc mcmbers thcrcof, or by zny
defect in thNc appointment of a memberJtficrcof.
8. (1) The Authority shall employ such staffland wvorkpcoplc as Enployccs
-may be ni'ccssary for the dischargc of its functions, on such terms of the
and conditions as it may thinik fit.                         Aulhority.           .
* (2) Iti i:ereby dcclared that thc terms and conditions referred.
toin su.bsctio&(l)nccd not be tlie same as-thosc rclating to thle
'Civil Scrvice.
9. TheAXutlhorityshall, so far as miay be consistcnt with.lthlC prOper Authority  '    |
discharge of its funictionis, institute arrangemcnts for the traininig of to.instluic
Ghanaian*s .iti;.pdAn inistrativ, tecliiicil. ipanagerial and othcr ',Ot,"' 
capaciics . wsIh ?viewv to securin' g thbcnefit of their knowvledgc and  1o               j
expcrience in thc conduct of tlhe Authority'% operations, anid with a
viCev to all branchEs of tihe Aulltority's activitics being, in duic coursc,
in Ghannian hands.
PART II-FUNClOrso ANt) DUTECS or TImIE AUTIIORITY                            I
10. (1) S:ubject -to the provisions of tIis Act it shall bc tlie duty of Prim.ry
the Authority to plan, cxccutc acid manage tlie Volta rivcr devclop- funceioN ofi
ment whiclitcompriscs-  .                     .              zthoriiy
(a) the gcncration of clectrical potvcr for the opcration of
an aluminium inidustry, and for general industrial and
domestic uscs in Glhana, by suchi ncans as the Autho-
. j rity may think fit, and in particular in the first instance,
.; by the construction and operation or a dam and
hydro-clcctric generating station in thc vicinity of
Akosombo:
1,               '                                                                         '. *.  ,
..  4.
"ft ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~       .,   t-' 



Act 46                   Voir4 Rivcr DC\clopn:iicmi iAct, 1961
(b. the construction and .opcration. of a transniissioi
system  for tlhe distribution of thc clcctrical power
grncratcd by thc Authority;
i,                            .  (c) the supply or thic clcctrical powcr gcneratced by thc
C,Xv *.1                              CAutlhority. to-                  .
(i> any Govcrnmcut dcpartment or public corpora-
tion rcsponsiblc for the supply of clectrical
powcrto.tlc public;
I. ,  .            _______      .j ii).thc township or Akosoinbo; and
I                     --   -   .--  -   _______________________________in _han a-_ -or_r
I.|:               .          *(iid)  any o.ther consumer i                     e
under any arrangements agreed upon between
the Government, the Authority and the
S '~ =.   i.1                        (d)Electricity Corporation of Chana;
(d) thic provision, wvihen aiid so far as practical, of facilitics
and assistance for the devclopmcnt of the latc as a
- sourcc of fish, and as a route for the transportation of
>. k..                                :. 'goods and passcingcrs, and, in any otlher inanicr; anid.
; j |;                       (c) the d.veloprncnt of the lakcsidc aj:ca for thc licalli :;nd
bi4,J( ;  :                              v wellIbcing or-thc inhabitants, anid 'coplc liviiig adjacciut
% .$;e ... 1 t . , ~~~~tlicerto.
Amendcd by    '(2) Thc Autihority may aIso owvn, maintaini, and op)^rLtc r.
N.L.C.D.   vcsscls or graft of aniy kind and size for the purposc ol tratisporting
211. ;     goods and;pAssengers along the lakc anid may chargc farcs for thc
iiW': "  .          said services.
Flow or     .11 (1) The Autlhority shall so control thc darn as to prevent,
g w *& looditiCrd            so far as is practicablc.-
looding. ^.(a.) the hariful pciictration of salt wvater up the River
V,olta to  greater dcgrce than wYas normal at minimnum
...   ,                       ; river flov prcceding the conttruction of the dam;
(b) the levcl ofthe lake from rising to a hcight grcater than
i' :  }: i                   280 fcct above nicant sea levcl; aind
(c) sucli a flov of watcr past thc.dam as may causc flooding
downstrcamn from the darni above thc levcls whiclh werc
iiornial prcceding the consrruction or the dain.
/2-, '  o                    t(2) The Autlhority shall taec all rcasonable mcasurcs to givc
warning ofpossible flooding from the lhkc or from thc River Volta   1
downstrcamn !Yrn thc dain.
Powcrs in    12. For-Ahe purposes of conistrucLing and operating the transinis-
! reation to  sion systemil rfcerred to in paragrnph (b) of section 10 or this Act,
sion syscn. or or prcvciiting damnagc or cbstructioni tlhcrcto, the Authorit-y
slhallihave.all the powvcrs of the ChierfEngincer sct out in section 3
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~6
dc          .tp     >    tt       
t:    +I;t                     t;>        
Ys.  .:                           .                                    .
V#;            ,C,9      R;'- 
* '-I.t              C   'LE      .      '.



Volta River Developmnent Act, 1961             Act 46
of the Electricity Supply (Control) Ordinance (Cap. 66), to be
exercised by itself, its workmen and agents, and be subject to the
limitations and the duties there provided; and every person who has
any estate or interest in any lands injuriously affected by exercise of
the powers conferred by this section shall be entitled to compensation
to be settled, awarded and paid in accordance (as nearly as may be)
with the provisions relating to compensation which are contained
in the State Property and Contracts Act, 1960 (C.A. 6).
1 8'' *t                    s- et*iIt @j .,g ~ i  .| @..I  , 4ze jt.ail&.utuc-
Lit4'IJ kJJIt.Ja.tsuU Wali the. Minister responsible for health, guards
and with local authorities, to safeguard the health and safety of its
employees and persons cngagcd on the construction of works referred
to in section 10 of this Act and their families and dependents, and
the inhabitants of Akosombo township and the lakeside area.
(2) The Authority shall, in and over the lake and the lakeside
area, and in the township of Akosombo, be the authority for
executing the provisions of the Mosquitoes Ordinance (Cap. 75), and
shall have the powers referred to in section 3 of that Ordinance; and
all amounts recovered under that Ordinance by the Autliority shall
be paid to the credit of the Authority.
14. (1) The President may by executive instrument make such AtuthoriLy to
provision as he thinks fit for cornstitutinig the Authority as the local have local
authority for the township of Akosomnbo and the lakeside area, and uOvcflffiCfnC
for applying to the Authority, in its capacity as such, and with such and plan-
modifications as may be exp-dient, the enactments relating to ning powers
local government.                                            Akosombo
(2) The Authority may, in consultation with the Minister and ovkeside
responsible for town and country planuing, exercise all the powers area.
of that Minister in relation to town and country planning in the
township of Akosombo and the lakeside area.
(3) The Authority shall take measures to enhance the natural
beauty of the lakeside area by the planting of trees and otherwise;
and shall be responsible for the development of Akosombo township
in such a manner as to prevent the growth of slum or other conditions
'likely to be injurious to the health or well-being of the inhabitants.
15. The President may on terms to be agreed between the Additional
Government and the Autlhority and for the better discharge by the powers
Authority of its functions under this Act require the Authority for
such period as he may specify to p rform any function of a Minister
or any public authority or any body of whith the Government is in
control or over which it has powers of direction, in relation to the
township of Akosombo an(d the l.akeside area.
7



Act 46                    Volta River Development Act, 1961
iRcscarch     16. The Authority shall witlh a view to facilitating present or
and records, future research or planniiig, mainlitaiin and preserve suclh records
relating to its functions as it sluall consider p.oper; and shall have
power to eagage in rcsearch, and to assist othcrs to engage in
research, in respect of any matter relating to thosc functions and
to publish such records and the results or any rcscarch in %vhich it
may engage.
Incidcntal   17. The Authority may carry on any activitv %%hi:h is reasonably
powers.    requisite or convenient for or in conn:ction witihtlhe-disclhr ge of
--its functions under this Act.
I         Authority to  18. In the discharge of its tunctions the Autlhority sil:ll co*dperatc
*         co-lhopother  fully with all.'Government depa:rtmcnts and agencies and -other
E  .        rpublic  public authorities.
i'   j;       ~~~~authorities.
Statutory     19. No person shall exercise alny statutory power or duty irncon-
powers to be 
exercised  sistently with the exercise of any powers or dutics conferred oni the
consistently  Authority by or under this Act.
with this
Act.
Directions   20. The President may after consultation with, the Authority,
to-the   -  .  
i. }Authority        give to the Authority in any matter of exceptional public importance,
-directions of a general character not being inconsistent witlh thle
provisions of this Act nor with the contractuil or othcr legal
obligations of the Authority as to the exercise by the Authority
of its functions u'ider this Act. and the A\utiority shall give effect
to any suc *directions.
PART Mll-FINANCCE
Authority to  21. (L) It shall be the duty or the Authority lo conduct its atFairs
aim at
..  sj.   gnaking    on sound commercial lines, and in, particular, so to carry out its
profit.    functions under this Act as to enisurc that, taking one year with
another, its revenues are greater than its outgoings properly
chargeable to revenue account.
;,   ,,                        (2) The Authority shall clharge to revenuc account all charges
which in the normal conduct of a business are proper to be charged
to revenue account, including in particular, prop:r provision for
depreciation of assets, or for renewal of assets, and in addition all
interest on borrowings. repayments to be made each year in respect
of loans incurred by the Authiority to the extent that suclh repay-
ments exceed provision for depreciation, and proper allocationis to
reservc.
8
~. :



Volta River Developinernt Act, 1961            Act 46
(3) Without prejudice to the power of the Authority to
cstablish appropriate reserves for replacements or other purposes,
the Authority shall establish and out of its profits make payments.
to a reserve for the purpose of expending its activities.
(4) Thc Authority shall fix the rates at which it supplies the
electrical power generated by it so as to ensure that it is able to
comply with the requirements of this section.
22. (1) In order to enable the Authority to meet expenditure of Bor*owiag
a capital nature (including provision for working capital) (or the powen.
discharge of its functions under this Act; and in particular for the
fihancing of the operations referred to in section 10 of this Act, the
Authority may borrow on such terms and in such currencies as may
be agreed between it and any lender, such-sums as it may require.
(2) The Authority may borrow temporarily, by way of ovcr-
draft or otherwise, such sums as it may require for meeting its
-current obligations or discharging its functions.
(3) The Autlhority may charge its assets, undertakinlgs and
revenues with the repayment of any money borrowed together with
interest thereon and may issue debentures, bonds or oth*r securities
in order to secure the repayment of any money so borrowed together
with interest there.on- and may do all other things necessary in
connectibn with or indidental to such borrowings as are authorised
by this section.
(4) The President may, from  time to tirne, prescribe the
maximum sums which the Authority may borrow under either
or both of subsections (1) and (2).
23. (1) During the ten years following the commencement of this invesLment
Act the Republic shall invest in the Volta River development such by the
sums, not exceeding thirty-five million pounds, as the Authority Republic.
may require for the discharge of its functions under this Act.
(2) The payment of the said thirty-five million pounds is Amcndcd by
hereby charged on the Consolidatcd Fund, and shall be made to the Act 95.
Authority in such instalments and at such times as may be agrced
betwveen the Minister respoiisible for finance and the Authority.
(3) By way of return on thc said investment the Authority
may pay to the Accountant-General, out of income remaining
available vhen the charges referred to in subsections (2) and (3)
of section 21 of this Act have been provided for, such suims as the
Authority* after consulting the Minister responsible for finance,
thinks proper having regard to its future financial requirements.
9
.,



Act .46                  Volta River Developient Act, 1961                      1 l
(4) When the Authority is of the opiniion that its financial     .
position justifies it the Authority may, by agreement with the
Republic, repay in such amounts and at such times as may be           |J
agreed part or all of the capital sum invested by the Republic under
the provisions of this section.
Amended by      (5) Sums received undcr subsections (3) and (4) shall bc paid
in the Consolidated Fund.
Erxemption  24. The Authority shall be cxempted from thc tax imposed by the
;fon cln, Income Tax Orcinance, 1943 (No. 27).
Governmcnt  25. The Republic shall pay to thc Authority the net cost of any
Authority  mcasurs undertaken by it under-scctions 13 to 15 of this Act thc
-   for coam  necessity for which sL not attributable tO lhe creatioti of the lake
Aeuthrit    eaue                   nihiiH
mwasures,  or other activities of the Authority.
Accounts    26. (1) The Authority shall-
(a) cause proper accounts and othcr records in relation
thereto to be kept;
(b) prepare an annual statement of accounts in such form
and containing such particulars as the Auditor-Gencral
may from time tolime direct, or as may be rcquired to
satisfy its undertakings or engagements.
(2) The accounts of the Authority shall be auditcd by an
independent auditor to be appointed annually by the Aulhority
subject to the appi oval of the Auditor-General, and the auditor shall  t
make a report in each year on the accounts audited by him. The
-remuneration of the auditor shall be detcrmined by the Minister!
responsible for finance and shall be paid out of the funds of the
Authority.
Amendcd by      (3) The Autlhority's financial ycar shall cnd on the last day
Act 95.   of December in each year, and the period betwccn the comnencc-
. ment of this Act and the last day of December, 1962 shall be the
Authority's first financial year.
-     PART IV-AcQuISITION or LAND ANL) REsEIrFLENIENW MASUIHUS
Fillingof   27. (1) The Authority slhall, upon the completionl of the dam,
the lakc and so operate the dam as to cause the lake to fill by the accumulation
acquisition
or land,  of wvater in the arc it upstrcarm of thc dam.
Amended by      (2) The National Liberation Counicil shall cause to be
N.L.C.D.   acquired lands which in thc opinion of the Authority:-
211.               (a) may require to be inundated by the filling of the lake
together with any other land not extending beyond
one mile from the shorcs of the lake at its maximum
fill;,
10
1' 



Volta River Developinent Act, 1961              Act 46
* (b) may be required for tEle development of Akosombo
township;
(c) may be required for the usc or persons beiiin resettled
as a result of the inunidationii of their lands by the
filling of the lake;
<    (a  are necessary to acquire for the proper discharge
of the Authority's funictions.
(3) All lands acquired under paragraplis (a), (b) and (d)
of subsection (2) of this section shall inmmediately after their
acquisition vest in the Authority without any further assurance
than this subsection  free from  any . incumbrances wha-tsoever U-r
and the Auth:oiiiy. shall have power to sell,. transfcr, exchange,  i
let;.or:demise or otherwise dispose of all or any of them to or with-
l any p.erson and-ona such-.terms as it shall consider necessary for
the proper-disclofg6 of its functions.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment
'under which the samc were acquired all lands falling under
both or either of the descriptions set out in paragraphs.(b) and
(d) of subsection, (2), of this section being lands which have been
acquired at any time before the commciceincnt of this Decree
and vested in the Nationial Liberalion Counicil irnmediatcly becfore
such commcncemeint arc hereby vested in the Authority and shall
bc subject to. the.po'wers conerred on the Authority by subsection
(3) of this section.
+(5) Any land acquired under paragraph (c) of subsection
(2) of this section may be transferred, -exchanged, let, demised
or otherwise disposed of by the National Liberation Council
to or with any person whether or not that person is included
among the persons being resettled and upon such terms as may
b,cnecessary for- the: promotion of the well-being of the resettle-
ment areas and the inhabitants of those areas.
(6). No legal proceedings shall lie against the Authority
as a result of the inundation of any lands caused by the filling
of the lake.
28. The provisions of the State Lands Act, 1962 (Act 125) (relating Compens-;-
to the acquisition of land) shall, subject to the following and such tion.
other modifications as may bc required by the provisions of this Amended by
Act, apply to all lands acquired under subsection (2) of section 27:- 211.
(a) the market value of any property -so acquired shall
be the amount which that property- might have been
expected to realise if sold in thie open market by a
willing seller to a willing buyer on the sixth day of
March, 1957;
*                           11~~~~~~~~~~~~I



Act 46                   Volta River Developmett Act, 1961
(b) compensation may be paid in money or in tile case
of lands acquired under paragraph (a) of subsectiou
(2) of section 27 in non-monietary assistanice towards
settlement or both and no person shall be entitled to
dispute the compensation offcred to him  by reason
only that 'it is not in mnoney, whether in whlole or in
part;
(c) lands subjcct to the Administration of Lands Act. 1962
(Act 123) may be acquired under this Act."
* Rescltlc-  29. Tnie Minister respornible for social welfare (referred to
mcasurcs  ~in this section as the Ministcr) shall be charged with the duty of
mcasurcs.
Amended by taking all reasonable meauirces -to assit in the resettlement of thle
N.L.C.D.  people inhabiting lands Uable to be inundated and lanids adjacent
; 11J       thereto which are needed by the Authority for .thc discharge of
its functions, and it shall be the responsibility of the Minister to
ensure, so far as is practicable, that no person suffers undue hard-
ship or is deprived of necessarQ public amenities, as a result of his
resettlement.
Defraying    30. Expenses incurred in pursuance of this Part of this Act slhall
incurred   be defrayed, as to the first three nfillion pou'nds by the Authority, as
under this  to the next million pounds by the: Authority and the Government
Part.      equally, and as to any excess over four million  pounds by  thc
Government.
PART V-MISCELLANEOUS
Guarantees.  31. (1) In the niame and on behalr of the Rcpublic, the President
may. in writing guarantee the perforrnance of any obligation under-
taken by the AuLhority.
(2) Moneys payable under any. such guarantee are hereby
chargcd on the Consolidated. Fund.
Annual       32. The Authority shall annually, nut later than six nmonths after
report.    the end of its financial year, present to the President a report dealing
v             ~~~~~generally with the activities and operati;ons of thc Authority durinlg
the preceding financial year and contain;ng:-
(i) such information with reg7ird to the procecdings and
policy of the Authority 'Is the Authority considers
may properly be given without detriment to the
interests of the undertakiig of the Authority; and
(ii) a copy of the statement cf accounts referred to .in
section 26 of this Act, togither witli a copy of thie
report made by the auditor on that statement or on
the accounts,
1                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
*1.   _..



. Volia. River Developnment Act, 1961                 Act 46
and the report shall'not later than seven months after the cnd of the
Authority's financial year be laid beforc the National Assembly.
33. (1) The 'Authority  may, by legislative instrument, make Powcr io
regulations-                                                      rcgulahiolns
(a) prohibiting, restricting or regulating the use of the
lake and the lakesidc area;
(b) prohibiting, restricting or rcgulating the abstraction
of water from the River Volta or the lake otherwise
than for the purpose only of obtaining water for
domestic use in any village, town or house situate
within the catchment area of the Rive'r Volta;
(c) for the pro.tection of any transmission lines erected
by. the Authority or any works or apparatus connected
therewith;
(d) imposing peinalties oii persons trcspassing on any land
in the o.ynership or possession or the Authority;
(e) prohibiting, restricting or rcgplatinig the movemenlt or
motor or other traflic on or in thle viciniity of the dani;
(f) for the petter dischargc of the Authority's duties under
section 13 of this Act; and
(g)..genAermlly for. the purpose of cnabling the better dis-
charge by the Authority of its functionis under this Act.
(2) Any regulations made under this section may, in addition
to the penalties which can be imposed by virtue of section 9 of the
Statutory Instruments Act, 1959 (No. 52), impose in the case of
continuous offences, a fine of G5 for each day'during which the
offencc continues.
(3) In lieu of prohibiting, restrictilng or regulatiing any
activity, regulations made under this scction nlay'prohibit, restrict
or regulate -such activities without a licenice to be granted by the
Authority. Such regulations may prescribe the forms to be used
and fees to be paid for suchl liccnces. an(I may prnvidC rfr the-
dclcttiui    ti rlie Itower Ito z..   ut i wucc.  I ' :t l ;;1 u I tI rwut 
(4) Proceediings for olrciices a-ga1i1ust auty regulations "iu;ad
under this section shall not be instituted except by the Attorelcy-
General, or by, or wvith the consent of, the Authorily.
34. No matter or ';thing done by any ofricer or: employee of the Protcctiouu
Authority shall, if the matter or thing be done bona fide for the of ofrlccrs-
purpose of executing any provision of this Act, subject such officer
or employee or any person acting by his directions, personally, to
any civil liability.
13



Act 46                    Voltn Rivce Developmenr Act, 196)
Iuterprcla-  35. (1) In this Act unless the conitext othckvisc. requircs-
tiofl.           "abstract" includes divert, or by any .means cause to flov;
"Akosombo townsVjp:.' miieanis suchI area:`as the Prcsidet
i*. ay; by exccutivc jnstruinmet specify in that belalf;
"the dam" nieans the dani referred to in paragraph (a) of
section 10 of this Act;
"thel lakc" means the lake to be crcatcd .as a result of the
construction of the .dam, as the :-vateri thercof extenid
-     :fromn time to time (includirig any --islands therein);
"the lakesidc arca" meanis such of the lands referred to ii
paragrit (a) of subsectimon (e bgof section 27 of this Act
as are naga for t(a) o ifsu   being comprised in 27hf lake;h
"the river Volta" means ilic followvirig rivers so far as they
are within Gliana, that is to say, the Volta, the Black
Volta, the White Volta, the Red Volta,.and the Oti rivcr,
aand includes all rivcrs, streams and watercourses which
are .tributaries wlhetler direct or,indirect of any or the
aforesaid rivers, or whose waters flow directly or indirectly
inito, the lake, but does niQt iniclude aniy part of the lake;
"sul)ppy" in relation to electrical power includes minainitaiiing
potential, wlhether or not thc power so-supplied is takncii.
* () For the purposes 'of the Rivers Ordinance (Cap. 226),
and any othey pnactment the lake sliall not be deeimied to be a river;
and section l0:'pf the Rivers Ordinance shall inot apply to any part
of the River Vdlta upstrcam of the lake.
(3) Offic'ers of the Authority shall, for the purposes or the
Criminal Code, 1960 (Act 29) anid the Criminal lProcedure Code.
1960 (Act 30) bc.deemed to be p)ublic olriccrs.
Comuncncc-   36; This Act shall coiilc inl;o force oni such day as thc President
mflcnt.    may, by legislative inistrumiienit, appoint.
PRINTED DY TIIE GHANA l'UULISIIING CORPORATION (PRINTING DIVISION)
ACCRA.-rFfMA, GIIANA
GI'CIA42I2.00011169.,
i'ricc, 12Np



   lL    ... P st  . . . w  F    .  .          w .  4     - w - e 
;, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
Act L8-
1'HB ,HuIPuDY AND EIGHTY' SI)XTH-
.. .. : . .... . _,,, ,           _1963  : ._'..;,..
~~~* kc-4.., -Tm.ws .
7i '                         n '3  :    fo th*
AN Acr to pvdefrentr.y,on an       adfrte purpose o      h
constrcti9tof," installati'o"n and maintenance 'of works -of,-.public,
'utility~,and f,.or the cration ofihso wy and othier-.mifa~r
ri?hts in-: res~pect of- su-ch works and for pupsscneted
with the maiitters afores'aid.
...ATE* .'OF ASSENT: 16th July, 1-963
BB r_ '-     2thTPesidert and the National             this t -
.-pr,s nt-        ass *s*  *' olows:-
Cr'eationi of .1(l   .t;PedetjsfheOiflQi tUhtLit-ii- n heu'`
Etitutory  ~ ~ ~~~~~     ay~~-Jr-;o ther           1tib        ..II
T  4~~ '                         p -i-*-: ,- ! . ,,- 
siny ilar~gi   e~a
-;   -tf, wb  1963i                     -:
~I' 1Wi       he may.    j4bj`tii
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ re
AN ..a  to p      1ovid fsr u et:.  deyla-re the tan  o  o
-.MStftntrl      bjecU ta o a'sc statutory wa y w oe
t creii-dA the pu'blicationi of a wayleave wnst  ent-laridnitha
- -out-fuith      de--the-lAnd-shall be deemed- to- b6i   a -  -
__



";''
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963            Ad      _
wayleave which shall, in accordance with the terms of the instrument,
enure to the benefit of the Republic, any statutory corporation
spccificd in the instrumcnt, or the public generally.
(2) A wayleave.instrument shall contain the following parti-
culars, that is to say-
* -  ~ta) a description (wit measurements) of. the JaLaffected
-  by the statutory wayleave together with a plan showing
the position of the wQrks donstructed thereon;
(b) particulars of the person or body for- whose benefit the
wayleave is to enure; and
,(c) such other particulars of the said works as the President
-thinks necessary or expedient to include in the instrument.
(3) A copy of every wayleave instrument shall be served on the
owner or occupier of the land affected by the statutory wayleave,
and if neither the owner or occupier can be found shall be posted in
a conspicuous place on the land and published in a newspaper
circulating in the locality.
(4) Any land subject to a statutory wayleave shall (notwith-
standing any rule of law) continue to be subject thereto until the
wayleave is terminated in accordance with regulations made under
this Act.
2 (1) A statutory wayleave may be created in respect of any of Wo.::s for
the following works, that is to say-  .which sa!-
(a) any highway; and      .    -                          v'>
(b) any other structure or works for the purpose of, or in
connection with, any public utility service;
any such works being hereafter in.this Act referred to as "specified
works".
(2) Anuy statutory wayleave created for the purposes specified
in paragraph (a) of the foregoing subsection shall, unless the contrary
)   . intention appears in the instrument creating the wayleave, be deemed
*to include the purposes specified in paragraph (b) of that subsection.
(3) In this section the expression " public utility service " means
any service provided by the Republic, any local authority or state-
>    tory corporation; for supplying electricity, water (for any purpose)
or gas, or for supplying sewerage, transport or telecommunication
faciities or facilitics connected with tthe-operation of .'any. port,
railway, tramway or airport.
3. (1) With a view to determining whether any land is suitable i.i, , of
for the construction of any specified works, any public.officer or 0CLA-y LJ
other person acting on behalf of the Republic, any local authority or
statutory corporation may, if authorised by or on behalf of thc
3



!   wAct 186     Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963
x                Minister with the agreement of the appropriate Minister (any person
sb autborised being hereafter in this Act referred to as an "authorised
person") and subject to subsection (2) of this section, enter upon any
land for the purpose of surveying that land.
(2) Before entering on any- land in purstahce of the foregoing
-subsection the authorised person shall give to any person in occupa-
tion of tha.t land not less than twenty-four hours notice of his pro-
posed entry; and the notice shall contain particulars of the land to be
;surveyed, the purpose of the survey and of the works proposed to be
constructed thereon.
(3) Any Minister having functions under this section may
.delegate those functions.
Rights of    4. (1) Subject to the provisions of this section an authorised
entry for  person may enter on any land for the purpose of carrying out any
csatr'cti *specified works if-
(a) he has given not less than one week's notice in writing
to the owner or occupier of the land of the proposed
entry; or
(b) where neither the owner or occupier of the land can be
found, has posted a.notice indicating the date of the
-       * proposed entry (being a date not less than one week
after the posting of the notice) in some conspicuous
place on the land.
:           (2) Any notice given to any owner or occupier or posted on
any land in pursuance of the foregoing subsection shall contain
particulart of the land to be affected.by the&proposed works and
:  '  particulars bf those works, including their position by reference to a
plan.
(3) Any person who wilfully obstructs an authorised person
in .the exercise of his rights under this, or the last foregoing, section
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
riot exceeding fifty pounds or to a term of prisonment not exceed-
ing three months or to both.
.Rights of   5. An authorised person may at any time enter on any land
n Letry for  for the purpose of inspecting, maintaining, replacing or removing
inspection,
maian tC-  any specified works.
nance, etc.
g ,Compensa.7 - 6. (1) Where any person suffers any loss or damage as a result of
the carrying out of auy survey under this Act or as a result of the
*-installation, construction, inspection, maintenance, replacement or
removal of any specified works that person shlall, save in so far as
the loss or damage resulted from or arose out of the acts of that
person, his servants or agents, and subject to the provisions of this
section,- be entitled to compensation of an amount assessed by the
4



Lands (Siatutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963             Act; c   I
Minister in.resp;cU of such loss or damage; and in assessing such
compensation the Miniister may take into account in reduction
thereof any amount by which a person's land has increased in value
-as a result of the installation or construction of the works.
(2) Any claim for compensation under the foregoing sub-
section shall be made. to the Minister in tlie prescribed form not
more than three months (or such longer period as the Minister may
either generally or in any particular case direct) after the date of the
declaration mnadeTby the President under section 1 of this Act.-.
(3) No person shall be entitled to any compensation under
this section for any loss or damage if-
(a) in the opinion of the Minister-
(i) where the alleged damage is to land, that land
has been sufficiently rcinstated; or
(ii) where the alleged loss arises out of the depriva-
tion of the use of any land, the person alleging
the loss has been offered other land of equivalent
*va.lue,;
(iii) where the alleged damage is to movable property,
that property has either been replaced or
sufficiently restored; or
(iv) the" works constructed do not substantially
interfere with the enjoyment of the land;  I
(b) where the alleged loss arises out of the construction of a
highway, that construction does not deprive the owner of
the parcel of land affected thereby of more than one-fifth
of the parcel and the remainder of that parcel continues
to be suitable for use for the purposes for which it was
being used before the highway was constructed.
(4) Where any person is dissatisfied with the amount of
compensation assessed by the Minister under this section, but in no
other case, the matter may be referred by the Minister to a Tribunal
established in accordance with the next following subsection.
(5) The Tribunal shall consist of three persons appointed by
the President, following consultation with the Chief Justice, and one
of those persons shall be a Judge of the High Court who shall be
chairman of the Tribunal.
7. The Minister may, by legislative instrument, make regulations- Regulations.
(a) providing for all matters relating to the procedure and
functions of the Tribunal established under this Act; and
(b) generally for giving effect to the provisions of this Act,
and any regulations made by the Minister may, without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing words, impose charges upon any
5



Act 186                Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963
person or make provision for the payment of fees to the Ministet
or to any person appointed loy him, and may.make.provision for
the termination of any statutory wayleave and for all matters
connected therewith.
jItcrprcta-  8. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
*  tion.  expressions have the meanings hereby assigned to them respectively,
that-is to-say-
"the appropriate Minister" means the Minister responsible
for the works concerned;
"highway " means any road, street, path, pavement or
square and includes any bridge or other structure
associated therewith;
"the Minister " means the Minister responsible for lands;
"specified works" has the meaning assigned to it by section
2 of this Act;.
".statutory wayleave" has tile meaning assigned to it by
secaion 1 of this Act;
"transport " includes transport by canal, by overhead cable,
conveyor or rail, or by pneumatic dispatch tube or by
pipe line;
"wayleave instrument " has the meaning assigned to it by
section 1 of this Act.
)ther enact-  9. This Act shall not be construed as in any way being prejudiced
nents relat- by any other enactment relating to the entry on, or the acquisition
.ntryon,  of, any land for any purpose whatsoever.
*nd acquisi-
ion of.
tnd.
*~~ ~     ~   ~~        ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '  I 
Printed by the Govcrnm ent Printing Department, Accra, Ghana
GP/AI526/4,330/7/62-63
Price 4d.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
i
i
i
i
i
I
1



L.I. J34.
LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
-        PART I-GENERAL
Regulation
1. Requests for creation of statutory wayleaves.
2. Plans, etc.,'required to be enclosed with wayleave requests.
3. Wayleave Selection Committees.
4. Statutory Wayleave not to be in'consistent witbh town and
country planning.
5. Notices under section 3 (2) of the Act.
6. Notices under section 4 of the Act.
7. Service, etc., of wayleave instruments.
8. Compensation.
PART Il-TRI3UNAL
9. Secretary to the Tribunal.
10. Service of documients furnished to the Tribunal.
I h Dates of hea4ring.
12. Representation.of parties.
13. Evidence,,a,nd p'rocedure.
*         14. Requiremnts of -sction 6 of the Act. 
PART M4ITnI&INATION OP STATUTORY WAYLEAVES
.V 16.,- Proce,d)      nation.



I
I
I
i
I
I
I
I



a.~;ai"-'    LAATDJm (STATUTORY     WA YLE  A J) REGULATIONS, 1964
/ '.-X.-.<at ' - s i   ,NeX'ercise of th6 powers cnfcrred -on the- Minister by section 7 of
.-iUt6ryWay1eav '-A ti;1963 (AvtI86),tlheseRegula-
*   -h-- - *  tion .a de tliiseleye'th day of January, 1964.
-                            t ;>, S;;0.: : >; PST I GENERAL
.f. < t; & or, : Sect to -the provisions .of paragraphs (2) and (3), any
2             r           recornmendation to be -made to-the President that -a
* $2wnyicacs ,,!  zr3rMYay1ea-e .be created (rderc-rel .to-;liereinaftcr as al " way-
- -                   i     snder section 1 of ;the A,ct (which relates to the
4       .     im     4lyie.ave instrumen-_ by the Prcsident in the public--
! . <w  ;in,  hJl V.made to the Minister re.spoiisible fpr Lands (lherein-
..*> j wt<z.-z!;*M.;X;t  SI  L-t' ,as" the Minister, ). by the - Minister responsible
.         cyt4   c atef9  | pZdf:iorks iii respect of-which the statiltory wvayleave is  CQ
j';;- *  *.  .t.8ylh erc spccified works are being undertaken by or oni behalf
!.~,. *> .  -  .    a.n     Counci[ (as defined in section 150 of the Local
j ' ',G'<,,,'' ,,overnment Act, 1961 -(Act 54), or
.             a,S ,  ..  -~,.  -'; (b) a -statutory,c6ipor.ation,
l~~~~~~~~~~~ ... ,o7.X:;aN^e;cuesshatll :,saeo  b.lfof -thc C6obicil by the
" RIw. :< egiofJ;oi'ssibner.after cbnsut1tion ;witoh the Minister- res-
.r 4Vponsib for Loei iovet iient:and't1i9 Ministerrcspo4sible for;thc
..specffledcc orks, and on behalf. ofthc St itutory corporation by tie
*1+1'* .~ fiMrinisters responsible for the Corporation afrer. consuiltationi wvith
,i. ' ^^g;,..i 8 thc 1Aiter responsiblc for the specified  odks.
* ;:-  3) ;Thc Minister may, by noticc published in the Gz-etuc, anid
: ; UpOil air^cquiest by thc Minister resp.usible for Local Goveriment
niade after consultation 'witth thc R&egional Cominissioncr, or bv
j~  . - /-the-Mipist,cr, iesponsibleifor a staltuitory corporatiou, as - the -case
i .nay9 ,.uthorise any. -Colincil or any statutory corporation to
.. : mal  I wayleaverequests direct to the Millisr.
4.qans ct, t,J 2. (1) Any waylcave request shall-. '
* ,Ao}Q'  ' % 9 k,i( 5) .be 'acconipanied by a dcscription and a plan (as mcu-
cnclbcdY        - -. -'tioned in section 1 (2) of the. Act) in the scale of 1/2500
jt.:icao  --;e tilC-c         e statutory waylea'cvis to be created overlaild
rcqu-t               iiinhabited loca,lities or over;cultivatcd landl, or' ill alny
other schle.approved by the JMinistcr rcsponsible for
-    *..     S      -uyeys where- 
* -;;I<X.?'-*:.e5a%.;J' '; .-,<;' -.P (i) such wayleave is to bS c creatcd over uninha-
'' p tid orUncultivated land, or
i..i)(thiJPh,inister respoiisibMe for Survcys ccrtiries
' ' .  - a'.  r *. - *  -;.t<ffit; v t ' in x gthlt tic makinig of a plani in thcsn,lc
~ ~' ~ ~ of 1/2~O0.isi asibke; aud
(   o    n ?parzI-  - ticul r   th   "tob structc&of-
__________.  :  ,: ,.;j,tlxy ures to-bc take n,hibd of i'any ri1iots of'
Isstucd.l 2fJ4j6S corporLainijg a mcn t emenw iado by L.I. 3'16 [RI' 911
* C  s  *   ;l    eVi    *  -t W ; --. -'
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,
;e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;f
j ' * - *-Xtze*v*i".':



-X:                             3                              LT 334,
J;       : LANDS (ST4TUTORY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
::  '. ''_members of the public to pass under, over or across the
l .             .; ....; . l.ad, when it becomes subject to the statutory waylcave.
r *'^,                  * (2)- . lan referred to in paragraph (l) (a) of this regulation,
t I  -*'shaU beprepared-
i            a      (i) bYa person referred to in section 6 (1) of the Survey
Act, 1962 (Act 127), or
i *2j 9,J#'--  o (ii)oto the satisfaction of the Minister responsible for
i  .:Surveys if prepared by another person.
. (3) Where it is not feasible to show the wayleave on the plan
Xotfierw.is'e thlanby .a singlc line such line s'lhall'be deemfed to be the
centre': line of the wayleave and the width of the 'wayleave
c';z   .shall be endorsed on the plan.
* '     .   3 (.1)J.The Minister.responsible for the specified works may prior Waylcavo
-to the fiiaking.of a wayleave request, and if he thinks it fit so to do, Scicction
anZd within such terms of reference as he may determine in writing_ Commiittees.
(a) request the Regional Conmmissioner t6 appoint a
Wayleave Selectioni Committee (hertinafter referred to
.as the " Committee "), or
'        - r(b)appoi-nt a Committee himself, or
(c) ..4delegate to. a Council or to a statutory corporation  .                 ..
powers to appoint a Committee.
(2)'Where a Committee has' been appointed, the minutes of
.         its meeting,'.including afy recommendations. shall be enclosed with
.x  .  -0the wayleave' request to the Minister.
(3).Where a Committee is appointed it shall consist of such
persons (one .of whom shall be appointed chairman and another.
... .'; secretary'and. both of whom shall be public officers) as the Minister
. ' -  responsible for the specified works, or the Regional Commissioner
, .'''. or.the' Counicil, or the statutory corporation thinks fit, but in each
.case't'wo oft.the persons shall be public officers representing the
.-...> i.':Minister,'responsible for. Lands and the Minister responsible for
.-Town and' Country Planning respectively.
4 (1) The Minister shall not make a recommendation to the Statutory
Pie'sident that a statutory wayleave be created, unless the plans Waylcaves
. 4- '   'referred to in regulationi 2 of these regulations-         notstcnt
(a) 'are not inconsistent with any town or country plaii in wi h towix
force, .or                                       pland country
(b) (i) where there is no such plan, or
(i) where a Committee has not been appointed,
are approved by the Minister responsible for Town
and Country Planning after consultation with the
Minister.



4
(SOATUTcYRY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
(2)- Paragraph (1) of this regulation shall not apply where a
wayleave request is made in respect of works which have been
completed or commenced prior to the date of these Regulations.
l : oiiccs'' " 5. A notice of entry on land for the purpose of the making of a
der. 3(2) survey to determine whether the land is suitable for the construction
so the Act.  Of the specified works-
*,> ,-. ;F'W>i  ' t(a) may be given by the authorised person verbally to the
person in occupation of the land, or
'7oJ. ;.'-,.';'ffij,4 . , . , .(b) where the person in occupation is not available on the
land, shall-. be- given in. writing in the appropriate form
specified in the Schedule hereto, by way of posting of the
notice on the land to be surveyed.
':  N    .. '     :.,6. Any notice of entry on land for the purpose of carrying out
,under~ 4. :specificd works shall be given in the appropriate form specified in
- .q  3ctIc of 0  th    edule hereto, and an affidavit by the authorised person, that
the requirements of section 4 (1) of the Act have been complied with,
! - shall be sufficient proof of such service or posting.
[   ~Sc mrficc, ctc.; . 7. Service or.posting and publication of wayleave instruments shall
'"W wt laylmtcanvo. b 6e effected by a public officer, and an affidavit by that officer that the
requirements of section 1 (3) of the Act have been complied with
I   s-^zE  . ;....- ..(together with .a copy of.the newspiaper, referred to in that section)
,shall be.sufficient proof of such service.or posting and publication.
8 (1). Any. 'claim for compensation under section 6 (1) of the
. i 'flj   t , i Act shall be made in the appropriate form specified in the Schedule
hereto.
.r ;          .      ;.. (2) Any- matter referred to by the Minister to the Tribunal
under subsection (4) of that section shall be so referred not later
C than six weeks after the expiration of the period referred to in sub-
. section (2) of that section.
(3) Any such matter shall be referred in the appropriate form
*,{oW,.g^.'Wi. :.   specificd in the Schdcdule hereto.
;; S>X                        PART II-THE. TRIBUNAL
' i;SS'ccrciary"  9 The Minister shall appoint to act as Secretary to the Tribunal  N
to the'-     established. under subsection (5) of section 6 of the Act (hereinafter
iTribuna-   referred to as the " Tribunal ") a person who is entitled to practise
as a lawyer and who is also a public officer not below the rank of an
Assistant State Attorney or a rank equivalent thereto.
,, ,;~  ~4Scriceof   10 (1) The Tribunal'shall ensure that a copy of every document
documents  furnished to it by the Minister in connection' with a reference duly
. ,Siw. _4t,fumLsh,ed to made under subsection (4) of section 6 of the Act is served on every
8  / >jTr1bufnd1- party to the reference not later than two weeks after the receipt of
the document by the Tribunal.
.&~



t  5                             L.I. 334.
LANDS .(STATh TORY YA YLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
:, .^,.:.       (2) Service under the foregoing paragraph shall be deemed
to be properly effected if a copy of the document-
(a) is.. served by a public officer on a party, or some other
- person, at.the .address given by the party in connection
:.            .,.       with the matter being referred; or
*.'z', i: w'       .:. (b) where there is no'person at such address, or no such
-- .address has been given, is published in the Gazette
not later than two weeks after attempted service under
paragraph (l) (a);
(3)' An affidavit by the public officer who effected service
ff ,.r  :: under.paragraph_.(2).(a) or a copy of the Gazette (as the case may
, require)shall be sufficient proof of service for the purposes of this
.,Is:  ;     -, . regulation... -
sI. -'(i).Thae,   first hearing of any matter referred to the Tribunal Dates of
.not later than six weeks after the date on which tlhe hcaring
-matter.wa,s -'so ieferred, and the Tribunal shall give notice of aniy
) ,.;'~ ^  -.such heardng to all parties thereto in the appropriate form specified
;,,. g>;t. .nin the Scheduie hereto.
@  :,^.;e..K.:>~.(2) Subsequent hearings by the Tribunal shall be on such
|      'dates andat .such times as the Tribunal may from time.to time direct.
A  E        ..12. Any9p;arty to' a matter referred to the Tribunal may be re- Representa-
presented.at the hearing by a person entitled to practise as a lawvyer. tion of
13. (1) The. rules of'evidence applicable in civil proceedings in Evidence
the High Court shall apply =if: any.yhosiing of a reference by the and pro-
Tribunal..                        -                           ccdurc
i  .8. tl '-'  ''' (2) Except where the Chairman otherwise directs, the rules
of procedure applicable in such proceedings shall apply in any
such hearing.'
(O~i*            -.
14. The Tribunal shall not entertain any matter referred to it Rcquirc-
..., ,;e' ..unless it is satisfied that the requirements of subsections (l) and (2) mcnts
of section 6 of the Act-have been complied with.              6 of the Act.
15. The Tribunal shall have powers to make an award of costs costs.
in any hearing.
:     16. PRT III-TERmiNATION OP STATUTORY WAYLEAVES
''16. () '.Where specified works, in respect of which a statutory Procedure
* - . wayleave was created, cease to be used for the purpose for which on
they were constructed or for any other purpose in respect of which a tcrru)iation.
statutory wayleave may be created, the Minister responsible for the
specified'works (where necessary after consultation with the Minister
responsible for- Local Governmenit, or the Miinister responsible for
the statutory corporation as the case may be) may request the



334.                              6
v   ANSC (STA TUTOR Y    WA YLEA YES) REGULATIONS, 1964
'Minister to make a recommendation to the President that the
-    wayleave, instrument be revoked, and upon such revocation the
s, statutory-wayleave shall be deemed to be terminated with cffe:t from
-the date of. the instrument of revocation.
(2) A copy or every instrument of revocation shall be published
min the:Gazette and in a newspaper circulating in the locality, and
, shall.be.served (if feasible) on the owner or occupier of the land
which was affected by the statutory wayleave.
K. -A. OFORI ATTA
Minister of Justice.
SCHED ULE                                       Nz
9           ;-; .           ~~~~FORM I
r;*;         ;       ~REPUBLIC OF GHANA
,^<,..,8THE ~~~~~LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) ACT, 1')63 (ACT dSO
yo  ;.THE LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) REG ULATIONS, 1 (,64
W  .4-.  -;    .          ~~~~Regulation S
4'..";.. ,,  .   . NOTICE OF SURVE4Y
: ,. .o >the Occupier
r     frAKB NoTIC E that upon expiration of 24 hours from the service of this notice
,    entry shiall be made upon the ladd occupied by you, namly,............................................
(Stace particulars of land such as plot nunber, house nunber, or short
descript Ion)
for the purpose of a survey to determine whether the lauid is suitable for tile
~. .. construction of ..                 ................ .  _
a; _~~~~~~~~ ............... ......  ........... ......................... . ..........................................
.'.>@  ;-. -. -: - (particulars of works)                         I
. .**t2*r*.:   *..;:
     ;Da   and hour.                                Autthorised Person.
FXORM 2
.. 'REPUBLIC OF GHANA
;...TkE LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) ACT, 1963 (ACT 186)
'THE LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
Regulation 6
(delete where inapplicable)
..T ..............                  .....-    . ...................................
*      (name of owner/occupier) (insert the words Ovwner/Occupier
?.                    ; .     if. name unknown)
.,.A .d ..
.;0.
'- :-'.;v.
.. ..:..
A, .



F,.-                                                                           . 
7                                 L.I. 334.
LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
TAKE NOTICB that on the                                      ............................................ /upon
(date)
- expiration of one week from the date of this notice the land owned/occupied
`-by.'-you, namely,           ...      .....................
. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ............................... .  .........- ...- . ..............................................
IS .4W**- (particulars of land to be affected)
- - shall be entered, for the purpose of carrying out...................................................................................
.*e  . :;,,,. . :.. (particulars of proposed works)
X ~ "~w   h e shallbe": situated as shown for purposes of identification but not of limita-
;rg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     o       ;            . i R.g  -$.~t .-n5a .N. .... ........... ..... .... ... . . ...................... . ................
.0! !  M   <. . ;           ^(quote reference number of plan)
enclosed  herewith/, and  which  can  be  inspected  at............................................................................
'.                    ! '- ,: *t. 4> *- rs * ;__~~~~~~~~ .   ..;_................. . ... . ..   ._ _.__ . . .. ...._ . ....... ....................... . ......... . ... .......................
(specify place where plan can be inspected)
...;.. .t s ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................... ....................
..                   Date                                          Authorised Person.
Foiumi3
'To the Minister responsible for Lands
(name(s) and address(es))
$S ;55 @:CLAIM ._FOR COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OR DAMAGES CAUSED
Y.kSU9Y         -O% R. BY WORKS SUBJECT TO THE LANDS (STATU-
, TORY WAYLEAVES) ACT, 1963, (ACT 186)
Regulation 8 (1)
(D,escibe land with reference to an enclosed plan):
(Specify your interest in the land with reference to documents evidencing
;   .your title (copies of which should be enclosed) or specify particulars of
!-i~ X   atitle if there is no written document):
.1  e   B~'.; :'       '3.. (Specify survey or works which caused loss or damage, if possible
including date or dates and referring to a plan):
4. (Specify loss or damage caused by survey or works):
5. (Specify amount of compensation claimed):
I; .   :-, Y .>.   .     -6. '(Specify method of computation of amount):
Locality  anid  date                        ........................................... ............
.0                                 . . ... X  ....                 Signaturt-e(s) of Clailnant(s)
P:i. .         .
:. 
,jJ.                        " 



3 :8
LANDS (STAT`UTO0,RY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
' 'i -'i;'  .. *'P,-$   FORM 4
kREPUBLIC OF GHANA
S1 ~ ~  Thi- ,(STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) ACT, 1963 (ACT 186)
S(SUTUTTORY WAYLEAVEs) REGULATIONS, 1964
Regulation 8 (3)
'tys X y     Reference of appeall(s) against assessment of compensation by the Minister to tile
(delete wh&e&i,ippRicaiej
.' Ir,  J   ,the matter of the Statutory Wayleave over land at.                  ..... ..
^  .g;;>.;  . . . . . .   .,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ (short  description) ..............................  > . . .................
*A~~~~~~~~~ ~~(short description) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a      fer   t   p  e ls    y............  ... . .nmS .....  .. .....  ........................................
themater f te apea(s) (names)
.''. *agaznst the amount of compensation.
EREAA S    the  President has  declared  on  the..........................................................................................
;: .: .,.,,,v  ^ 9,  *  ,, ,., .           (date)
5 e Iad_et_....................... 
F;4 WW r -- *-'>, ~~~~(description)
u.bjectto a.statutory wayleave:
X             WHERE S.the person(s) hasl(have) made the enclosed claim(s) for compen-
aapiii 5S.tND wn sthe Minister has assessed the amount of compensation at..................
I,'s.                   .   . *,.,.z 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ...... ..   . F ;._. .   ................................................................... .......
W            ..                      (amount)
.*W  mH.s the claimant(s) is/are dissatisfied with the amount of compensation
.' ;ssesscd by the Minister:
1i'O E4OW, .THEREFORE, the inatter is referred to the Tribunal and a detailed computa-
\ ffi :tion of.ftlhe am.aoun.t of the-compensation assessed by the Miniister is enclosed and
heemya~f~ceo                      the claim(s) .   ..................
1~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~m e     s  are   mae   on  tecams.....................................................................................
v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.            .   , . .._ .  ..........................................   ........ ........... . .. .  .  .. ..  ................. .................................... .................................. .
'  E    t  .       :      .;            (comments)
.-;,- (dat(e)                          (for) Minister
.* ..  . iti '! -  *, .,  Date of Gazette notification: 17th January, 1964
...  -     ..........  .  Printed by the Govcrnmcnt Printing Department, Accra, Ghana
,, ,!Ss, .,_,4,   0p1A66(.4,,436.0/11-63-64
Price 4d.
J: tt :' * . . . _ _ 
:   .-   .,



* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-             - ---------
a, S ^ ;-                                      9                             L. 1. 334.
LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1964
"FORM 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
. .            THE   LANDS    (STATUTORY      WAYLEAVES) ACT, 1963 (ACT            186)
;l /THE LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES) REGULATIONS, 1954
!,:,- , 4(3                                   NOTICE
*   CX                                     BY TuE TRinUNAL.
Regulationi II
@ -  - - -     .--- ~~   ~ -   (delete where inidpplicable)  --
.4                In the matter of the Statuitory Wayleave over land at ..... ................................ _  
(short description)
and in the matter of the appeal(s) by .... ..................... 
X  .      .                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~(ntanje(s))
against the amouit of compensation.
_ E . - TAKB NoTice that the Minister has referred the appeal(s) to the Tribunal with the
-enclosed comments and the enclosed detailed computation of his assessmentof -
the: compensation and that the Tribunal will proceed to hear the appeal(s)
*                on                     te.... ... day of.            ...._ 96.-..
an            o. ............             . .. ....     .... .......... ......
- a            .                            (place)
and on such-other days as may be directed by the Tribunal.
0't:                                                                 Chairman.
r,; Accra, the ......day of ..196.."
"X.      6        - +Amending L.I. 334. by LJ. 346.
Issued 26/4/65 incorporating anicndmCnti madc by L.l. 346 (RP 921



VOLTA. RIVER AUrHORITY'(RANSMISSION )LINE
'- PROTECTION) REGULATIONS,-1967
IN exercise.of the powers.coniferred on the!Volta'River Authority
by secti6n 33'df -the V61ta WRiverilevefop'menerAcY1Q6l (Act 46),
these Regulatioins-are made thi;s i8tl ,ay. o
,;.;j t shall,   qqc n  ,, sjprsp g     ehetIlr 4zy,VhjImself or
in co-operation with otheS;,,1;.q  9R4,q, tlq Xojp.gl any of the
following acts in relation to the transmission line:-
(a) to drill, mnine or excavate or carry on any similar opera-.
y;lioPl jywithin t!b.transmission linc right of way;
..;;; I (b).; to.pa  any com ustible material inside the right of way;
(c) t'ause- ab-ny fire to burn within two lhundrcd feet of the
transmis,sq.,i a l  gf,;ff iayi  .\-; fl
(d) to climb on to, attach to or hang any object on or from
any tower or transmission line;
(e) to cause anything to come into contact with the trans-
mission line;
(J) to place, drive, tou, pull or carry any crane, jig, boom
or any object, under, over or near the transmission.line,
unless the mninimum distance from the conductors or
any of them of sich. object is not less than eighteen feet;.
(g) except with tte previous .consent of the Authority
obtained in vriting and subject to any condition that
the Authority may impose in relation tQ. such consent:
(i) to cary on any form. of 'blasting within :one..-
thowand five hundred feet of any transmission
line, or
(ii) te construct any building or structure or carry
on any kind of cultivation, farming or farming.
activity within the transmission line right of way.
2. Any peson committing any, of the above offences may be
tried summ:rily and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not
exceeding wo hundred Newv Cedis or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding.welve months or both.
3. .-In:nese-regulations--- *..n;. @. -, .  4*:;9 z|811  ; 
'right of way" or "tra'nsmission line right of way" shall
- '       include the area cxtending for a distAnce 1oI /ty .eet
on each side from the centre line of the transmission
...      towers;      :"l'   ' "
A 



2
/. QQLT4Ad  VER MUTH.QR2TYj(TRANSM1SS[QN&
'LINZ-PRQO   2XXQO) EZ4GILfATIOMS, 1967
/ ja :iiaV.tflSls~iJo1 jlinc'l 1sha4liiucludc?baluor .any .paibiof the
fr9m 1              v  iY4     .Akoisomb to 9flY
parlC)CGhana;an4    .1 1   ci i. .;.in.  o 
*ffi. h" v ;; -arof 7t;       th, nto ssrsio. r rn and forein
: V, :% i;. Je.;Zren I;)   tI I   fu.);oi)ilI  1 ft .1i1; ztiW o
~1riL l(~kit1LiSJ L  RT
t;/ 'J IdjtVgiIJ . wil bi1iunii (1I di&Lv.hief .ExectiWe; offihiJ)VolIta
..!; !.:1 !:,ib.,,ti!  .; v:it   iwJ taJd. I*  H;. ,J( ;,,J^t.0'
Data of Gazelle not  o   'YtbMay 1961 
!!;;i.  di  1.;^(l  wfi; gund liu l( A rtzJ fti:;,01.o   t1l;  dill;;i.   (IJ11 t
* ~  -  id*IUu)  t')1L  .0  . {:i., u
wnif :Uf~~nmjns; sic, i:uo vtt
* *.:.  .  ;)~j(,i)   .. lull' (*  2ulivivicii: :.~ ul  Cu
.,u- t;W *.)lii :rwf     Jt.LI^ib UrsIuli(I ^dI *at1uztJ
3'5nit           - L mi4i  . lA.  I i'i .j ! ajjt'() rIzi~:)o . .  *   . , 
..:! :;isi. i;.;1'; ,,' : *-i;: 6a- , r ....**...  .. . . -..  .....  : . * , * *.***,.............. 
..;;a  '  &. ''.ji   *t,}.:  ';..s ..c&  ':X'.ZI j,4IIj. ;1..;,  ';,* ',l
'.iai .   GJidriiv f  .:: od i-,i1   '(fl -:ji((((. :..  ...;  &.i.   *:  .
.;:  '.  . .  -
s(lil;.l  i ;a lf riil 'ai 4rroje;witiJ  1'I   IJi; fjiw $:
4J/ :J i;!Mo zwodu s w.r.ir.)ol s,nJ piDifutw^t , nri;%. 4y 
:;Vl i.t; c: Id.-;'s I-d nolin; ;,I.  1!' ,lh-$mmiw bt2i:
*                 * .~~~~~~~jd](4  iGti(lilotilI tA*W gnS^ -,
PRIND BY THZ STAT PUSUStUNG CORPOPATIOt;l(PiUKfN DE.'MN) -
SPC/Ai&07ij4,46`q(4jij 7  ol  I* }JJXL J*,;,'I Ii!
Prkec: N0.02    ;.,,X



PROYISION'AL NATIONAL.DEFENCE COUNCIL
(ESTABLISHMENT) PROC4MkTION (SUPPLEMENTARY
|i 0  .  1" 1     '                  AND CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS)            W, 1982       .
.  ! *, .  |  -  -        ~~~~~(9) Nonsopinewth       recomended procedures -and-- 
substantive criteria prescribed .by the Board.shall be prima facie
a: 9   N on- ucm li ne -  wi h ten r c m e d d pr c d s a d
. ,,,;,- evidence of a conduct detrime  tal to the national or public interest.
. .  : j ; . e            .I. (1O) Mere formal compliance with the recommended proce-
:.J ;, i      ,       dures and substantive criteria prescribed by .the Board, shall not,
automatically amount to a discharge. of the responsibility placed .
tK  I   ,, | ;                on a public officer under subsection (8) of this section.
(11) For thpi purposes of this section"'publc body" means
,. ,,l,s;!.3it  -: any establishment i wich'the Government has a proprietary 
interest. -;. -:       - : _   - _. ....-     - _           .
|~    "3!t i  ':           -    (12) Tb Public Agree'ments' R'eiewi' Comitte estab'lished''''  '
.   *l; .''; 2'|'<.;'  -tunder the Public Agreements Review Committee 'Decree, 1979.''
. . !Jti t,-j~. j ; - - -- ' -' '(A.F.R.C.D.:43) and in existence:immediately before the coming into -
,~  ~ .  .; .! 51  1',  'force' of this Law shall cease to exist and all the records of-that
i ; ,I",1 ~' I1  L  j'  '   }  ' Committee shall be surrendered to the Board.
,  H jl@i  Laad      43 (1) There shall be established a  d  Valuation Board to be
iVa lua oa   -responsible for-;'
~~ ..ij~~~~.1.  . ~~~(a) deterining al        :aM36fcif~iaI&fo            id
.   @4'; u ', j'. ' - 1            ' acquired by the goYement, any orga of goverent
i.         (b) 1'.'' - or public corporation on whatever terms;.- .-... _   ..  .  -
!I 1 ;t ,m,,;;;.A  i  .  -. ~- - (b)prepa7inng:the: valuatic  list for property rating r pur-a i pr
I   ',;:  ' .        -     '  (c)"'assisting je-judicial administration by valuing interests  -
';'r 4                   .'. *.* i, -,in land; of:,.deceased personssfor the,administration of
X,  s   ~I; p,.':, ,, ' |   -  '   ' death  duties;             .
i    .,|, ,.5'.'-.* I  ' -   .  (d) 'iindertaking valuations of immbv able property fo r the
|  |1 ;9lql @%X 4  '  - . '"'  '  . adhahftioii' df'bfApitl jgain!stax asd7stamp.-duty-a:s-.{-%--- 
'well 'as any other duties-that the State-shalllevy;  .   _ . j
R  i!11ffits$.>; ,. |  ...  .. .. - ,(e), _dqet.ng th e Ang e o  g9vernmente ted  res; d. pei...............
yl. .                .    (0advising. the Lands Cormmissioni and` :the .Forestry    ,    2
. IIN  . Mlt^XSI$":ti'. I   ' ' : : :: Commission on royaltypayments on_forestry holdingsi
|  ll>gll^ea  $           :* : '. ''siid prodX,-    ,-       ^-- .     *~  ~' 
i (g) aniist'ern  the'.timinio  xddle4vel personnel:
l2, ''required.f6rivaluations by'the.goYer e.;t._ :. _.  .. .
111:....  (h) advising tallD organs of-government- on ,all,matters :of - -. .
'valuation of-inte'rests in imovaibepropery,' .,.-;
i -'advising th,e government on:the streamlimg of valua-
i ,l fl ltiiItgi'! j  ' : ::      . ;: * . s  f  r itipn.:dtpients-ia public establishments;  * ,  ; ;-
(j), a:.t,oorinkg'private. Yaluationi-activties with a view to .-  '
.          -l   protecting the:natiinal interest; ..  *  i    -
kf 9l.!10 ..                                                                                        -.  ..  . .. .,
H  '4 JNz1  '-I.--I
1           ltAS 0' ..i ... 
I~ ~~~     *11|t 1-   X--                 -g*            -    ---       7S- 
i W!   1f  a  ,' '''z'S- '7''''': -



*                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29    P.'N.D.C.L. 42.
- - PRO V ISIONAfL -NATIONAL DEFENCE: COUNCIL%
(ESTAB LISHMENT) PRO CLAMATION _(S~UPPLEMENTA~R Y                I
AND CONSEQUENTIAL pRo.VYIsoNsy L;w4          98-
ak)  olIathf  ii  eitraI v  ations. cdnducted  by  -te           : ;  I 
- : oard -and colecin  inf6fiiitin - iieliting to' land
...valuthrou aluthes thoughotr teyo;tyan                         i
*: (1)'Publishing. in. p.eriodic .official -bulletins information
*            such information ~regardng its valuation.s.as it deems.-
. lfit inthe national interest;. --*---     .   .     .
--(in) deveIoing  Y eOmmended cod of valuiation to regu-
late. the -.Procedures and patice for'the -rating o   *--
immovable properties.   .:...
.~~ -.  ~~(2) -The.-Board -shall -consist -of not less than three pers&ns 6r 
..-Moe-tasvnpersons -appointed -by the Cou'ncil 'of whom one       .
.hllbe   o inite'd a's Chimn
---(3) --Thie-Board shall -have an Executive Secretary who- shall be.
appointed by.the Couacil: .---.--    --. . ...       .
(4) Thbe Board in the performance of its functions may c'o-opt
a Maximnum of-four- additional members to-assist in its functions. - -..
(5)'The' B6aid shaill- siibniit 'periodic. reports -on" its work to
- .the Secretary for Finance.   7. .--.:
P() oi& oal aitnsof public corporations and Y`ahiu-
tioni departments in bodies in which the State has a'n inter'est, shall be.'
-submiitted to .the".Board,- and the Bloard may adv-ise the public cor-
porti6" &  apen   concerned regarding such vlain.
7)Ay.person aggrieved by any -valuation mae   'yth'e                .J    I
Board in.respect of a~ compe6nsation for . land .may..apply..to _.thie        .
Tribtihal `,abllshed u'nder the State Lands' Act 1962 (Act 125)
for review;
:-(8) Thei Tribunual-shall notify th&'Secretkl~,f6r.F~ihaine of-fits,
-   ''  findnings, and the.Secretar myithe light of such. findings'eie-
the valuati on of the Board.-~
property rating.purposes may apply for review. to a Rate Assessment
Tribimal to be ap'pointed by, the Secretary for Loc'al Govern'ment.
'(10 Th .Rt~ A~esiiiiitTribunal sball 6iiify the rtin
au,.-~ thprixy.of its. decision, and..theirating -authority-shall be-boun'd to
-Comply with such decisioi -unless the.Co uncilI otherwise directs.:   --
'44. (1) Unless the Council oth'irise.directs, ainv public corpora- "Public
tion';.in existen'ce before the coming intofreo.te Proclanmation CorporationsI
sball continue -to operate uinder' th  ncmn~  .which -it- 4as c"tn             I
-.:---- established.-. .           .-
...  . .  .....                , 4  
r-.7



P.N.D.C.L. -42.                       30.>
...PRO,VISIONAL NATIONAL'.DEFEANCE, COUNCIL-
-  (ESTABLISHMENT) PROCLAMATIONF (SUPP'LEMENTAR Y
T-AND. COSEQUENTIAL:PROVISIONS LAW)-1982* 
-(2) Where the Council -decides that -it, is in' the national 
-interest to do:-so;-it may take o'ver the control and management of
-   the affairscjr any part of the affairs of any public corporation. 
I I  ~ ~ ~~,;(3) The *govemnifg bodies-of -public corporations 'may, withi
-the approval of the Council, make reguilations by legislative instru-
I,            m~~xent to govern- 
'().th control and administration of the corporation; - 
b).th co:W nditions of service 7withinth orrain
Publio  (i~j)(ly All" public li:fids iM.T Ghana. "shall"be'-veste~d-in thi Council'
on behalf of and in: trust for the people of Ghana a'nd -their corn-    I 
.2) The- Council shall ensure that the benefits of land as a.
.  nationalresourc -areenijoyed by tepeleoGhnasaw        l.
The Council may authorise the occdPation-And Use of an'Y.
land, especially where such land is the subje6t-mnatter of unproductive
dispute, for :anY; ubcpupose.which,in~t   pno    scnuie       .I
--to, the -public -welfare or_ihhe.intirests- of the -State, aid.-may direct the.
paymient  ani6ai a~pjpropat iiaccounto such -sum as appears to i,.'
-    having,regard.-on-the-.onf-had...tq.lbhe...YAle.o tfhe land, and on the__ 
oth-er hand, * tcPtbe beiiefits~_dirived from the is'e 'to "which the, land
quisi. e..~be
-     ny lan   udrthe sscto              underi           heic
1K           ~~~~put and any.payments to be made in respect of the use of the land:'
(5)  hei an pesonsufersspecial loss by reason of dis-
turbnce.s                                        43 ofl  f nauhrsain ne  thisseto,hma
appy o teUnd alatin-Bo d stbbsedundr ecichomns43tfitn
- any compe, nsation that may be- ayable ih-iidh '-_o..rnp_'unscti .o.-  * 
-shall-be payable -fro'm the -acc6unt refe'rred :to -in* subsection '1 -of2- 
this section or from such other account as- the Council shall direct.
(6) No person shall -own more thaa' oine plof -of such public 
land's'a's maY be dsposed of by the Lands Com-mission' or bya p~ 'blic!:I
corporation for residentia purposes in tesm  iyo one&t-
..h.r. sucha$.-gr a.nt" is ff -the development of a housi'ng estate-I
appro~d bythe.4_ppropDriate, authoiy  -    - -   .-                  1
(7') Aniyperson who is affected by the operation of.subsection.
---()of thi scinsalntfthSerary for -Lands and Natural .
. . - ~Resources of this fact forthwith and in any case not later than the.-'



PROCEDURE FOR COMPIJLSORY ACOUISITION
xii.    Manager arranges with Engineering Department to:
i)      delineate land on a map of approved scale.
ii)     produce site plan on the property.
xiii.   Manager prepares for the signature of the Director, Application for Compulsory Acquisition
supported with fourteen copies of the site plan and forwards them to the office of the Regional
Secretary.
xiv.    Manager anranges to inform those affected by the compulsory acquisition of the application
made to the Regional Secretary.
i)      where the people affected are few, written notices shall be sent to them.
ii)    for more extensive acquisition, it shall suffice to publish the notice in the mass
media.
xv.     Manager shall arrange for representation on the site selection committee appointed by the
Regional Secretary to consider the application for compulsory acquisition.
xvi.    Upon approval by the Site Selection Commnittee the report shall be forwarded to the Lands
Conmmission for:
i)     final approval
ii)     processing and publication of an executive instrument by the Secretary for Lands.
iii)    manager shall prepare for the signature of the Director, a request to land Valuation
Board to prepare estimates for compensation.
xvii.   Manager shall afrange for the publication of notice of compulsory acquisition as in 3 above
and request inter-alia all affected persons to submit claims for compensation to the Authority.
(Notice shall be published at least three months before possession of the acquired lands.)
xviii.  Publication of appropriate instrument
-37-
xix.    Manager shall register title to the property.
12.  DEFIN-ITIONS, IF ANY: N/A
13. REFERENCES, IF ANY: N/A
Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46 Section 27)
POLICY GROUPING: LAND MANAGEMENT                                      POLICY NO. 0114
SECTION "A": IDENTIFICATION DATA
1. SUBJECT: Acquisitions
2. SUBJECT AREA:       Valuation
3. FUNCTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY: Director, Real Estate & Environment Department



SECTION "B": BROAD DIRECTIVE PRINCIPLES
5.      POLICY STATEMENT:
Valuation opinion shall guide all transactions in real estate.
6.      POLICY/ RATIONALE:
7.      SCOPE OF APPLICATION:_
The policy covers all real estate transaction that involves the Authority: especially in
these key areas - acquisition, compensations, sale and leases.
SECTION "C": OPERATING RULES
8       DECISION RULES:
Valuation reports must conform to the principle and practice accepted by the Ghana
Institution of Surveyors.
9.      SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES IF ANY: N/A
10.     EXEPTIONS, IF ANY: N/A
SECTION "D": SUPPORTING SYSTEMS
11.     SUPPORTING SYSTEM FOR IMPLEMENTATION, CO-ODINATION AND
MONITORING OF POLICY:
i.      All valuation cases shall be assigned by the Director, Real Estate Department or his Manager,
to the Estate Officer or an external valuer. Assignments must include a clear statement on
the purpose for the valuation.
ii.     The Estate Officer shall carry out the valuation in accordance with the principle and practice
of the profession and guidelines approved within the Real Estate Department.
iii.    The Estate Officer shall, as part of the valuation assignment, produce and submit to the
rnanager for review, a valuation report produced in accordance with the approved fornat.
iv.     The Manager shall review the report to ensure that the content meets the required standard.
-In carrying out the review, any statutory requirement to consider the opinion of a designated
government department shall be complied with.
-Where consultation with a government department is not obligatory it is still expedient, for
cases of large monetary values, to obtain a second professional opinion on the report.
-The review shall have due regard to the approved check list for review of valuation reports.
12. DEFINITIONS, IF ANY: N/A
13. REFERENCES, IF ANY: N/A
PNDC Establishment Proclamation Law 1982.



POLICY GROUPING: LAND MANAGEMENT                                     POLICY NO. 0115
SECTION "A": IDENTIFICATION DATA
1. SUBJECT: Acquisition
2. SUBJECT AREA:       Compensation
3. FUNCTIONAL RESPONSIBILITY: Director, Real Estate Department
4. DATE OF POLICY RELEASE/REVIEW:
SECTION "B": BROAD DIRECTIVE PRINCIPLES
5.      POLICY STATEMENT:
Comnpensationpaymentfor all real estate acquisition shall be paid based on assessment in
accordance with statutory provision. It may take theform of cash payment or equitable non-
monetary assistance towards resettlement; or combination of the two, in accordance with
government policy.
6.      POLICY/ RATIONALE:
The total compensation in any real estate transaction should neither be detrimental to the
individual nor to the Authority
7.      SCOPE OF APPLICATION:
The policy applies to all interests in real estate that are directly acquired or that suffer loss in
value as a result of the Authority's business activities.
SECTION "C": OPERATING RULES
8       DECISION RULES:
i.      Compensation may be non monetary assistance towards settlement or combined with
monetary payments for persons displaced from areas inundated.
ii.     Compensation payments shall be mnade by the Authority to the beneficiaries.
iii.    Compensations shall be paid within reasonable time from the date of the acquisition of the
property.
(This calls for close co-ordination with the Valuation Board)
9.      SPECIFIC CIRCUMSTANCES IF ANY: N/A
10.    EXEI'TIONS, IF ANY: N/A
i.      WlWere payment is to be made to persons acting on behalf of the claimant, such
pcrsons should produce an authentic authority note plus three passport size pictures
of himself duly endorsed.



ii.     The successor of a deceased claimant shall, in addition to the appropriate papers,
support proof that his claim has been established in a law court.
iii.   Evidence that he is the legal beneficiary in accordance with the provision of the
intestate decree.
iv.     Three passport size pictures of himnself, duly endorsed by family head.
SECTION "D": SUPPORTING SYSTEMS
11.    SUPPORTING SYSTEM FOR IMPLEMENTATION, CO-ODINATION AND
MONITORING OF POLICY:                                     I
i.      Before any work conmnences on the required Estate, the Land Valuation Board or any
recognized valuer shall be requested, in accordance with statutory requirement and as far as
practicable.
a)     to conduct a site inspection for the purpose of referencing and assessing afl
properties (including crops and valuable trees) to be affected
b)     to submit to the Chief Executive for the attention of Director (REED)
recommendations on compensation to be paid for the acquisition.
ii.     Upon receipt of recommnendations from the Board,or the recognized valuer the Manager,
(Corporate Estate) shall
a)      check the reliability and reasonableness of the reconmmended assessment,
and certify to that effect.
b)      prepare a pay-roll showing all the beneficiaries, which shall be subrnitted by
the Director to the Executive for approval. A copy of the approved pay-roll
shall be lodged with the Director, Finance, for his guidarice and
arrangements for money to be deposited for compensation payments.
iii.    Payment of compensation shall be by cheque made direct to the beneficiary or his/her
accredited representative, only upon subrnission of a claimL
iv.     Payment of compensation entitlements is usually done at the local level
~)   , a convenient town or village is selected as the pay center on the basis of its
centrality.
b)     to facilitate identification of claimants, a team comprising a representative
of the Corporate Estate Manager ,Opinion Leader in the village,
elder/chief may be present at the time of payment.
c)      paying officer shall ensure that the claimant who is on the pay-roll presents
the appropriate documents (where applicable Standard Form F,title
documents,etc.). Both the original of the document (held by the paying
officer) must tally.
12. DEFINITIONS, IF ANY: N/A
13. REFERENCES, IF ANY: N/A
i       Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46 Section 27(a))
ii      1992 Constitution
iii     State Lands Act 1965 (Act 125)
iv      Land Statutory Wayleave Act, Act 186 1963



---I



ANNEX B:
PUBLICATION OF
PUBLIC NOTIFICATION OF POTL
INTENT TO ACQUIRE



i
I
i
I
i
i
I
I
I                                    I



U1AN'T1MES
V/OI1JA IRIVER DE VF.O>PME NT A(-I i 9( 1;Cl 4(4)
'NOTICE OFENTRY UPON l,AND F O I'I*1. 'lJIRlPOS1-: . !
CONSTIRCT'ING AND OPERATING ELE'C' ' 1'CA!L NVI.            . W .
use    By vintue ofSection 12 of the above Act and pursuaint o S:. 'ui 1 i 5 he L' A!i.-.i'
ort    Corporation Decr e N.L.C.D 125,1967), Notice is I:I .       I 1 tl: . .
on     Executive of th e'olta River Authority or any pcr-:;G" ;,:;r:!i' "U,
or .hlituwillafterouce *veckfronithecdatcofthispublic:tiW.li  ,:;U! i!;i! {iil:' 
or      j       ..itit~ I 
upim ijiu L.aaus Iesclnbed in thc cL!!:..  W!:u C ICtc  .
thereto as may bel fr the purpose- of constructingan  16dd1ii..;!i  K 1 ' tr:!I:: \.
line from Prestea to Obuasi.
ice   ....
Copiesof the maps .;howingthep.oposedTransmissiin Li IuI: C I Wu y " e Sv,::.
working hours atth following offices as the case may b:
I  . Regional Co-ordii;ating Counc.ls in Sekondi, Cap:  .2:0 Ku:.;i:        .
Commission Secre ariats in Sekc.ndi, Cape Coast ancd V; . ;. . .i \Yc' Vi.
Assembly, Tarkwa, UpperDenkviraDistiict Assembly, L)!"L!,I.':-OnV-Ofhn. .i-.t:I7,
;     West District Asseribly, Obuasi . nd Rcal Estate & Lnvir; "1wi !'ep:irtmc;i , ''.'.,;
Pegasus House, Ace ra.
Any person having ,: .y property on the said lands described in (uc schledule which ISI!. 
be injuriously affectc clby the exercise of the above powcrs is ii.i<ty nquirW wit ;
months from the datc of this notice to send to the Chief Excuti'. '.';i R`  '1 -.:.. Rl,, '
P. O. Box M77, Acc:'a, astatement in writingsigned by lhill.'!: .'! 2)!' On vlI/:,hcilC!'":2.',
showing the pailicul.lrs of hisler :;aid property iCILU(ii  c !';.. ' 1   i   jh.. :
likcly to be suffered.
SCHEDULE
All that piece of lan' measuring 15 metres on either si dc O:.  Pr'-opo ecl I d   '.; "
Transmission Line n.nning between the \'RA Substations at V ca and 0bu;:.i :.S   ;
istance of 110 ki lonictr es, more .id less and contai ni n o iH I .i xu:- a im,:tc 1rc:i :.
Square Kilometres.
The proposed Transr.iission Line 'v!itll generally runi pa'i!! . !':: !:i'si  ::
distance approximatc iy 30 metres t.) the West.
'   . w  , , ,  ...  . ,  ,  ~ ".~ ,       C(9111k-:' EXECUTIVE ','



i
i
I
I
I
i
i
i
I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



ANNEX C:
LIST OF PAPS AND IMPACTS,
BY VILLAGE,
WITH COMPENSATION AMOUNTS
To protect hose people awarded compensation, the following lists contain only
the consecutive case numbers, and not the names, of those people. Full lists
of those awarded compensation are available at VRA in Accra and in the World
Bank in Washington for those who can demonstrate a need to have access to
the names of the people involved.
(Note: Some farmers had several plots affected by the transmission line. Most but
not all of these instances have been consolidated, so that each farmer receives a
single check. Where a farmer is listed twice in these lists, he or she will receive one
check for the totality of crops lost, whether on one or more plots.)



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I                      I



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
PRESTEA
- FARM/                    SIZES                  RATES           TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND     L    M    S    SDLG   L     M      S    SDLG   T   _     P 
1 160 * 100 Cassava      0.37                   1,645.06100 Q          608,672.57
________ Oil Palm(L)          14                     48.000.00       672,000.00
__________                  ______ ~   ~  ~                1,280,672.57
2 50 75 Cassava                 U.09                     , 42582100      128,323.89  1_2_o_______r
50 40 Pineapple            0u.5                     269178000       134,589.00
- 0 40 Tomatoes    -.05                             148367600        (4,183.80
337,096.69
__          Orange      7                   70.000 00                    490,000.00
Coconut     1   -               100,000.00                   100,000.00_
______           -        590,000.00
T    5035  Pineapple      0.04                   2.947,560 00           117,902.40 _
-        117,902.40
5 100 '300 Oil Palm(A)                    125o.00000 o                5,125 000.00
_ .......5,125,000.00
__96 50 Cassava            0 TT                   1,645,061 00           180,956.71
180 ,956.71
_7          Oil Palm(A) 13                 125.000.00                  1,625,000.00 _
Coconut     2                   100.000 00                   200,000.00U
Avocado P   3                   70,000.00                    210,000.00_       _
.____ ______           -       2,035,000.00
200 1 00 Cassava           1                     1.645.06100            755,728.06
Coconut     2   -100.00000                                   200,000.00
_______ Oil Palm  (L)  2  -0.000.00                                 160,00.00
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,116,728.06
'1.O.T.L.
,delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
PRtS I LA HAKKItK
_ FARM/   R-ZES                                 KATES           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
-ACEAGE    KIND     L    W    S   SDLG   L     M     S    SDLG   P            P
__          Coconut    1    -              100.00000 G                1,1U,uuU.uu
Oil Palm (L)  4  1 1  5        80.000.00 64,000.00 48.000.00  1,264,UUU.UU_
________ orange     1                   70,000.00                    7U,UUU.W 
Banana     7    4              8,000.00 6,400.00             81 ,buU.u
_  7    Z,b1b,bUU.UU
I?  ________ Coconut    8                  100.000 00  __UU,Ouu.uu
________ Oil PaIm(L)  2  6    4         80,000.00 64.000.00 48,000.00  (/3b,Uuu.UU
banana     22   12             8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00   Z81 ,6Wu.uu
____                                                                           1 M1 ,U1(bU.U
__ ___     Coconut    3                   100.000 00                  3UU,UUu.uu
Cocoa      4__ 23,00000                                      9Z UUU.UU _
_  .  l   392,UuU.UU
Coconut     7   -              100o0W 00   60.000.00        BU,UUU.UU_
_ _____ Oil PaIm(L)      5                    64,000.00         '   3ZU,WU.UU
Banana     17   6              8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00  1l98,4UU.UU
- ________ Oil PalM(A) -                      100,000.00             f,U3B,4U0.O
__ C_______ Loconut    5 -                 100.000 00                   5W,UWU.UU
__  _____   Oi  alm(L)  1   -              80,000.00  8 _ __U,UUU.uu
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5bU,UUU.UU
_           Coconut   2                   1000 00                     zU,UU.UU   __    ___
______    )Oil Palm(L)  4 E6            80000.00 64,000.00  -U4,UU0.U          _     _
-Banana    14   lb   12        8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00   Z7 2,Uu.UU  _
_ -                                                                            -       1,176,WUU.UU
7         iOIl Palm(A)          1 7                   75.000.00 _1,2zl5aUuu.uu
5U'lUO  Pineapple  -    IJ1 1                2.947.560.00  _       324,  1 .6U
Iil Palm(L)  -ZU                     64,000.00 1_t__uau_u._ 1,2..........____________
Cocon ut   -    -60,000.00                           _      4ZU,UUU .UU_
8          orange     -    _-                         42.00000CO-     1Z6b,WU.UU    3,ZYY,Z31.6
15O5 75 Pineapple      U.- Z  -              2947,56000 _ __b,tYU.uu
Oil Palm(A)          Z5                    75,000.00      1,35B,UUU.UU
________ Coconut    -6-                             60,000.00       35U,UUU.UU
_______ Oil Palm(L)  -  it    18       _      80,000.00 64,000.00 _   Z,51Z,UUU.UU
_____       ______        _____            _   _____        ___________            17,428 7Z1.60
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
t3RUMASI
FARM/                    SIZES                  RATES   -       TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
-ACREAGE      KIND     L     F M S     SDLG  L     M          SDLG   P                      P
50 - TU0Pineapple                           2 947.560 00           324,231.60
-           Banana     30   17   23        8.000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00   459,200.00
Coconut     1         1         1o00,000  .  60,000 00      160,000.00__
________           ____      _____            _____              ______________     943,431.6U
2          Oil Palm(A)  5-                     ,100.000.00           5,000,000.00
-_Oil Palm(L)        lo                   64,000.00              640,U0.UU
5,640,000.00
3  50 3 50 Pineapple  -    02                  2.947.56000 oa           58,951.20
Banana     29   15   10        8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00   3(6,000.00
-           Avocado     2                   70,00000 oo                 140,000.00
Coconut    7                    100.000 00                  100000.00
Plantain       17                    6.400.00              108,800.0U  1_____751__0
_~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                        ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ _  .  ,383,751 .20
____ Coconut            3                   100.0000                     300,000.00
._ _   _ _ _ __ _ _ _   300,000.00
_5          Oil Palm(AT  Z0  1T8           125.00000 100,000.00        4,300,0  0_     _   __
2U 4U  Pineapple       U.U0                 2,947,560.00             58,951.20
(_uava      1   26             40,000.00 32.000.00          872,000.00
260 luT10 Coconut   36B-      7         100io00 .    60.000.00     4,020,000.00
Orange     10                   70.000.00 .____             700 000.00
.____  -   9,950,951.20
__ ________ Coconut    44                   10000000                   4,400,000.00
Oil Palm(A) 20  10D_            125,00000 100,000.00       3,500,000.00
7,9300000
71          Oil Palm(A)     30                   100000.00              0_
_uava       3                   4000000                      120,000.00
_ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~  ~   __                            3,120,000.00
8  84 * 20 Pineapple  -    .04                  2.947.560000           117,902.40
Oil Palm(L)      8                    64,000.00              512,000.00
Plantain              5                     4.800.00         24,000.00
_ 120 50 Pineapple  -   .14                  2.947.560 00           412,658.40
Oil Palm(L)__ 22                     64.000.00             1,408,000.00_
__=__ _____                   --       72,414,560.8
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
BRUMASI          '
-    FARM/                   SIZES                  RATES            1 OTAL VALUE     AMOUNT
- ACRE           D  -TL TL   F   S   SDLG   L    TM      S    SDLG             p            p
__          ODil Palm(L)    12  1T               64.0000 48.000.00 4800.0  1,564,000.0
Coconut         7    9               80.000 00 6000000     1,100,000.00
-TU 'lrt3U5o Pinleapple    . 1 1                2,947.560 00 -         324,231 60     2-4000
I T         Oil Palm (L)    14                   64,000.00              89600.0,
-           Banana/PI '-W  1T             8,00000 6,400.00 4,800.00
I~~~~~~~~~~__                                                                1,081,600.00
2 8*BU 80 Pineapple   0.15                3.130.26000  _       .        469,539.00
_______ Oil Palm (A) -       1--                    75,000.00      1,50,000.00
Oil Palm (L)   T1 2   -             64,000.00 48,000.00   1,632,000.00
____ _____                  ___ ___ ___                   -~     ~~~ 3,151,539.U00
-T37        oil Palm (L)T  1 TZ-2-         80.0ooo0 64,000.00          1,728,000.00 ,
503 50 Pineapple            -     -         2,947.58000            176,853.60
__ _______ Oil Palm (P)    17    13              100.000.00 75,000o00 _,65,000.00
Oil Palm (E) 1Z  11 T 4T-     80,000.00 64,00.00 48,000.00  2,336,000.00
Pineapple  OW  1     -         3,130.26000 2.947.560.00  '   976,105.20
_____  ,_  5,987 105.20
T5   70' 50 Cassava       000364  _               645.061 00            132,1(8.91     ,_     _
40 50 Pineapple        olu          .        2.947,58.00  _             30     _.
-           Oil Palm(L)               -          64,00000 48.000.00     2(000.0_
___  Palm(L                           551,556.91
Oil Palm        15    4              64.000.00 48.000,00   2,112,000 W
Oil Palm(A)     9    i s5      12000W00 100,000.00 75,000.00  2,775,000.00
Coconut                   24         ___Z4        40,000.00  960,000.0_
.______  _________          _____                              -       5,847,0 00.00
iT7 _______Oil Palm (A)    29    16              100.00000 7s.00000   4,100,000.00
Coconut _                  17-    __              4000000.00  0
-  100 1UO Pineapple      -.2            -       .,947. 000             67,938.80
Oil Palm (L) 1T  13  TW    -   80,000.00 64,000.00 48,000;00 ____._2,_72_00__0
_                               ~~~~~~~                               ~~~_ __. .  8,129,938.80
______ ___________                                                     29,661,525.51
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
BRUMASI
-    FARM/                   SIZES   _              RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE       KD       L 7L  M   S   SDLG   L     M      S    SDLG   WP                _   P
________ Oil Palm(A)  24  1T1           125.000 00  100 000 00     4,100,00W .0 _4_1___UUU.UU
Oil Palm(L)     1    5               64.000 00 48,000.00   1,200,000.00_
Coconut                   45                      40.000.00  1,800,000.0U
20U 10u Pineapple      0__9_3682_ 2.947.560 __                     1,353,333.33
8,453,333.33
19Y       -Oil Palm (L) 10  12  8         80,000.00 64.000.00 48.00000  1,952,000.W_
Oil Palm (A)    9'_       _    125.00000 100.00000         2,025,000.00
_  .  ,   3,977,000.00
201         Oil Palm(L) 17  10   15        80,000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00  2,720,000.00
I      -       2,720,000.00
211         Oil Palm (L)  8  12           80.000.00 64,0.00.00         1,408,000.00
_______ Oil Palm (A) T0  21            125,00000 100,000.00        3350, 000.00
-TT-~ ~ ~ ~    ~ 12,0.010000  5000           4,758,000.00
221        Oil Palm (A)  7  17  11        125,000.00 100,000.00 75000.00  3,400,000.00
Oil Palm (L)  7  10            80,000.00 64,000.00                            U 1,200,000.0
_____. ,___                4,600,000.00
__ _______ Oil Palm(A)   4   8 -8          125,000.00 100,000.00 75,000.00  1,900,000.00 
Oil Palm(L)  0   18    1       80,000.00 64,000.00 48.000.00  2,624,000.00
100 T   1OU Pineapple  - .23                 2.947.56000  .          677,938.80
.         5,201,938.80
4 1OU T 150 Cassava       0 3S26 7               2.947.560 00          1,015,000.00   *_     _
Oil Palm(W) -    a                   6400000                 64,000.00  UU
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~__                              1,655,000.00
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NESTERN REGION                                  PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
MRAKETE COMPOUND_
FARM/ |          |       SIZES   _   _           RATES     _       TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAG-    KIND      L   M     S    SDLG   L     M      S    SDLG                           P
___ __________ OzI PaIm(W)  4~ 18  6         80,000 00 64.000 00 48,0000 00  1,760,000.00
Oil Palm(A)                 18                     s5o.ooooo   900,000.00 __________
_ -         Oil Palm(A) 40                   125-000 oo                   5,000,000.00
= -  ________ Oil Paim(W)    10        _           64,000.00     _640,000.0U
-       8,300,000.00
2    50   59 Cassava  0__      ___. _             1,645.061 00  _         111,407.94
50' 59 Cocoyam         0.068                  1,556.7500 o            105,859.41
= ___       Oil Palm(L)      7                     64.000o00               448,000.00
____                                             _                   665,267.35
3 150 T1U00 Cassava         0.34_4  1_645_ ooa61                           565,900.98 u
=        565,900.98
4_     _   Banana    -                           6,400.00                140,800.00
=                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~140,800.0
3150 T   80 Cassava         0275.t-2)6             1.45.061a00             453,184.85
Oil Paim(L)  -                         64.000.00               320,000.00
=         773,184.85
| 50' lTou Cassava          0               ___ 1 261,645.06100            188,872.0Z
!  __ P_ lantain a  7                    8,000.00 6,400.00 .            100,80.00
=-_ Oil Palm(L)          -                         64,000.00a6             128,000.00  _________
417,627.0Z
'7     10 *1ou Cassava  -   .23                    1,645.061o00            378,364,00
=______ Oil Palm(A) 98        23         125.000.00 100.000.00 75,000.00  16,8(5,000.0_
Oil Palm(L) 15  80.00          80.000.00 64.000.00           1,616,000.00
________                     _____                          ______            -       518,869,364.03
__          Oil Palm(L) -    5-                    64.000.00               320,000.00
-5 50u Cassava         0_ _Os _3              1,645,06100              84,972.16
____           .____ __             _      .- 404,972.16
__ __     _Oil Palm(   4Z                    125.00000                   5,250,000.00 oF
_____  ______ ______                    -       5,250,000.00
T   90 U   1U00 Cassava    020661157              1.645.061.00 _ _        339,888.64
Oil Palm(A)  8                   125.00000 _            :     1,000,000.00
________                        _____             -   ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,339,888.64
= _______  .________     =    ____  ,____  ______  ______           __________36,727,005.02
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
rVESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE          . .
CROP VALUATION
MRAKETE COMPOUND        ___                                |
-  FARM/                   SIZES                  RATE-S           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE       KIND     L    M    S   SDLG    L     M     S    SDLG              P P          P
7T  160T9U UCasav          0.21                  1.645,06100             345,462.81
Oil Palm(L)     9                     64_000 00              576,000.00
Oil Palm(A            b                     75.000 00        375,000.00
=________ Plantain       3    1u0             6,400.00 4.800.00       67,200.00
_______                               _____            -      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,363,662.81
12          Banana    14    7    3         8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    180,300.01
- 15U   WU Pineapple       0._34                 2.947.560 00          1 002,170.40
= _ _ _ _ _ _  ._______  .__ _   _____                     _ _ _ _ _   _____________   1,182 ,970 .40
=_______               ____                                                        2,545,633.21
'.O.T.L.
:delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                   PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
KWAMENEAMPAH
FARMF                     SIZES                   RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAGE       KIND      L   7F    S     SDLG  L      M     s    SDLG   WP              TP
_1           Coconut     3                    100.00000 80,000.00           620,000.00
___ = _________ OIl Palm(L)  -71   4  7       80,000.00  64,000.00  48,000.00   1,632,000.00 
|                                                       .  .    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2,252,000.00
!-oil Palm(A)  T13  =            125.00000                    1,625,000.00
1,625,000.00
3 50 ' 100 Cassava           0.12                   1.645,061.00            197,407.32_
Oil PaTm(L)      2                    64.000.00  .            128,000.007_
325,407.32
i_ 5Oil Palm(L)          2                    80,000.00                     160,000.00
________ Coconut     1                    100.00000                     100,0.00
=  .260,000.00
Oil Plam(L)      2                     64.000.00               128,00W.00_
Plantain         Z5    -               6,400.00                160,000.00
75D50  Cassava         0                       16450600___5,061.00     141,620.27_
._____  -    429,620.27
_6 5Oil Palm(L)          3    4               80.000.00 64.000.00           496,000.00
Plantain    T                    8,000.00           ___         565,000.0
___  ______552,000.00
7    73   U 60 Cassava       0____ ___ 1_645.061o00                         165,412.47_
Oil Palm(L)      2                     64.000.00  .    _       1286,00.00_
I -  ________                                         -         293,412.47
8 15U ' lUo Cassava        0.11                   1.645,061.00            180,956.71
Oil Palm(L)  4-                        64,000.00               256,000.004
.        ~~~436,956.71
-      -             ______ .____ .____________                    6,174,396.76
'.O.T.L.
;delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NVESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA . OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
--______  __________________    DENSU
-    FARM/                   SIZES                  RATES           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACR-AGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG   L     M     S    SDLG                       FP
-T    _     Oil Palm(A)  10  8   13       125.000 00 100,000 00 75,000.00  3,025,000.00
oil PaIm(L)     7                    64,000.00             448,000.00
.  __                    -      3,473,000.00
__          Oil Palm(A) 17  8              125.000.00 100,000.00      2,925,000.00
Oil Palm(L)  7  7              80,000.00 64,000.00        1 ,008,00.O _
Plantain   Z3   17    7        8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00  32Z6,400.00
- UUWO 100  Cassava    01645068100                                  378,364.03
Oil Palm(L)                          64,00000              320,000.00
Coconut    T7 ''3     1        100.000 00 80.000.00 60,000.00  2,000,000.00
.~~~~                      ~    ~~~~ 8 ,951,764.03
1lU lUTWU COil Palm(A) 23                125.000.00                 Z 875,00.00
Cocoa            -                                9,200.00  1 84,000.00
-   oconut      -     0                     60,000.00  .    600,000.00
= ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ___                      3,659,000.00
__    Oil Palm(A)                                 75,000100 __  1,350,00.00 
Coconut               1                     60.000.00        60,000.W_
-      1,410,000.00
___________Oil Palm(L)  - 8 -    W               64,000.00 48.000.00  7688W,0.00
_ _N             5         -         80.000.00             400,000.00
)Oil Palm(A) 10  17   5        125,000.00 100,000.00 75,000.00  3,325,000.00
________ Plantain   4    6-__           8,000.00 6,400.00            70,400.00
Banana      3    6    2        8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    72,000.00
= _______ Oil Palm(L)    7    5               64,000.00  48,00000   688,000.00
________  =_________         =____                  _____  ______  ______________  4,535,400.00
________ _________ ____         _____                       ~~~~~~~~~20,135,154.03
'.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
I______                     KWAMENEAMPAH
-  TARIWF               SIZES                 RATES           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND     L   M    S   SDLG  L7      M     S    SDLG                T
OiT PaTm(L) 22  3_  7         80.000 00 64,000.00 48000 00  4,080,000.00
=_ _______ Oil Palm(A) 57   3    7        125,00000 100,000.00 75.000.00  9,950,000.00
Coconut    1 3                100 000 oo                 1,300,000.00
Mango       V   -             70,000.00                     70,000.00
_______ Orange      3   4_             70.000.00 56,000 00         434,000.00
Coconut    4    -,000000                                   400,000.00 __________
Avocado P  1                   70,000.00                    70,000.00
7      l8U1OU Cassava    01561065;2  .         1.645.061.00 48_000_7 256,804.75_
__          C)il Palm(L) -1 5             _______48,000.00 7___         20,000.00 ________
O il____   Palm__ L_  ____                 _____  _____  _____________    916,804.75
=n             _    _       --_
_______            -    - I  I__                        I                         A7,ZO,8W.T
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                  PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE         -
CROP VALUATION
DUMASI
FARM/                    SIZES   _               RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L   7      S    SDLG   L     M     S    SDLG   P                       P
1 500 1T0 Cassava           1.15 1T645T061 0                             1,891,820.15
= ~ ~    ~   ~   __                                                                 1,891,820.15
21          Plantain 10      T     2               6,400.00 4,800.00      121,600.00
(pd - 7 * 7) Plantain    Z04  137              6,400.00 4,800.00      1,963,Z00.00
-,084,500.00
102 6U Cocoyam     0___       __0___            1,556,75600             218,717.9
-  TUU  50  Cassava    o ___7__206            l,r45,061                1   2     _
Plantain              68                     4,800.00         326,400.00
-   100uu 50 Pepper    U.1 1                2.615. 55             _ _7 287,22.057
-  2   5U0  Oil Palm  (A)           14                     so.ooo.oo 50,000.00  700,000.0_
_ ~   ~     ~    __                          .__                            -       1,721,666.86
41 9545    -ocoa                      60                      9,200.00   552,000.00
(pd- 12 '12)                                                                           552,000.u
5  180 50 Cocoa       =               1 Z6                    9,200.00  1,159,20.UUUU
1,159,200.00
T12U ' 50 Cassava         01377410.7             1.645.061.00            226,592.42
C)il Palm(L)     2                    64,00000                128,000.00
____  ____                                _____            -         354,592.42
7    84 55 Plantain               128                     4,800.00         614,400.00
30 50 Cocoyam                                        1,374.056.0       41,221.68
Oil Palm(L)      3                    64,000.0                192,000.00 192_U_____
84 8W55 Pepper-   0T    -               2615.655.00                   281,722.05 
=  ,~  ~   ~   ~  ~~___                                                          1,135,343.73
-' -T5U 1W Cocoa                       2U4                      9,200.00  1,876,800.00
_____  -  1,876,800.00
9           Plantain              148                    4,800.00   .      710,400.00
10U2 90  cassava        .21                    1.645,061.00 1__       345,462.81
=   90 Pepper     U.U4                  2.615655.00                   104,626.20
-       1,160,489.01
-T  150 1UU Cassava         U.34                   1,645,06100             559,320.74
Plantain        12   20               6,400.00 4,800.00       172,800.00
20 90 Pepper     0041322314            2.6156.5.00                    108,084.92
________  _ _ _ _840,205.66
=  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _                         _ _ __               _ _ _ _ _ _     12Z,776,917.83
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
DUMASI
FARM/                   SIZES                  RATES     __     TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND   L 7       S   SDLG   L     M     S     SDLG                          P
;T 30U 100Y Cocoa     414                  23.000.00                -9,522,000.00
Orange     2    -              70,00000                      140,000.00_
-       9,662,000.0
_   _2      Cocoa     4     -              23,000.00                    920,00.00
Coconut    4                   100.000 00        .           400,000.00
= _______ Oil Palm(L)    7                    64.000o00  48,000 00  713,000.    __
= _____ _  __Orange   5,0                 00 0 70,000.00  __ _ _ _ _ _-2             4 6 0 0 0
2,406,000.00
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
YAW ODURO VILLAGE
FARM/ t                  SIZES                  RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
- ACREAGE     K        L    M    S    SDLG   L     7M     S    SDLG                          P
T 4         Cassava 40__U                        1,645.06100              45,318.48
Plantain   17   23   1         8.000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    331,200.00
37_6,518.4
Orange     1 3                  70,000.00                    910,000.00
Oil PaIm(L)     1 6  1Z80,00.00 64.000.00 41,245,000.00 1_24__UUU_UU
= _______ Avocado P F                   70,000.00                      70,000.00
Mango                           70,000000                     70,000.00
2,298,000.00
68 T80 Cassava           o.s852l6               1.645,06100 -__         205,443.50
_________ Plantain  12   10   lU        8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    Z08,000.0
, ~  ~    __ .-                           413,443.50
-__         31_______ Plantain  9           8,000.00 6,400.00            113,600.00 )
113,600.00
5         Oil Palm(L)      9                    64,00000                576,000.u0 
=______ Pantain      6     -  1 r2      8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    201,600.00 _
m 1,600.00
_           Oil Palm(W)  TZ  7    7        80,000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00  1,744,000.00 _
= _   _ _       _Cocoa  49              23.000.00                   1,127,000.00
_____           -       2~~~,871 ,00W.W
7         Oil Palm(L) 1 1  6    12        80,000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00  1,840,0w.00
= ______ Oil Palm(A) 12  6              125.,00000 100,000.00 _2,100,000.00 _
______ _____ ~~- 3,g40,000.00
_           Oil Palm(L)  6  14    7         80.000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00  1,712,000.00
=____             -      1i,712,00.00
9           Oil Palm(L)  8  5     4         80,000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00  .5 1,1 52,000.00
_              ~~~~__  =_ ___         ____           ________                    13,654,1 62.28
'.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
(ESTERN REGION                                   PRESTEA OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
____ ___ ___ ___  BO G O S O                                _  _  _ _  _
FARM/                      SIZES                   RATES             TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND    L    M     S    SDLG   L     M      S    SDLG             P             P
__          Oil Palm(AJ  -   3           ZU         100,00000    so.ooo oo500  4,900000.00
.            .          ~~~~~~~4,900 000.uu0
I'2 __________ Oil PaIm(L)  3  12  6          80.00000 64,000.00 48,00000  . 1,296,000.00
I -Plantain  6    4    W         8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00     112,000.00_
._______  _ _ _1,408,000.00
I3 _         Oil Paim(A)                 48                      50,000.0  2,400,000.00  __4UU_UUu_uu
Cassava         . . 03t645,061                     _   _       509,968.91
2,909,968.91
4 339 W l0U Oil Palm(A)                 47               _250,000.00 so__ooo___oo
Coconut     8          1         100.000 00   60,000.00         860,000.00
__150 _ 100 Cassava      0 ___ 2  2_7           1 i,645,061.00           566,481.0     1
Oil Palm(A) 53   28              125,000.00 100,000.00        9,425,000.00
_                                                                  13,Z0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21,481.06
?;105 * 1 00 Cassava           0 241048832              1,425U 821  .      4,6Y6
_         COconutPalm(L)   8    1 -   10  800 64,.0006, 4000 324000.00  2,448,0w_.oo
Oil Palm(A) 12Z  6               125,WO0 00      100,000.0.W 10,0oo
c       ~~~~~~Oil Palm(L)  17 10          80.000.00 64,000.00          Z,W5W00
Oiln Palm(A) 35  3     22125,000.00 1W0,000.00 75,000.00      9,025000
_~~~~~~~'o Cc nut   49                   100 000 00,0,000
Orange      3                     70,000.00         .           210,000. w
-      16,135,U00.u0
7 150_ 10() Cassava         0.34                    1,645,061.00            559,320.(4
Plantain     -    -                           4,800.00          115,200.00
674,520.74
I  354T 100 Plantain              488                     4,800.00        2,342,400.00
-Oil Paim(L)  -        7                64,000.00 48,000.00     154,000.0W
Orange      3                    70.000.00                      210,000.00
Coconut     2-                   100.00000                      Z00,000.0W
-  1TUm 10U Cassava         0.- 3                   1.,645,061.00           375,364.03
_____                   -       3,914,764.03
________ ________                _        ______  ______ = ____ _____ _   ______________  48,035,424.35
.O.T.L.
o1elikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
BOGOSO
FARM/                    SIZES                 RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
_ACREAGE   KIND     L    MF   S   SDLG    L     M     S7   SDLG            P       -    P
n   100100 Sugarcane       0.23                  1,335.232 00  .  ._ '  307,103.36
Banana     4    6              8000.00 6,400.00              10,400.00
377,503.36
T   U 1001 00 Cassava  t    23                   1.645.06100            378,364.03
(Orange    2                    70.000 00                   140,000.00
Coconut    1                   1000.000 __                  100,000.00_
Plantain   4                   8,000.00                      32,000.00U
________ Oil Palm(P) 16  4    4 --4   _ 125.00000 100,000.00 75,000.00  2,700,000.00_ _
3,350,364.03
TT ________ Oil Palm(P) Z0  15   7        1 125.000 00 100.000.00 75,000.00  4,525,U000.00
Oil Palm(TL)    5     5              64.000.00 48,000.00    560,000.007
1TO 10T0 Cassava       -.23                  1,645.061.00           378,364.03
Coconut               4                     60000.00        240,000.00
Oil Palm(P) 14  5     4    _    125,000 00 100,000.00 75,000.00  2,550,000.00
_____      .  ,         8,253,364.03
1s2         Oil Palm(P) 14  5    4     -   125,000 00 100,000.00 75,000.00  . 2,55U,000.00 _
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2,550,000.00
3          Oil Palm(L)  6   7    3         80.000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00   1,072,00U.0W
Coconut         3     9              80,000.00 60,000.00    780,000.0_
70 80 Cassava         0.12Sa3 .              1,645,06100           211,486.26
Plantain   2          4 -      8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    92,800.00
__________                  ___ .-                                             2,156,286.26
__          Oil Palm(L)     5    1 -_            64.000.00 48,000.00    800,000.00
TUO lUU Cassava        -.23                  1,645.061.00           3(8,364.03
1,178,364.03
13         Oil Palm(A) -    13   23   -          100.000.00 75,000.00  3,025,000.00
_  5UD,50  Cassava      Os7M2103             l1.64506100              94,413.51
_____                  -      3,119,413.51
2U 2    U   1OU Cassava   0ssfl3ez3              1.645.061.00           755,308.08
-        755,308.08
17 12U 1U00 Cassava    -   a7S                   1,645.061.00           453,184.85 _
Oil Palm(A)     52   14     7         100.00000 75,000.00 50,000.00  1,100,000.00
________  Coconut  5  __ _ _ _ _100.000     _ _ __ _ __   __ _    500,000.00 _ __ _ __ _ _
oconu  .___0000  _   .  8,053,184.85
=___                                                            29,793,788.15
.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VVESTERN REGION                -PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
BOGOSO
FARM/                    SIZES                   RATES           TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
=ACREAGE   KIND      L        S    SDLG    L     M     S    SDLG            P             P
-T   5o      Cassava        0.11                   1,645.06100 _ .        180,956.71
Oil Paim(A)  -  30    0               100,000.00 75,000.00  4,500,0W.00
I___ _           .4,680,956.71
TT ______ Oil Palm(A)        12T   Z0  ,__          00.00000 75,000.00   2,700,000.00
12-~~~~~~~~~~~~                               2,100,000.0000.0
_ __          Oil Palm(A)               _          *00.000.00  50000o00  1,Z00,000.00
! ______                                                                     -       1,200,000.00
_   _   _    Banana     30   5    T0         8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00   320,000.00
________ orange      3                   70,000 00                   Z21 0,000.00
Oil PaIm(L)  3                  80,000.00                    Z40,000.00
_ ~   ~   _ __ _ _            __ _   _ _  _ __7__7___       _  _ _ _ _ __ _  _          ( ,00 0.00
230 w50 C5assava       -    .U3                   1,645.061.00            49,351.83
Plantain         3                    6,400.00                I19,200.00
___ ________ Banana     4                    8,000.00                      32,0W.00
Oil Palm(L)      6                    644000.00              384 0W.O0
_____   __ __ _  484,551.83
23   30 ' 40 cassava        0.03                  l,645.061 00            49,351.83     
________  _____        _____  _____                            49,351.83
2   50_ 30 Casav           0.03                   1.645.061.00            49,351.83         ,
49,351._3
25 1 00 ' 1 00 Cassava      0.Z3                  1,US5,061.00            38340
._____               378,364.03
5020 Cassava                                     12645,0f0.009
Oil palm(L)                                                                  2   0 80,000000 64.000.00
-27         -Oil palm(L)  2  2               80,000.00 64.000.00         Z-88 000-00
~~  ____            _____            512,000~~~~~~. 0   Z88,000.00__
1 W 0 1 ZO' Cassava      0.Z8                   1.645.061.00           460,617f.08
_        ~~~~~~Oil Palm(L)  4-  3        80,000.00 64,000.00          !512 000-00u
.        ~~972,617.08
=________       =    ____       _____  _____  _____      ______________    11,894,094.53
'.O.T.L.
,delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
fVESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - O0UASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
BOGOSO
FARM/ F                  SIZES        l         RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
- CREGE    K7NWD    L    M_ S       SDLG  L     M      S    SDLG            P           P
Oil Palm(A)                     1 125.000 00 100 000        1,Y25,000.00
=u                                                                                     1,1925,,000.0
4 T     10U Cassava        U. 32                  1.645.061 00           526,419.52
____    _____              ______l                    526,419.52
T   263 *!5U (assava    5_6132             __     .      _645061_W .     526,419.52
_____     SiYams        U.07                  2.036.343 00            142,544.01
Plantain        3     6               6,400.00 4,800.00       48,000.00
.          716,963.53
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
=  _ _ _ __                                       _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _ _     3,168,383.05
'.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
i VESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
I  -T~R1gF                 SIZES    KOKOASE/AGYEIKROM
;  FARM1/                 SIZES                  RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
REAGE      KIND      L    M     S  SDLG    L     M      S    SDLG            P     TP
_          Oil Paim(A)      3    24               100.000.00 75.000.00  _  5,600,000.00
__          Oil___  Palm(L) 14               80.00000                    1,120,000.00    ._.
1,1ZO,000.00
I '3 ________ Oil Palm(A)               30                      50.00000  1,500,000.00
. -.- ____  ___  1,500,000.00
I __ ________ Oli Palm(A) 46    __2___125.00000 100,000.00               7,750,000.00
Oil Paim(L)  12  -0,000.00 I60 00.00
________~ ~~~           ___                                          .          8,110,000.00
I __ ________ Oil Palm(A)  14  28  32       125.000 00 100.000.00 75,000.00  6,950,000.00
Oil PaIm(L)  7   34    8         80.000.00 64,000.00 48,000.00   3,120,000.00
2-  O50 CGassava    -                          1.645.06100            477,067.69
Plantain         16                    6,400.00    . ._.      10Z,400.00
10,649,467.69
T6 180 l0U0 Cassava         0.41 __5__6 ____                              674,475.01
iOil Palm(A)          10    40                ,000.00 50,000.00  Z,750,000.00
_ _ aantain  17   6              8,000.00 6,400.00             174,400.00
7          Oil PaIm(A) 24   15   12        125.000 00 100,000.00 75,15,000.00 00__4UU__-__-_
W80     U50 Cassava    -    .:9 :eAio.061.0o                             148,055.49
_                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~148,055.49
9          Oil Palm(A) 49125.000.00                                     6,1 Z5,00.0
_ _   ~-        6,12Z5,000.00
TU 1689 100I Cassava        0.39                   t.645,061 oo           641,573.79
Plantain              45                     4.800.0          216,000.00
_        O~~~~~'il Palm(L)     18                     48,000.00        864,000.00
-f  90 1W Casv              020661157             1.e45.06t.00            339 88.6
=      =                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44,91 Z,860.6
.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PVESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA . OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
KOKOASEIAGYEIKROM
FARM/                    SIZES                 RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
-  ACREAE     KIND     L    M    S   SDLG    L     M          SDLG          P P-P
_   175T 1 WU Cassava      040174472             1,65,06100             660,894.57
Corange     1                  70,000.00        _            70,000.0
Oil Palm(A)  3             25  125,00000          50,000.00  1,625,000.00
Plantain        25                   6,400.00         _     160,00W.00
30U 50 Sugarcane 00344352 _            1.828.522,00                 62,965.63
Avocado P                       70,000.00                    70,000.0t)
'___  Z_____-2,648,860.20
150u' 100 Cassava             _ 3 _35. ___ _1,645,06100                566,481.06
Oil Palm(L . 4                  80.00000                    320,000.00
.~~                                           ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 86,481.0ff
4 10DU0 luu Cassava    -    .23                 1,645.061.00           378,364.03
_   cPL    8               32  80,000.00          32,000.00  1,664,000.00
2,042,364.03
13      Oil Palm(A) 36  15             125.000.00 100,000.00 .    6,000,000.00 _
Cola            -               70,000.00                   140,000.00
7 Avocado P  1                  7,00.00                      70,000.00_
Coconut     2    2              100,00000 80,000.00         360,000.00
Orange      2                   70.000.00                   140,000.00
_Guava           -              40.000.00                    40,000.00
Mango       1   -70,000.00                                   70,000.00
13          Oil PaIm(L)  8                 80,000.00                    640,000.00 __________00
Oil Palm(A) 3Z                 125.000.00        .         4,000,000.00
Avocado P   F-                  70,000.00                    70,000.00
-      4,710,000.00
17 483 uW Oil Palm(A) 67                   125.00000                  8,375,000.00 _
(pd-23.6-23.6)                                   .-                                8,3(5,0UU.00
__          Oil Palm(A) 25  14             125.000.00 100.000.00      4,525,000.00
_                                                 .   .         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,525,000.00
=____                     ._____               ______________  30,007,705.29
'.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
~~~~ ~~~AYENSUKROM
FARM/                   SIZES                 RATES           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND  L    M    S   SDLG   L     M     S    SDLG  P                      P
___         Plantain   8   7 _    _8,000.00 6,400.00                  108,500.00
87 50 Cassava                        _____ 1.645.06100           164,279.51
Oil Palm(LJ -1            3   80.000 0          32.000 00  176,000.00
__ 87 50 Cocoa                       60                    9,200.00   552,000.00
i       1,001,079.51
-2 198-  8  Cassava       0036363630_ 1.645.061 bo                    598,204.00
Oil Palm(L) T4  10   2        80.000.00 64,000.00 48.000.00  1,056,000.00
1,654,204.00
3         Oil Palm(A)  6  -             125,00000   75,000.00      1,800,000.00
22U 5U Cassava     -    21,645,06100                              411,265.25
Oil Palm(A)  6  6             125,00O00 100.000.00       1,350,000.00
________  _ _ _ __ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _3,561,265.25
-4  _  _   il Palm(A) T 6Z_ 20          125.000.00  100.000.00 
-       9,750,000.00
Oil Palm(A) 26  13            125.00000 100,000.00       4,550,000.00
4,550,000.00
___________Cocoa      24                 23.00000                     552,000.00
ola       1                  70,000.00
_____           ______  ______________   ~~622,000.00
_7   _        Oil Palm(L) 15  13          80.000.00 64.000.00        2,032,000.00
_______                 _____                        -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,032,000.00
Oil Palm(A) 26                125,00000                  3,250,000.00
Coconut    -                              60.000.00        60,000.00
3,310,000.00
9 174 ' 80 Cassava   -    .32                 1.645,06100           526,419.52
174 ' 80 Oil Palm(A)   35                  100.000.00           3,500,000.00
- ________ Oil Palm(L) 12                 80,00.00                    960,00.W
I  -       _____      _____             ______  _____________   ~~ ~~~~4,936,41 9.52
I -                     -146,68Z
'.O.T.L.
,delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
AYENSUKROM
-    FARM/                   SIZES                 RATES    __      TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
-ACREAGE        KINDY  T L  M    S   SDLG   L     M     S    SDLG                 T     W
T0         Orange     4                   70,000.00                   280,000.00
50 50 Cocoa                                       13.80000        496,800.00
-       5U Cassava          :I       _          1645.061 00            246,759.15
Plantain   7         8         8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00  132,800.00
30 50  Pineapple      0.03_                 2947.56000             88,426.80
.___  l____                 -       1,244,785.95
mT ________ Cocoa     45                  23,00.00 00 _ _  .          1,035,000.00
o100100/130-50 Cassava  0.38               1.645,061 00           625,123.18
Plantain        6    11             6,400.00 4,800.00       91,200.00
297 * 80 S Oil PaIm(A)       35                     75,000.00     2,625,000.0W
I  ____                      -       3,341,323.18
13         Oil Palm(A)- a                                         37 125.00000  100,000.00  5,450,000.00
=  .     =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5,450,000.00
1__        Oil Palm(L) 28                80,000.00 _ _,240,000.00
_ 150 100 Cocoa     06-                23,000.00                  4,738,000.00
Oil Paim(A) 20                125.00000  _2,500,000.00
9,478,ppp.pp
3 _         Oil Palm(L) 12  -              80,000.00                   960,000.00
= _______  =_______                          _____                        -        960,000.00
_   _ ______  _____                        l____                        21 , 9,1 09.13
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
, NESTERN REGION                             PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
INSUSUDIN
FARM/                   SIZES                  RATES           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KINW     L   M    S   SDLG   TL    MW     S    SDLG             P             P
T 115*50 Oil Palm(A) -     2                    100.000 00            2,000,00.00
-   3u   80 Oil PaIm(A) -   _ - 8                      75,00000       6,225,000.00
_ -                                                     _-  _               ,L)  45,00064,000000  1,920,00.0
2           Oil PaIm(A) 1  9 Y            125.000 00 100.000.00       2,900,000.00
=  7i2,900,000.00
'3 10U07T0 Oil Palm(A) 14                 125.000 00                  1,750,000.00
_______~ ~~             .__                                          -      1,750,000.00
4Tl Palm(L)  5                 8 -0,000.00                        10____________
Plantain       28              8,000.00 6,400.00            547,200.00
_______        ____              _____                  -    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~ 94(,200.00
5         Plantain   8    78             8,000.00 6,400.00            563,200.00
- 00 U5 Cassava   -    .11                  1,645.061 00           18d,956.71
90 50 Plantain         71                   6,400.00    _    _     454,400.00
=___ =___ .____   _____  _____  _____          -       1,198,556.71
'.O.T.L.
-delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
ASANTEAYE
FARM/                   SIZES                   RATES           TOTAL VALU E      AMOUNT
ACREAGE       KIND     L    M    S   SDLG    L     M      S    SDLG            P   P
--T         Plantain  2     65 63  54      8.000.00 6,400.00 4 800.00  2,382,40.00U
_____             ______       ______           -       2,382,400.00
__          Cocoa           -              23,000                      1,978,000.00
-1,978,000.0
3 2U3 5U Oil Palm(A) 23                  125,00000                    2,875,000L00U
Plantain   68   32   25        8.000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    868,800.00
3,743,800.00
__________ Cocoa       58                  23.00000 oo                 1,334,000.00
Plantain        18                   6,400.00                115, 20.00 
_ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~~__       ._____                                             1 ,449,200.00
__________ Cocoa       52                  23,000.00                   1 ,196,000.00
Avocado    2                   70.000.00                     140_000.00
.         1,336,000.00
240 1 OU . ocoa  2  30                                                                ,3O,uo7,900.0 r
~  24 W'TO D  ~   - ~ .   _____  _____ 23.000.00  _____  ____   7,590,0 030.00
7    50  D 50 Cassava                          1.6 45 061000            98,703.66
Plantain             1 0                    4,800.00          48,000.00
_____  __-  146,703.66
a 500 10U Cocoa           -               23,000.00                  15,870,000.00
Oil Palm(L) 11                 80,000.00                     880,000.00_
Orange     3                   7,0.00.00                     210,000.00
_                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16,960 000.00
b 50^ 1TU Cocoa       70Z                  23,000.00                  16,146,000.00
16,146,000.00
0 186W 75    ocoa                          23,000.00                   4,416,00000
4,416,000.00
TT 394 *100 Cocoa     540                  23,00.00                   12,420,000.00
Oil Palm(L)  6                 80,000.00                     480,000.00
_______ Avocado            1            70,000.00                      70,000.00
Cola_1 _   C                   70 .00000                      7  0  .00 __
____ ___  ____ ___13,040,000.00
=  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _   _ _         _ _ _ _ _ __        _ _ _ _ _ _     69,188,103.66
'.O.T.L.
:delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VESTERN REGION                                  PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
I_____________     _  ABEKAKROM
FAR/I                     SIZES                   RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
A     CRE G     KIND  L   M    S      SDLG  L     M      S    SDLG              P P           P
-T "6280 Cocoa                 _             23000.00  o  o  _            6,624,00.00
= ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ______                                             6,624,000.00
__          Cocoa       35                   23.000.00                                    662U_805,0.0 
_____  _____  ______  -      805,000.00
3 530 3U Cocoa              -               23.000.00          _   _     4,692,W00.
= _______ Plantain  88    -               8,000.00       .                4,00.
________  _____  -.  -       5,396,0u0.uu
77 78 5     Cocoa                            23.000.00  _  .          A   1,242,000.0      ,
Plantain    12Z  13 _      _     8,000.00 6,400.00              179,2uW.W_
-       1OW TU  Cocoa                        23,000.00                    6,24,0000
_= ___            .  ,          8,045,Z2U.00
IK5  195 T 5 T  D Uocoa   270                 23,000.00                    6,210,00.00
Ii ________ Plantain     8                    8,000.00 __64,000.0VV
!-___                .6,274,000.00
________  _________  ____  _____               _____________    ~~27,144,2 0o.ou
_                    . ____=                              ==__ _                         _
.O.T.L.
lelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                               PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
PEMESO
FARM/                   SIZES                 RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND   L    M    S   SDLG   L     M      S   SDLG             P            P
__          -Cocoa    1        _          23,000.00                    345,000.00
Plantain  23  W48             8,000.00 6,400.00            491,200.00
-   12U030 Cocoyam    -    .14                  1,556,756 00           217,945.64
-           Oil Palm(L)  2          _     80,00000                     160,000.00 __________
-   1,Z14,145.84
2 lU 5U Cocoa        6                   23,000.00                  1,518,000.00
-          Oil Palm(L)  3                 80,000.00  _                 240,0U0.000
-     -1,51,070.0
3 1270 *    100 Cocoa  I7                23,000.00                 40,296,000.00
Oil Palm(L) 10                80.000.00                    8W0,000.00_
Cola       1                   70000.00 7__0,000.00
______  _____  ______  ______________   41,166,000.00
4   125 T 1UW  Cocoa  15                  23,00000    ___            3,5  ,000.0_
Cola       2                   70,000.00                   140,000.00
Oil Palm(L) T4-                80,000.00                   320,000.00
_______ ______ 4,048,000.00
5 545100 Cocoa      750                 23.00000                   1 7,Z50,000.00
Cola       2                   70.000.00                    140,000.00
_______ Oil Palm(L) 1T   -W.000.00                                1,040,000.00
Orange     3                   70.000.00                   210,000.00 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                      16,640,000.0
2 27T '50 Cassava     -     0.32                1,645,06100            526,419.52
.___                                     -        526,419.52
7 12U' 30 Cassava         U.08                  1,645.06100            131,604.66
I  -     131,604.88
8 5W U 1uU Cocoa    690                 23,000.00                  15,870,000.00
_ ___________ Orange  3                70,00.00                     210,000.00
_~~ .______                                                                      16,080,000.00
9 au 5U    Cassava        0    __09             1,645,06100            148,055.49
-        148,055.49
TD luo 75 Cocoa       102                 23,000.00                   2,346 000.00
= ______ Oil Palm(L) 24  1 3           80,000.00 64,000.00        2, 52, 000.00 __
'Plantain  8                   8,000.00                      64,000.00
= ______  ._______                                              _____________     5,162,000.00
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                            - -    PRESTEA OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ P E M E S O   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
FARM/N                    SIZES           P        RATES        _  TOTAL VALUE        AMOUNT
=ACREAGEI    KIND      L    M    S     SDLG  L     m M      S  SDLG   P               0 P
1T           Plantain  1      T5             8,000.00 6.400.00              576,000.00
Oil PaIm(L)4          3 -                     48,000 00        144,0UU.0   _
_________            _____  _____  _ _ _ _ _  ______  _ _ _ _ _   ______  ______________  7 2 0,000 .00
T2 53 50    Cassava     -    . 6                   1,645.061 00             98, 03.6 
13  53   U Cassava      -                          1.645.06100  =           98,703.66
l             _                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~98,JU3.6
14 10 O  10T0 Cocoa    138                   23.000.00                    3,174,00.00
Oil Palm(L)  8   -               80.00000                      640,000.00
2BU 6   Cocoa      Z34                   23,000.00                    5,352,0m._)1_
Orange      2_                   70,.00.00    42.000.00        182,00.0w
Oil Palm(L) T5 l                 80,000.00                    1,200,000.0_
cola        2                    70-000.00.                    140,000.00
Coconut     T                    70000.00                       70,UU0.0U
_      10,U88,00W.00
15  72U  1 OU  Cocoa         -               23,000.00                                 ______________
Oil Palm(L)      46                    6400000                2,944,000.00
Orange           -               70,0.00                       420,000.00
Mangoe     1T-                   70.00000                       70,000.00__
=  _.Z6,204,000.00
16          Plantain   -1 -4,800.00                                        556,800.00
Oil Palm(L)      -               80,000.00                                ______o,___._U
Avocado    VT                   70.000.00                        (0,000.00
-  * 7U  Cocoyam   -     .U8                  1.5568756800             124,540.48
_____________        831,340.48
17 353 T100U ocoa       486                  23.000.00                   11,178,00U.00
-            Plantain   -2                                 4,800.00          57,600.00
_____        _____             -      11,235,600.00
13 10 T O-   Cocoa      84    -              23,000.00                    1,932,000.00     ._
_____ _                   1,932,000.00
13 197 10U Cocoa        27                   23,00000                     6,210,000.0_
= _ _ ,, _ = . . . ....___                                                 6,210,000.00
2~  2 '03fl  (ocoa     TUW                   23.000.00  _ __ _ __ _ __    2,484,000.00  _ _ _ _ _ _
________  _________                       _____ .ocoa_24                 _4   ____     2,484,000.00.
= _______  =________  .___    _____  _____                          ______________    60,502,347.80
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
PEMESO
FARM/                    SIZES                   RATES             TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
=ACREAGE       KIND   L   7>    S      SDLG  L     M      S    SDLG j~         P    P
72  215' b5  Cocoa   1T507                  23.000.00                    3,450,000.00
Oil Palm(L)  4 -                80.000.00                      320,000.00
Avocado     1                    70,000.00                      70,000.00
_ _ _ _  _ _  ___                .__                     3,840,000.00
2 282'50/26050 Cocoa   72                   23.000.00                    8,556,000.00
________ Oil alm(L)  4   -.80 eo.o                _                     320,000.00M
Avocado     1    -               70,000.00 ___,000.0_
_______ Mangoe       1                   70,000.00                       70,000.00_
Cola        2                    70,000.00                     140,000.00
-     _____  _____      ______  ____________                  9,156,000.00
73          Cocoa      11_                  23,000.00                    2,530,000.00
= _______ Oil Palm(A)  523-              125.00000                    6,500,000.00
Mangoe      1                    70,000.00                     U70,000.00
______ .                  9,100,000.00
24  100 ' 50  assava        . 011     _            1,645.06100               u 180,956.71 I
________   -  ____ ____         _____             -        180~~~~~~~~its,956.71
75 200*50V Cocoa              =             23,000.00                    3,174,000.00 180,956.71
Orange    1*   -                 70,000.00    __,_                          _  _ _  _ _
Avocado     Z                    70.000.00                     140,000 .,00
Oil Palm(L)  4                   80,000.00                     320,000.00
=-  .3,74,000.U0
_____                  ______ ______                         25,980,956.71
'.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VESTERN REGION                              PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
AUAUtKKUM
TKARM/                  SlZb                  KA] tS           IUIAL VALUt      AMUUN I
ACREAGE    KINU    L    M    S   SDLG;  L     ML         SDLG                 _  _   _   _
__  ________ Avocado   1   -              70.000.00                    70,000.00
143 ' 70 L+33 Cocoa  171              23.00000                    3,933,000.00
72 70 80 Cocoa      630                 23.000.00 _                14,490,000.00 _________
- ________ Avocado     2                  70.000.00                    140,000.00_
_______ C~~ola      1_                 70.00000                     70,000.00
________ ________  -  -  _____  -  -                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~- 14,/ITUUUUJUU
_  188 100 + 22 Cocoa  280                23,000.00                  6,440,000.00
Oil Palm(L)  3                80.000.00                    240,000.00
A___o__Avoado _  1-            70.000.00                    70,000.00
Banana     6    7             8,000.00 6,400.00             92,800.00
-   b,IS4z,uuu.uu
4 200 10U Cocoa    -276                 23,000.00   13.800.00       6,456,400.00
Orange     1         2        70,000.00   42.000.00        154,00.00
Banana     21   6             8,000.00 6,400.00            206,400.00
,-.  l   6,8186800.00
1525 570 Cocoa     120                 23,000.00                  2,760,000.00
85 t5 'Cocoa      60                 23,000.00                   1,380,000.00
260W 1 UU Cocoa   360                 23.00                       8,260,000.00 _________U_U_7
120- 50 Cocoa     84                 23,000.00                   1,932,000.00
14,352,000.00
__ _     _Oil Palm(        18                   100000.00            1,800,000.00     .
Plantain       13    2              6,400.00 4,800.00       92,800.00
.       18,928,00.00
-7          Oil Palm(L) 23               80.000.00                   1,640,000.00     .
220 U90 Teak           244             .    89,000.00           21,716,000.00
Oil Palm(A) 19                125.000.00                  2,375,000.0  _    _
9350   Cocoa                         23,000.00                  1,516,000.00
Orane                         70,000.00                    210,000.00
Cola       170,000.00                           .           70,000.00
.04L5.5MCca T"3                    23.000.00 18,400.00        2,042,400.0
Avocado    -                        56,000.00  1__          12,UUU.UU
Manaoe          1                   56,000.00      .        56,000.00
an ain        9                    6,400.00                57,600.00
Cola,      1                  70,000.00                     70,000.00
Oil Pa_m(am  9                 125.00.00                  1, 125,000.00u
____             ___  _ __ ___ _ __ __ _ __   i,4b3,uuu.uu
'.O.T.L.
-delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NESTERN REGION                      -           PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
-FARM/__________ ADADEKROM                               _                    |
- FARMi~F                 SIZES   _              RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND      L    M    S   SDLG    L     M     S     SDLG    TP            TP
300     1 00 Oil Paim(A) 41  -              125,000 00                  5,125,000.00
Mangoe      2                   70.000.00                     140,000.00
- 30 1U0U  Oil Palm(A)   32                    100.000 00            3,200,000.()0
_____             ______ _____                  -       5,455,000.00
X   463 6U   Cocoa     384    -              23.000.00                   8,53z,00.a  _
ola                            70,000.00                     140,000.00
______        .          8,97Z,000.00
T     253T1 00 Cocoa    3                    23.000.00                   8,004,000.00
________ _________ ____ ____        _____             __5_ __=____                   8,004,000.00
__________ __        __               __ ____  __= __ ________                 25,441 ,OOUO.UOO
'.O.T.L.
-delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
VESTERN REGION
CROP VALUATION
_______   ________________      GYIMAKROM
FARM/                     SIZES   _               RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
-ACREAGE      KIND      L   7F    S   SDLG    L      M      S   SDLG             P
217'553 Cocoa         15                    23.000.00                    3,566,000.0
Ur a ~~~~~~~ng F  70  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    -3,565,000.00
w        ~~Orange    61   -               70,000.00 ____4,210,000.00                    . 
=  _    4,27U,000.00
3 145 BU (_ 8 ocoa                       23,000.00 _                  3,726,0W.00
_           Cola                             70,000.00                     420,000.00
I =  =         .          4,146,000.00
4 349 1 W Oil Palm(A) 48                     125.000 00                   6,00,00.00
Mangoe      1                    70,000000           .           0,000.0
Orange                          o70.00000                      20,000.00
_ il Palm(A)  3Z                 125.00000                    4,00 0000.0
_______ Cocoa       15                   23.000.00                      345,000.0u
10,695,000.00
5 115 lUU Oil Palm(A)       1 6  __                 ,000.00              1,600,000.00
Avocado     1                    70,000.00                      70,0u00.00
70 1UU Cassava      -    .16                   1.646,061.00            263,369.(6
_   0                                 _ _                 .    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,933,369.76
Oil Palm(A)           10                      75.000.00        750,00.00
________ Banana           4                     6,400.00                 25,600.00
_____                    ___._                             775,600.00
_________  __=_____=_=_=_=_Z25,407,969.76
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                  PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
AMPONSAHKROM
FARM/                    SIZES                   RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
- ACREAGE       KIND    L     M    S       SDLG   L  M     S    SDLG             P     TP
Oil Palm(L)  -             =,               600000            448,0W.00 448,000.00
I      _ _ _ _ _                               _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _4                   4 5, 0 0 0. 0 0
2 22U T lUU Oii Palm(A  -   1                       . l00000.00        3,10A,X0.O0
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3,100,000.00
-T,2 55 Oil Paim(A) 18      31             125,00000 100,000.00         5,350,000.00
-   142 50 Cassava          .16                    1.645,061 W__          23,209.76
_                 _                    __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5,613,209.76
40 lU 30    Cassava    -    .U7                   1.645.061.00            115,154.Z7
__  L~3u  4 u   Cassava     1U5, =           =  =  .645.061.0022
_________      _____  _____  _____  ______282,253.05
6  1TTU'B  Cassava    -     .Z                   1,645,061.00            3Z9,012.20
Oil Palm(L) -    -                           48.000.00        192,000.00
__ _ __   __   __   __ _ __ _   _ _ _  _ __ _ __ _ ___  521,012.20
7   50U-U  Cassava    -    .09                   1.645.061.00           7145,055.49
=________            _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _____  _____  _____  _____              148,055.49
8  Z65D30 Cassava     0-.1                       1.f645,061.00           296,110.98
=         Oil Palm(L) T13 -               8.000.00 _    _      _       1,040,000.00
3--4U  Pineapple  u.   __              3.130260.00                    93,907.50
I =_-                                                         1,430,018.78
Oil Palm(A) 1-   5                     100,000.00            1,500,000.00
Avocado     2                   70,000.00 _ _  __      _140,000.0
Banana      8                   8,000.00 _ _   _    __64,000.00
_  X X 0 X                                                         l,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lj,u4 a.uu
lU   73Y50  Cassava     -.08                            l4X.U1 00         114,065.8
= ~   ~   _ _ _  _  .___        _    _ _   _ _   _ _                                    114,085.685
T     T10'50  Cassava       0.01                  1.645,061.00             16,450.61
12  20Y5U   Cassava    -     .23                  1,645,06100             378,364.03
Oil Palm(A) -    1    4                100,000.00 75,000.00  Z ,400,000.00
=  _  _ _   .___  _             .___         _ _               _  _                    2,778,364.03
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                  PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
AMPONSAHKROM
FARM/                     SIZES                   RATES            TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND      L    M    S    SDLG   L      M     S    SDLG   P                       P
2       T63'lU  Cocoa          =             23,000 00                    8,Z80,000.00
Avocado     2                    70.000 00                     140,000.00
_ana__4__         - --M.   8,420,000.00
_______2 Banana      4                    8.000.00                       3Z,000.00  ._48000
Plantain   25   NT    2T         8.000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00    438,4.0 0U
25U'BU Cassava     -     .                     1    645061             (56,12.0  ___
Z 3'3U  Cocoa      -4                   23.000.00                     552,000.00
Mangoe      1                    70.000.00                      70,000.00
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ =                                                       1,849,12Z8.06
= ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~~     __ =___                  1_______          I 0,9,12Z8.06
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
OPPONG VALLEY                _              __
-   T FARM/                   SIZES                   RATES    _       TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
IACREAGEI  KIND   7L     M     S   SDLG    L a      7  lS    SDL G 7 P            P 
-T 226I 00 Pineapple                        31.302Wi000                  1,596,432.60
=______ Oil Palm(L)           21                      48,00000  _1,008    ,000.00
________  ____                        ______            -       ~~~~~~~2,604,432.5
7   378-1001312-100 Oil Palm(A)   7s        125,00000 _   75,000.00        75,000.00
Mangoe          2                     56,000.00  __           112,000.00 
=                                               7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9,837,000.00
1'.50 Cocoa          6 6-                 23.000.00                    1,515,000u00 _-
Oil Palm(L)  -                        6, 000 00               384,000.00
__   ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ___                ___               -       1 ,902,000.00
4  16U'38 Teak             70                    89,000.00              6,2 30,000.00
Oil Palm(A)  6_         _       125.00000               .     750,000.00
Oil Palm(L) 3T  -                      64,000.00  _     _      192,000.00
________ _  _____ _____  _ ____  ___ _  _____   ______ _______ 7,172,000.00
5  283'62  Pineapple  0W   -n                                           1,252,104.00
_                               _  ~~_ _____                                 1,252,104.00
7    1U0072   Cocoa     102                 23.000.00  _2,346,00U. 00
Mangoe      2                  70,000.00 ____140,000.00
Avocado     1                  70.000.00                       70,000.)00
0~~~                                 89000                                  2,555,000.00
7    5U'60  Teak      .     38             .       89,000.00             3,382,000.00
=  .  .   3,382,000.00
8 123100 Oil Palm(A)  f         17        125.000.00    75,000.00  _    1,40u,000.00
67 - 73 Pineapple       0.1 1                  2,947.58000             324,231.50
=       1,124,231.60
9          Oil PaTm(A) 29                  125.00000                    3,625,000.0U
_                                    ___    0   :'0   .   .    ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3,525,000.00
D    50'50  Cassava        U_06_rA5o0.0610 0                                9j03.66   o
Oil Palm(L)  3                  80,000.00                      240,000.00_    _
=____       _____                                -         338,7U3.66
L  -I                                 -      34,33,471.86
'.O.T.L.
-delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
KWAOTAWIAHKROM
FARM/                    SIZES                  RATES            TOTAL VALUE        AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND   L   7F    S    SDLG   L     M      S    SDLG              .             P
T 293*70L+28 Oil Palm(A) 4  -               125.000 00                  5,75,000.00
=15U 10UU Cassava   -                          1.645.06100            559,320.74
_     __  _      _Coconut  2            80.000.00                      160,000.00__
_______  Orange     1                   70,00000            7_,000.00_
= -                                                                                      6_______  ________  ______  -   b,654,320.74
2 13810u0 cocoa      12- -                23,000.00                    4,41,   .006,000.00
3  98'T1  Cocoa      132                  23.00000                     3,036,000.00
_                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,u36,U00.00
41541 o  Cocoa                          23.000.00                    4,830,000.00
= -                                                                              -       4,t30,000.00
Plantain   T0w  T3__        _   8,000.00 6,400.00             941,200.00
,__._                                        947,200.00
'   5  1005UL Plantain  158,000.00                                     1,320,000.0u-
330-50/100'56  2a2 ZZ8   7               23_000.00 18O400.00          ,679200.00
i _______ =______ _  =2W  7_7,999,200
7  1 Ub'5U cassava        U.12                  1.*645.061 00           1971,4U07.3Z
Plantain        46                    6,400.00                294,400.00
-  I52  Pineapple  U.U7               3.130.26000 ,                  219,11T.0_
____                      _____  _____________      710,925.52
13=72 Cassava            U.23                   1.645.06100            375,364.03
-    01 U'b6  Pineapple          -     -5        2,947,560.00            442,134.00
Avocado     1                   70,000.00 __        _u,000.00_
- 341TWU o    0 coa-                    23.000.00             _    10, 764,000.00
=___   =___  _____                       ______                   11,654,495.03
-___ '      ____ ___ _         _    ___                -___405,4.2
'.O.T.L.
,defikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
KWAOTAWIAHKROM            _-
-   FARM/                     SIZES                  RATES            TOTAL VALU E      AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S    SDLG   L      M     S    SDLG             P        1P
38560 Cocoa         318                   23.000.00                   7,314,000.00
---7,314                                        000.00
T   145 'O  Cocoa     16Z                  23.000.00    _3,7(2,000.00
Oil PaIm(A)      -              125.00000 ____625,000.00
Plantain              5                      4,800.00          24,000.00_
_ _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4,3(5,000.00
TT 144W 5U' Cocoa               ___   _      23,000.00                   2,346,000.00
_____           -      ~~~~~2,;34b,U00.00
12 1_1_Z6ZL Cocoa     96                    23,000.00                   2,208,000.00
Plantain  3O                    8,000.00                  -    4U,UUU.U_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   ____ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ ____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _2 ,4 4 6,0 0 0 .0 0
T385 * 5OU30'50S Cocoa  6   -    18        23,000.00    13.80000        12,628,400.00_
_____      -       1~~~,626,400.0U
l 485 3 MUE Cocoa     4U2                   23,000.00                    9,24b,00U.0_
Orange      2-                  70,000.00                     140,000.00
Plantain   14                   8,000.00                      112,000.00
______        .          9,498,000.00
T5          Oil PaIm(AT     20    5                100,000o00 75,000.00  2,375,000.00
ZU-30M  Pineapple      .. 1                   2,947,56000              29,415.60__
l0'1-looio-80s Cocoa  1 3 8 108          23,00000 18,400. D           5-161,200.0_
Orange      Z    2              70,000.00 56,000.00           252,0 0.00
-       7,61 (,675.bU
16 WWIU     Cocoa      -423,000.00                                        552,00.0 i/81767
=                     ==_                                       =552,00.0
______          -     ~~35,242,275.5
'.O.T.L.
delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORi,
NESTERN REGION                        PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
-        HIAGONO                  _-
-FARM/              SIZES              RATES         TOTAL VALUE   AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND   L   M ; S  SDLG   L   - M   S   SDLG         P           P
__  ______ _ 7 Oil Palm  (A)5           100.000.00         500,000). 00
Mango    1                70.00000       _   _,000.00__      __ __ __ __
__  __ _ =_ __ _  -   -___                                      -       510,000.00
1 _ 2UT7UL  Oil Palm (A)  1 1    125.000 00             1, 375,000.00
_-=    1 ,3(5,u00.00
| 3 385'70UL Oil Palm (A) 37  -     125.00000              4,625,0W.W
I -                -    -           _____     _____ ______        -     4,bZ5,000.00
I-                  -_         __e___                               :       -
H___              ________                                        __
=..TL
de==i==e=
=~~~~ 



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
NVESTERN REGION                                 PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
POKUKROM
FAR M/                   SIZES                   RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    F    S    SDLG   L     M      S   SDLG         _P               P
T 150 * 5U  L Pineapple  0.17              313026000 ____                53,Z144.20
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~~~__                        .            532,144.20
1 T4W   03C Pineapple  U.1 6      -    -   3130.2600 _   __UU,_41
_____        _____ _____            -         500,841.60
30L Pineapple  0T                   3.130.26000                   219,1 1U. 0__
.____               .            219,119.20
U 1' !5L3U    Pineapple  U. 1 2              3.130.20000     _     _      375,631.Z0
_____  _____  _____               -        ~~~315,631.20
_ 110'5UL Pineapple     0 .  -               3130.200        3    75,.0
_ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   __ ___     _            .__                    -         Z6,052.OU
__Oil Palm(L) --TF-             80,000-00    _____ _____      BO,u00.0u
7            C)il Palm(L)  12  -             80.000.00                    9b0,000.0
-   235T 100L Cocoa    318                   23.000.00                   7,314,000.00
Oil Palm(A)  10  4    Z5        125,000 00 100,000.00 75,000.00  3,525,000.00
_____~~ ~ ~ ~ ._ _   _ __ _ _                11,799,000.00
=____                                            13,394,853.4U
-delikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
nJESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE
CROP VALUATION
1BOGOSO (OMISSIONS BETWEEN PILLARS 122 - 127)
FARM/                    SIZES   _              RATES            TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
-ACREAGE      KIND     L    M     S   SDLG    L     M     S    SDLG T   ~       P            P
_    _      Oil Palm(A) 26  10             125.000 00 100,000.00        4,250,000.00
4,250,U00.00
_         _ Oil Palm(A) 32                 125.00000    .               4,000,000.00
.   -   4,UUU,00U.00
i 3        Oil Palm(A)  8-                 125,00000                     uu 1,000,000.00
I  -.__    _   _ _ _ _ _ _                                       _ _                    1,000,000.00
Oil Paim(A)  6                  125.00000                    750,000.00_
Oil PaIm(L)  4                  80,000.00                    320,000.00
I --                         --                                                         1,0(0,o0O.00
Oil Palm(A) Z1  12W   5         125.000 00 100.000.00 75,000.00   4,200,000.00
-  ______  -      4,Z00,000.00
Oil Palm(A) 16                  125,00.00 00                Z,000,000.W
7 ___  _Oil Palm(A) T7   10             125,000.00 100,000.00        3,1 5,000.00
C oco nut   7                   8,00.00560U,UUU.00
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,b685,000.00
|? _      _ _ l Palm(L) 1Z  11             80,000.00 6400000,000.00 .1,64,00.
= ______ Oil Palm(A l U0  6              1     _25.000.00 100,000.00  1,850,000.00
-w _______ CN         -3                    00.00000                     300,000.00    3
=        OPL1380.000.00 -_T  -                                       1,040,000.00 1_U_U_UUU_U
OR      -     -                 70.00000                      t 70,000.0W
_______                 ____                   _____                         -      1,410,000.00
T           OP   -      1                   80.000.00                    880,000.00
CN          1                   ,0 00 100,0000     _    _1      ,000.00 _
980,000.00
11          O          6                    70.000.00         .__        420,000.00       _
=____                    _____                  - _420,000.00
T2  22U'bU Ca               0.- 3    _            1.^45.06100            493,518.30
PL         44   23   17         8,000.00 6,400.00 4,800.00   580,800u00
O-L                                   64,00000               512 a,0.0o
_____       _____    =__                                 ___=                         1,586,318.30
= _______                                                                          Z 8_______   _____  _____  _____   ______________   25,115,318.30
.O.T.L.
ofelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE.
CROP VALUATION
BOGOSO (OMISSIONS BETWEEN PILLARS 122 -127 & PILLAR 57-59)
FARM/                   SIZES      _           RATES           TOTAL VALUE      AMOUNT
- AREAGE      KIND     T L  M    S   SDLG   L     M      S    SDLG            P            P
20T20  Yam  0-01T                          2033343                 20,333.43
-    ~   ~140'1 00 CA                            1.645.061 00          526,419.52
_______ 3(PL                           80.000.00 64,000 00          512,000.00
_______  ~PL       26   14             8,000.00 6,400.00           029,600.0U
1~~  ~~  -  -              1,645.06100 _____            - ~~~~~~~~1,356,352.95
141 70_40  CA_0 .06 __5 61_00                                          98,703.66
OPL             9                    64,000.00             576,000.00
CN              -          -   00 000_ 00 ___    ____      100,000.00
. ______ PL  .      4                  8,000.00                      32,000.00
_____  _____      ______            ______________      806,703.66
_           CN       27                   10000000_                 2,(00,000.00
_           MA              2                   56,000.00              112,000.00
AVP        1                   70,000.00                    70,000.00
_______ ~OPL        -                        64,000.00        _     576,000. 00
- 3,458,000.00
20_I5      CA             0.01                 ,645,061 00             16,450.61T
OPL             1 1                  64.00000              704,0t0.00  _________
20_35  YAM            0.02 2_036_343.00                            40,726.86
_____  .____                   ______________     761,177.47
17                           -             eo.oooo  ____  _              20,OPL  9  800000.00  720,W0.00 __
OR              -              56,00000                     56,000.00
OPA             1 4  3               100,000.00 75,000.00  1,625,000.00
=                                                               Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,401,U000.0
__ _ _ __                 _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _8,U2Z,05b.61
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
WESTERN REGION                                  PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINEON
CROP VALUATION
PRESTEA
FARM/                     SIZES                  RATES             TOTAL VALUE       AMOUNT
-     ACREAGE   KIND    L    T     S   SDLG    L    M      S    SDLG   T          P    TP
_          UOil Paim(A)  2                  125.00 00 __                  25,000.00_
Coconut     36   2  _      __    oo.occo 80.00000            3,7/60,0U.00
Banana          12               8.000.00 6,400.00             1 88,______  18u,00.00uu
2          Plantain   3T 7   T    22       8,000.00 6,400.00 3,600.00     74U,000.00
l = -          Banana     19 =                 8,000.00 6,400.00                        _    W_ 93U,4UU.00
-    12U 8U Cassava     -   0-.                                            14645.061000  3601 ,4704
361,913.42
Coconut     32                   ,000-00                         0,000.00  3ZUUUUU
=3,200,0U0.00
-~~~ ~~ 8___  ____ -                                                        ,691,113.42
P.O.T.L.
cdelikem



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION                              ,
TWIFU_KYEBI/OPPONSO__                            _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _  __ _  _ _  __  _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _
IFARMI M/           SIZES                 RATES               T_O_TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT        AMOUNT PAID
ACREAGE KIND        L    M    S    SDLG   L      M      S     SDLG  0       P                      PP
1 176 * 100 Cocoa      240         = __     23,000.00                 5,520,000.00
Oil Palm (L)  5     7 _     __   80,000.00 64,000.00 .     848,000.00
=50 * 50  Pineapple  0.06                 3.130.260.00              187,815.60 _
_80 * 50  Cocoa        54                 23,000.00                 1,242,000.00 _
100 * 50  Cocoa                 66 _                    13.800.00  910,800.00  8_0865.044           _565
8,708,615.60   445,456.50
2 160 * 50  Pineapple  0.18                3.130.260.00        .      563,446.80
Oil Palm (L)  3                _ 80,000.00                 240,000.00
Orane               1                   56,000.00           56,000.00 _
-    859,446.80      429,723.40
3 130* 100 Pineapple    0.3                3.130.260.00        _      939.078.00 _
________ Oil Palm (L)  4    7             80000 64000               768.000.00 _
_  _____                                                          -   1,707,078.00     853,539.00
4 150 * 100 Pineapple  0.34                3130260                    1,064,288.40  .  .
150 * 100 Oil Palm (A)  7  21            125000 100000              2,975,000.00
=____ _____ _____                -    4,039,288.40   2,019,644.20
5 190 * 100 Pineapple  0.44           ___ 3130260                     1,377,314.40
= _______ Oil Palm (L)     14     3              64000 48000        1,040,0000.00
= ______ Oil Palm (A)       4    14             100000 75000        1,450,000.00
205 * 100 Pineapple  0.47                3130260                    1,471,222.20
= _______ Oil Palm(L)       18 _64000                               1,152,000.00
I=-                                         6,490,536.60   3.373,617.00
6 165 * 100 Pineapple  0.38                3130260                    1,189,498.80 .
= _______ Oil Palm (L)      14                   64000              896,000.00                        - _
-    2,085,498.80   1,042,749.40
7 200 * 100            0.45               13130260                    1,408,617.00
= _______ Oil Palm (L)  3   4     7 _       80000 64000 48000       832,000.00
________ Oil Palm (A)  8    4             125000 100000     _       1,400,000.00
_________                                      _____ _____        -   3,640,617.00   1,820,308.50
8          Oil Palm (L)        8                   64000              512,000.00
________ Oil PalmIA)            20                     75000       1,500,000.00
_50 * 30  Pineapple       0.03                 _ 2947560             88.426.80             _
______ _  ____ _____  ____  _ ___  __ __  ___ _  ____ _  ____ _  ____   _____ ______ ___ 22100,426.80  1,050Q213.40
= _______  ___________  _____  _____  _____  _____  _______   e_____  ______  _____  ___________  29,631,508.00  14 ,8 15 ,754 .00
PMC's1-? 4 fWl 4- S 9.  41S-flS' Kf'/..tfl(2o2)                                                            ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
TWIFU KYEBI/OPPONSO
I FARM/                  SIZES                  RATES                     TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT         #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L L   M    S     SDLG  L      M       S     SDLG          P                #VALUE!
22 260 * 100 Cocoa        360   16              23000 18400               8,574,400.00
________ OPA            6                   125000                    750,000.00
- _          AVP             4                   70000          =          280,000.00
-   ________ OR              7                   70000                     490,000.00
I -   ________ MA             1                   70000                      70,000.00
I _______ CASHEW         1                   85000               _     85,000.00
T ________ ___________ _____               ______               _____        -    10,249,400.00  5,051,200.00
1_23         OPA           45   12    20       125000 100000 75000        8,325,000.00
________                             _____                                   -    8,325,000.00   4,162,500.00
1 24 166 * 100 Pineapple   0.38                  3130260                    1,189,498.80
OPL                  2                    64000              128,000.00
= _______            ____            _____                                   -    1,317,498.80     658,749.40
25           Plantain      13                    8000              _      104,000.00
= _______ OPL            4                   80000 _320,000.00
Cocoa         11                   23000                     253,000.00 _
-    677.000.00       338,500.00
1_26         OPA                      36 _75000                           2,700,000.00
- =   ______                                                     _   ____        -    2,700,000.00   1,350,000.00
27 143 * 100 Pineapple         0.33                   2947560  _          972,694.80
- =___                                                                           -     972,694.80      486,347.40
28          AVP             3                  100000          =          300,000.00            _
MA             1                   70000                      70,000.00
OPL            7                   80000                     560,000.00             _
_______              ____                    _____                     -     930,000.00      465,000.00
1 29 117 * 100 OPA           16                  125000                     2,000,000.00 _
I___ =___                             ____         -    2,000,000.00   1,140,000.00
| 30 117 * 100 OPA           16                  125000                     2,000,000.00
OR             41                  70000                     280,000.00
____ ____               ______ _____ ____          -    2,280,000.00   1.140,000.00
31 110 *60   Pineapple         0.15                   2947560             442,134.00
OPA                      12                      75000       900,000.00 _
I -  _ __  ___  ___   ___ __  ___ _  ___1,342,134.00  671,067.00
________ I __________ I____ I_      _ 1_                _ _I_I_I     I           1 30,793,727.60  15,396,863.80
'/t/S1 4- ~/ 4S{ . 4}L2S"rz9cS3O1f(2l091j7                                                                   ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
TWIFU KYEBI/OPPONSO
FARM/               SIZES                  RATES                    TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND        L     M    S    SDLG   L      M      S     SDLG               P            #VALUE!
32          OPL           26                  80000                     2,080,000.00
OPA                     16                     75000        1,200,000.00
300 *50  Cocoa        204                  23000                     4,692,000.00
7,972,000.00     3,986,000.00
33 108* 100 Cocoa        150                  23000                     3,450,000.00
1400 * 100 OPA         55                  125000                    6,875,000.00 _
170 * 63  Cocoa       144                  23000                     3,312,000.00 
________ OPA           17        19       125000        75000        3,550,000.00
= ______ OR             2                  70000                     140,000.00 _
_______ Cocoa          18                  23000                     414,000.00 _
Kola          14                  70000                     980,000.00
________ AVP            2                  70000                     140.000.00
________ MA             1                  70000          -           70,000.00
= _______ OPL           4                  80000                     320,000.00 l
= ______ CN             1-         1      100000        60000        160.000.00
1140*100  Cocoa       192                   23000                    4,416,000.00
=    23,827,000.00  12.909.500.00
34 200 * 62  Cocoa       168                  23000                     3,864,000.00
= _______ __________                _____ ______ ______                     -    3,864,000.00   1,932,000.00
35 216 * 100 OPA          30                 125000                     3,750,000.00
_  _                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,750,000.00  1.875.000.00
36 211 * 100 Cocoa       288                  23000          =          6,624,000.00
OPL           1 8                 80000       _             1,440,000.00
-    8,064,000.00   4.032,000.00
37_         OPA           1 8                125000                     2,250,000.00
________ __________ ____ ____             ______ ______             __________   2,250,000.00   1,125.000.00
__________ ____ ____                             -                     49,727,000.00  24,863.500.00
CO/. O' 4s v 4W.s-c9wy3,2/                                                                               ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
MBR I     __ __ _
lVIE ! FARM/  :  SIZES          RATE               TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT  #ALOE
iACREAGE           MI  SI SLG L      MI   I~SDLG    L             p    #ALE
_  21 0_ __                                      _ 02.50.000.00
-  19 100                                         -  3.625  000.00  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
V- t48*50-f- C )coa _ _ f_ . n l _ __82.346.000.00
-   12714,000.00 635
400* 100  OPA   56       7    -fi500              7555000000.00  __ __
.1091 100 Pineapple  025  =3130260                -782.565.u8 07 6 0   413725
31163*50    l;PMaDDIe IZ 007         2947560       206320
___IeaDI |____       I E61   1 1  138_  m       fL=   5 075 00.0 _____________________
013I                            - I  1250   OO O01  5000007400
_                                         7 30010  OA410 0 -  4.200.000.00 425
880          1/02-100CPA C 7 C gg 10000_=    3.075.000 00_
Ocoa~~ - 5__                        __ 2484000.00
-  -      _    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~601           .1566.
.~~178
=-c Or a           35           . ..                 70.000003.520.000. 00 -
-ano  -  _    _    _ 7zQ1Q0QQQ0                   _   _   _
__Plan7                     _                  AP 1347300000 _ uu
300*100-OPA   42              10____         345209000.00     _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4,256000.0   218000
801012=0 OPAL11                1006000               3.607.000.007.20000 39.0.0
80*10Q    10             2300 2___484600          0000   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
=_   _       .l       D  -__  - 72                          69.584.709.20 3754
pLr7S~ 4* w' 4.X$ 9k 41LS1iL9.S'S9O)17XiYAC4oo2                                  ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
M BRAIM   ,_                _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _ _  _ _    _  _  _  _ _  _ _  _
FARM/               SIZES                  RATES __                 TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND        L    M     S    SDL.G  L      M      S     SDLG  0       P                  #VALUE!
1 1 402* 100  Cocoa     552                   23000                     12,696,000.00   .
Kola          4                   70000                     280,000.00
_ AVP            5                   70000                     350,000.00
Manao          1                  70000                      70,000.00
OPL                     14    l                48000        672,000.00
-    14,068,000.00  7.034,000.00
12          Cocoa        86                   23000                     1,978,000.00
_ _______ OR            1                  70000                      70,000.00
CN             1                  70000                      70.000.00
OPL            1                  80000             _        80,000.00
-       2,198,000.00   1,099.000.00
13          Cocoa        72   -               23000                     1,656,000.00  .  ._             .
OPA     _          10                   100000              1,000,000.00
PL             5                   8000          __          40,000.00
D100*100  PNP        0.23                 3130260      r ___         719,959.80 |           ______B_|1,079 _
._____ _____                    3,415,959.80   1,707.979.90
19,681,959.80  9,840,979.90
/~S5> 4. (e1i 4SJSYAh.CJ5i(2oo)2                                                                             ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
DANYASE     -      _                                                               .       .
FARMI                SIZES                  RATES                      TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L    M     S    SDLG   L      M       S     SDLG  0        P           p      #VALUE!
1 80*80    CassaVa           0.15                    1645061             246,759.15
80*80    CoCovam           0.15                    1556756             233.513.40
11_____ |OPA                  7   22 I       I      100000 0750        2,350,000.00 I_.___
- -                                   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,830,272.55  1,415,136.28
2 162*80   PNP           0.3                 3136260-                    940.878.00    ._)
I_______ OPL            8                    80000                     640,000.00   15088079430
______              ~~~~~~- -1,580,878.00  790,439.00
3 200*100  CoCoa        276                   23000                      6,348,000.00  .
AVP            4                   70000                      280,000.00   _
OPL           18     7   16        80000 64000 48000          2,656,000.00 _
_______BA            16            ___     8000 ____-                128,000.00 
= ______ OR              3                   70000      _              210,000.00
_   183*100   CoCoa        114                   23000                      2,622,000.00
105*100  CoCoa        144                   23000                      3,312,000.00
-     _3_                                                                          -    15,556,000.00   7,778,000.00
4 100*78   CoCoa         108  -    -   _    1 23000 I_I_I32,484,000.00 1_                                ___
OPL            4   -         __     00     ___     -     -    320,000.00              ________
Kota           1                   70000                       70,000.00 _
Or             1                   70000                       70,000.00  2_944_000_00_   1_472_-000_00
________ __________   ____   ______                       ~~~~~~~~~~- 2,944,000.00  1,472,000.00
5 300*100  OPA                -41                    100000              4,100,000.00
300*100  CassaVa           0.69   -                1645061             1,135,092.09
II                                                     _-                           5,235,092.09    2,617.546.05
6 268*100  Cassava           0.62                   . 1645061             1,019,937.82
I_______ COCOa         75                    23000                     1,725,000.00
= _______ kola           1                   70000                      70    .00 00
I_______ =_________                                ______                     -    2,814,937.82     1,407,468.91
7          OPA           44         32        125000_       75000        7,900,000.00 _
100*86   Pineapple     0.2_                3130260                     626,052.00
banana        22                    8000        _             176,000.00
________ __________                             -    8,702,052.00    4,351,026.00
=_______  ___________  ____                         ______              ___________  39,663,232.46  19 .831,616.23
/'A?/St 4. ()~?7/ 43'S 7Aw 4US  9OLtRV?.,1w (2002)                                                              ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
FARM/                    IM   IS   ISDLG I R KTSIZE                 TOTALVALUE AMOUN           #V L
ACREAGEKIND       L     -m   S    SDLG- L       M           SL            p           P           U
8           IOCLPA     |12I036       38              1000   750         645 000.00S
PL      102                   8000                     1 ~86 40 0.00-W
AVP  1                                     ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~70000u.00
-    .13            700     5620278.2
83*71  Y                                     15567561         --s00.841.6
85*8    |PP           0.I 16|              3 l  l  13 02601  |-I  T           I 8039219.8     401 401   
9 220*60   OC oam        03                  1940426                   5 i27.8
P I           26                    00 j  2                    G 00.0
Ba            44                   82. X
OPL             -          -    80000                     80000.0   14278                6
1  8 76       ocoa        781 -                                         1 794 000.00
Ko I.a            -     -    -    70000                     140009.0
Ba           -2-8                  800022400
ICoa -1                      -      23000                   4   0.
Kota -'                       -   70000                     140        2               35 00.0
PA                                               3250000~~~~~~00.00
uAVP          1...     -7
L        ~~~28                 80
aPA           4       ___5                                 so_-------
13-  85* 0              016                   1  
L       ~~~3
P1 6 . 01i 48 k 11VLW2002)                                                                               ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
DANYASE
FARM/                SIZES                  RATE-                     TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L    M     S     SDLG  L       M      S     SDLG         P           P      #VALUE!
14           PL            24       _            8000 _                   192.000.00 _
________ CN              1                  100000                     100.000.00                        -
I ______                  ____                              -     -          -     292.000.00      146.000.00
I  151____     PL             9            ___     8000          -     -     72,000.00 ______
I -  ____ CN                  1 I_I_I 100000                           -    100,000.00 C           __I_I____
_          MA            2                   70000                     140.000.00 _
SWT APPLE      2                   40000 _                    80,000.00             _
= ______ IBA             8 _                  8000                      64,000.00
I_______ __________ _____ _____             ______ ______                     -    456,000.00      228,000.00
16      I     CN            3                  100000                     300,000.00  _
= _______ CITRUS         1                   70000                      70.000.00
I_______               -  ____                                                -    370.000.00      137,302.60
17          C ON            2                  100000_                    200.000.00
_   _ FEEEWE  |MA        3        -          70000 I_     I I_         210.000.00            1               3
_______OR          -  1                    70000 ____-               70,000.00
I   I         SAPPLE         1                   40000                      40 000.00
= ______ IGUAVA          1                   40000                      40.000.00
;___ X X-                       560,000.00      280.000.00
18          CN              1                  100000                     100000.00
BA            14                     8000                    112,000.00
30*30    PNP          0.02                  3130260      _              62,605.20
_         I                                         _                               274,605.20      137.302.60
19           PL            10 =       12         8000         4800 =      1 137,600.00  137600 00  _328.000_00
-    137,600.00       328,000.00
20 I         BA             6                    8000                      48,000.00             _
_______CN             1   -    -100000 _            __-             100.000.00
= ___I___CPL           44          40         8000         4800Q -     544.000.00
_ _______ SSAPPLE        2                   40000                      80,000.00
55*20    PNP          0.23                 13130260                    719,959.80
I-   1491,959.80      745979.90
2 1          OPA           16                  125000                     2,000,000.00 _
= _______ ___________ _____ _____    _____                            __________ 2,000,000.00     1.000.000.00
=_________                                        -      -               5,582,165.00   2.791.082.50
PaW.22'7A. (A?U A&9 7&-A2sl9-S3St2-9OJ1i/2oo2)                                                               ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
DANYASE                                     __-
IFARM!               SIZES                  RATES                     TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
IACREAGE KIND        L    M     S    SDLG   L      M      S     SDLG          P            p      #VALUE!
22 1         OPA          75    40                   __125000 100000     13,375,000.00
250*80   PineaDple    0.46  -              3130260                    1,439,919.60
Cn             1          -       100000                     100,000.00                          -
______                     -    14,914,919.60   7.457,459.80
23 l        OPA                 46   12          ___ 100000 75000        5,500,000.00
345*80   PNP         0.63                  3130260                    1,972,063.80
I_______ OR             -1                  70000                      70,000.00
CO            2                   23000                      46,000.00
I                                                               _            -    7,588,063.80    3.794,031.90
241____      OPL            4  -     -100000'                             400,000.00_____________
_______ 1PL                 - 12-            8000         r     ____96.000.00_
OPA       ___            12                     75000        900,000.00
I_____                                 1,396,000.00      698,000.00
______ .____             23,898,983.40  11.949.491.70
Pk'S5' 4. cTh ASI 416MfS-J10f7-YW2 (2002)                                                                       ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
ESAASE
IFARMI    I      SIZES          RATES              TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT AVAL
IACREAGEKN     L   M  -S   SDLG L    mL   jj  SDLG    -  P g           #A
1  7   100        168O            230        -       2I484I000.00  _  ________I1.0. _
_       OPA      21            _2S000              2 625 000.00 2 625 000100 13125500000
2_  _   OPA        21 __  16 -               -       2,625,000.00  250000.00
___          4 2.625.000.00 L
3        OPA     1 3   I         1      _            3.725.000.00
I      O 1 7*1                            = -      400 00000 37250000.00  1.86500.00
OPA  -7 4278 14-125000100000-           46212.000.00 3Z02i500 0
989*65 I - PNP880 Cocoa          330260              403 800 00000
=  40*10 IP    :< Or8 700                           140.000.00
____            -~~~~~~~~~~~ 4.418 000.00IZZ   I
89*65  CPAS0 13                    76506     _8575.0030
76-82               84~__   ___               1.15920000
OPL   9    1                                 88.00.00 70
AVP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 65 7917376293908
-7i2*60Ii -'Cass`Z       ___     __1645061-           4   .1_____
~      Z 386*100 - -~                 1       w -  12,280,000.00 2.042.706.10  93J9.1
=      ~~~~OPA    18     -250000         2=250000.0012420 02
QPA       49   9         12500010000072.250.00000               125000
8AZZ             3y7  1                  _         6.025.000.00 
I                     -  ~~~~~~6.025.000.00  3ZI .012 IQDI.0
420*10- G3130200-                             13.248000.00      _     _
- 9* 65SS    __z    0.13             1645061  -   -
70*80 ~  -  -                   -   12282 000.00 14.658.791.73 IhI7I-3203
_________             _____ I-                         12.432.000.00 621. W
T1     O~~~PAIZZ  49  ~         125I ___ I0Q~ 100000  7.025.000.00  ________
ziQIIIl.  v.a.. -   JJ-     -   __ 1645061     -   23.
70*80  m       0~...Q13  -___ 155675620            88
__ __ _ _  _ __ __ _   _ _ ____ ___  7 441.236.21  3
= ________  =___________  _____  .____  _____ -62.438.734.04          31 219.367.02
J2AC'/1SA  . (f?1/. 4 k 4r St.  LS1 -fl9 XS3 ~f2On2i                             ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
ESAASE
11FARM/              SIZES                  RATES                      TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
IACREAGE KIND        L    M     S    SDLG   L      M      s      SDLG         P           P      #VALUE!
12          S. Apple       1                   40000                      40,000.00      _              _
=           OPL            1    12             80000 64000                848,000.00
Guava               1                     32000               32,000.00
Pi            10         22         8000         4800        185,600.00  ____                     -
180*40    PNP         0.07                 3130260              _   _219,118.20
________  __________                    _                                         1,105,600.00     552,800.00
131         Mango         15                   70000                      1,050,000.00
auava          1                   40000                      40,000.00                   _
_ _____ ( OPL               26                     64000               1,664,000.00                _
2,754,000.00     887,000.00
141         OPA           30                  125000                      3,750,000.00
_ _______ CO           76                   23000                      1,748,000.00          _
KOLA           1                   70000                      70,000.00                       _
_ _ ____ AVP            2                   70000                     140,000.00 _
_ _______ OPL           1                   80000               ____ 80.000.00    _
_ ______ OR             2                   70000       _              140,000.00 0.0
BA            29                    8000                     232,000.00  _
___ __  _ __ _ _   _ _   _ _ _   ___-  6,160,000.00  2.275.000.00
15          OPA _               17                   100000   =           1,700,000.00      __-_                -
=80*80    PNP          0.5                  3130260                 _  1,565,130.00
= _______ PAWPAW        2                    6000       _               12,000.00
= _______ AVP         _       7            _    _  56000    _          392.000.00            _      ___
PL            10                    8000                       80,000.00
=                _                                                                 3,749,130.00    1.874.565.00
16 100*83   Cocoa        114                   23000                      2,622,000.00
___Ba         27                    8000                     216,000.00
________ AVP            2_                  70000                      140,000.00
_ _______ OPW           6                   80000               .      480.000.00
________  ___________  _______  ______  ______  _____  3,458,000.00  3,040.118.20
17,226,730.00  8.613.365.00
Pk'l/S2 A.  1 489 S'I .l  flJSW S.9Ofl4 7' (20042                                                              ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION                                __I
ESAASE       _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
FARM/               SIZES                  RATES                      TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L    M    S     SDLG  L       M      S     SDLG         P                   #VALUE!
17 |        Plantain      48                    8000 _384,000.00 _
1 00*75  ePnp       |0.                    3 l _l_l130260 _   r _|_ |  532.144.20
104*75   Cocoa         72  -   __    __     23000 ____-               1,656,000.00
___      ~~OPL                    -          80000                -    320,000.00
PL  1  4  l  l    1 8()00        |     1     1    _  -  2,892,144.20   1 446,072.10
1_8   O_ OPL             1 6i  -          -    80000 ___                 1,280,000.00 ___________
-I-                   ______ ______              __________   1,280,000.00     640 000.00
___E_-                                 4,172,144.20    2,086.072.10
1'MCS5_4. (XIL 4-L 'o                                                                                         ELIKEM
_  _  __-.                  l



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
ASIKUM A    -__   _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _    __ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _
FARMI             SIZES i      ___ RATES                 -  TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT      #VALU
-  ACREAGE TINIDZSZ KL  M    S   SDLG L      1                       P Z            *VALU
1____  _OPA          7    2           1 25000 1____          .075.000.00  105000_57500
OPA    I     27  47   16_      125000 10  70 _       9.275.000.00 92.00____0
3_    _ Co_ -coa    22                 23000                           9275000.00  4z637.5000Q
_        OR           2~~ 4 _   17000o600 0                   40 .000.00.
8               1 __          -    -    1,600.000.00
__          OPA              45 _         1.500.000.00_ 2.512.000.00                    1 256.000.007
________  _____ _____                    - ~~~~1 00004.15004.0000.000hZ.00~~
4   OPA          45      =            __             4.500.000.00~-1250  4.500.000.00  2.250.060000
5         OPA         33_               12S000       =         4125.000.00
11 5*46  pnaie     0.16     ___3130260                       500__-    _41____
I 115 w  lpineaDDle T  r   l    l    131: D260 |        e  |      -   4.625.841.60  2.312.2m
6 100*60  PineaDDle  0.14             3130260                43 48.236.4 _  _
=100*100 Cocoa        13                 23000        =  -     3.1 74.000.00 362264    .0. 82
- 00* 100Cocoa18__                     230                   3.174.000.00
_____  _____  _____2_             000. 00
-lantaln  -4  L  800  _iYzUU(J3.366.000.00  1.683.000.00
OPA        --
_ _ _   ________  ~ ~ ~   IV  _ _ __~  3__   9___7 
OPA i~1~.~iI ~i~i~i~iZ Z~1~  13__  3130260           1449000.00 _975000.00    487.500.00
Cocoa       16                 2=                    368.00000 - 
10 1100*30  PineaDDle- 0.07              31 30260               219.11 182
IOP oco           __2    3230000 14449 .00!0.00
AVP                                                   70100 -  0-  2.090.118.20  1I.045.591
1 1 0*80   Cocoa      120                23000        -         2.760.000.00        _
______              1   14                ______ 340026.000.00
___                             -vvv             -             3 72000 10725 000.00
1_2        Plantain        117     _   ___                  -    4826,000 .0            .  .oo
17   0   OPWm      |   5 0.32    _           1556756      -              _    _1 2
. 5            _                                     _    _    _    _   _:
_________________  ____  _____  _____      _________   ~~1.6 46.961.92  8 3 480 
= ______  _________  ____  ____  ____  _____  ______                   36,125.196.20  1  8.062.598.10
pk'.{L- 4- (I M- t4-9 J I 4 LslIS0 'S(AfL rl t {'22)                                            ELIKEM
WV* .             &      7



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA.OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
ASIKUMA                                                                                     _
FARM/                 SIZES                  RATES                      TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT          #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND          L    M     S     SDLG  L       M      S     SDLG        - P          P      #VALUE!
13      _    OPA           20    11    16       125000 100000 75000         4,800,000.00
____ _____             ______                             -    4,800,000.00   2.400.000.00
14           OPA                 16_                   100000    -          1,600,000.00                        -
80*50     Pineapple    0.09                  3130260                    281.723.40
I -                                          _      _                           -    1,881,723.40      940,861.70
15 185*50    Cocoa         60 |  13              23000 _        _____       1,380,000.00 _         |    _      _
OPW         ___     13       ______64000            -832,000.00_____________
l_____ =_________ _2,212,000.00                 1.106,000.60
i -.
=_____                          8,893,723.40    4.446,861.70
I'A?X-S5-'4. 601 4Si 'W4LSOhL1(o2                                                                                 ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
FARM/            SIZES         BAA TIANEHA               TOTAL VALUE AMOT       #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND     L   M    S   SDLG i      MSDL _Z                P       P      VALUE!
___  ______ OPA     63-      131-00        _75000          8,850.000.00_________
F  T   ItDP|PL     38                     _____ 13                  _ 1 8 s t
=  _ _ _ _  BA        9g                 8 _____        -g
_ _ _ _ _ _  A V P  1             7_ _--L                      V L_          _  _ _ _ _
A10_u  9.296.000.00  4.648.000 00
_ 236*65   Cocoa     210         1      23000                4,830 000.00
_  ~    ~~~ OR           4           _ 10                  224 Q000 0
AVP          1                nn                   80,000 0Q
_____                         .      5.134.000.00  2.567.000.00
180*70  Cocoa     180               23000-                4140 000.00
AVP        1I     I          7000        -70 000
________      _____            _____           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 4.210.000.00 Zi2,1051000iM
4 118*70  Cocoa     114    -- --23_000                     21622o000.00 
_ _ _ _ _ _ A V P  1    _  _  _ _  7i~ i O___O      -      Z . L0  _ _ _ _ _
_i.$2  *10  ooa0II2~1~ ______                                6.486.000.00 2.692.000.00 1Z346Z00000
6 206*100 Cocoa     282               23001 66                       640000 00
If77*100              _____      -  _______       -    -        -   14865000.00  3 243 00W0 0
467*100 |Cocoa    I I 2I   I    I    12FFa@ 
_L                           2000         -   -              _    _
_          (PLPWa 3IZIZI  1  2        - 0 
_    __-                                              -             2.708.000.00  1 70400000
7 420*100 Cocoa     576               23000                 2.484000.00
_    A   VQPW       8           _-               -    -    6__.0
OP         5   14ooo 1100                         5.425.000.00
_       ~~~~PL  ~   ~55  1 1  980           20 4El         551 4QQ Q00                  -
80*65   PNP       0.12             3130260                375 63m 20
._____                                       - _ 20.160.031.20  10080.015 60
9   _ _  OPW         13_          _____.                    1.040,000.00            _
_    CN         ~~             ~~~~~8 1n^N800 000.00- 
________                            T~I~         -    -      ~      1.840 000.00  920.000.00
= _________________ _                          -    -               67,378031.20  3
P&'/~~2C 4. OSI 4&9 Jw 4LS'aSHS' /fl202J                                                 ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
_______ ________BABIANEHA
FARM/    _          SIZES      _           RATES          _         TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT         #VALUEI
ACREAGE KIND        L     M    S    SDLG   L      M      S     SDLG  0       P          P      #VALUE!
10_         OPW           12                 100000                     1,200,000.00                      -
MA             2                  70000                     140,000.00
. CN            1                  100000                    100,000.00
________ __________  _____        -   __________ 1,440,000.00      720,000.00
________  __________                   -     -   __________ ~~~ 1440,000.00  720,000.00
lx_                                                                                     .
.__ _ _   ._ _._ _.._ _.
_L_                       



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
______                      ~~~~AGYEMPABOA                   ____         ____
FARMI                SIZES                  RATES                 -    TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT           #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L    M     S    SDLG   L       M      S     SDLG          P           P      #VALUE!
1          OPW            18                   80000                      1,440,000.00
100*50   PNP          0.12                  3130260                    375.631.20
210*50   CA                0.24       _            1645061              394,814.64
I___                                     -    2,210,445.84     1,105.222.92
2          OPW             7   10              80000 64000                1,200,000.00
142*50   cassava           0.16                    1645061             263.209.76
I_-                       1.463,209.76     731.60488
3 230*50   Cocoa         156                   23000                      3,588,000.00                      604_88
= ______ OPW           21    41   14         80000 64000 48000         4,976,000.00
100*50   PNP          0.11                  31W30260        _          344.328.60
= _______ OPA           32                  125000                 -    4,000,000.00
____           _____    _          ______12908328.60             #REF!
4 95*50    G. Egq-S      0.1                  2396415                     239,641.50  1208326            REF
OPW            8    12              80000 64000                1,408,000.00                  --
= ______ OPA             5                  125000       _         -     2000.00    6160000.00 ____________
I___                                  __                                       -    2,272,641.50    -1,136,320.75
5  __ _ _ _OPW            37   -    -   _  _    80000  __ _ _2,960,000.00            _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
_______OPA                 32 _________100000             -     -    3,200,000.00
________                ______                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 6,160,000.00  3.080,000.00
6          OR              2                   70000          -           140.000.00 _
= _______ MA             1                   70000        -              70,000.00
OPW           13          6         80000        428Q000       1,328,000.00
AVP             1                   70000                 -    70,000.00
80*50    PNP          0.09           _      3130260    _    _           281.723.40
______ OPA           27   _                     _____4__875__00                  1 889 723.40      #lREF!
7 _______ OPA             27   15      _____ 125000 100000                4,875000.00
-   4,875,000.00    2.437.500.00
8 121 *50  PNP          0.13                  3130260                     406.933.80
PL            27                     8000          -          216.000.00
PaWDW          3                    6000                 -     18.000.00
OPA                 22   14               100000 75000        3250000.00
3,890,933.80    1 945 466.90
3333E33   I ______ _ I__ I_                             _ I_ I_I_I_I_I_II             #REF!          #REF!       I
I'k{rs011 a  W . 48S3Y KM? S l'l1Z/20022                                                                          ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
-   -  PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
______ ________AGYEMPABOA                                   ____
FARM/I              ISIZES                RATES                     TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT         #ALUE!
ACREAGE KIND        L    M     S    SDLG   L      M      S     SDLG         P           P      #VALUE!
9 113*50   Ca               0.13                   1645061        -    213.857.93                         --
________ Pawoaw              3                     4 I  |  800        14,4 0.00
OPW           4 _________80000                    -     -   320,000.00________
_____                        ~~~~~~~~~~- 548,257.93  274.,128.97
10          PL           32                    8000          -          256,000.00 _
Pawr)aw       4                    6000          -   -       24,0 0.00 00
OPW           4   -    -   __     80000                     320,000.00 _____________
82* 50   Cocoa                   54   1                 138_00      |745,200.00   1_    _
20*20    Pepper      0.01                 2615655          -     -    26,156.55 _
_ __-  11371,356.55  685 678.28
11          OPA                     10 I_   1_ 875000              -    750,000.0 ) I_|___
PL            37  -    -   __      8000 __   _-       -     296,000.00_____________
110*50   CassaVa          0.13                   1645061  -          213,857.93
-_-         __________ 1 259 857.93      629,928.97
-ht   I   I  I  I  I  I      I      I     I     I          1 3,179,472.41   1,589,736.21
P=lS-YL 4. ceit I89     I    I     I                                                                         ELIKEM
5   I   I  I   I    1-+          I      I     I     I           I           I           +~~~~4111



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
- PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
ATEKYEM
FARM/                SIZES                   RATES                     TOTALVALUE AMOUNT           #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L     M    S     SDLG   L      M                           P           PVALUE!
1.          OPA            9   21    41       125000 100000 750          6,300,000.00 :
Pi                  19     1                6400              121,600.00
=_ I  I  I  I   I I_-           6,421,600.00    3 210.800.00
2 _         OPA           16     2  -         125000 100000    -     -    2,200,000.00
_   150*50    Cassava           0.06                    1645061  -           98,703.66
I_______ PL                   14                     6400                89,600.00
________                                                                      -    2,388,303.66     1.194,151.83
3 I         OPA           39                  125000 _                    4,875,000.00  .  ._.
_______ IManao           4                   70000                     280,000.00
________                                                                      -    5,155,000.00    2,577,500.00
4  _____     OPA         1 12  _ _ l          |125000  ____2              1,500,000.00  _        l__
________  _____          ______                            ~~   ~~~~~~~~ ~~~- 1,500,000.00  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
5 100*84    Cocoa        114                   23000                      2,622,000.00
OPW             1                   80000                      80.000.00
________               -                                                      -    2,702,000.00     1,346,000.00
6 225*100   Cocoa        312                   23000                      7,176,000.00 ._._.__
________ __________ ____ ____         _____ _____ l7,176,000.00                                     3,588,000.00
________                                -     -               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25,342,903.66  12.671,451.83
P N- 4. W1?i489 1  41S1"lYS-S'f9O1'iJfl'kY2oo2)                                                                ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISION LINE
CROP COMPENSATION
ABESEWA
FARMI                SIZES                  RATES                    l TOTAL VALUE AMOUNT         #VALUE!
ACREAGE KIND         L    M     S    SDLG   L      M      S     SDLG .         P          P     'VALUE!
1 ________OPA            54    30 _125000 100000                        9,750,000.00
l_______ Cocoa          50_                  23000                     1,150,000.00
-     ~      yp~ 3Avp    3                   70000                    .210,000.00
OR             2 _                 70000        _____        140.000.00
MA             1                   70000                      70,000.00 I
Guava          1                   40000 __________           40,000.00 ______________
-  Kola        1                   70000                      70,000.00                 .
-    100*83   PNP         0.19            _     3130260                    594,749.40
____-  12,024,749.40  6,012,374.70
2 660*100   Cassava           1.52                   1645061             2,500,492.72 _
= _______ OPW           13   15              80000 64000              2,000,000.00
_____  ______ __  -  4,500,492.72   2,250,246.36
3 123*100   Cocoa        168_                  23000                     3,864,000.00
OPW            6                   80000                     480,000.00             ,
l_____  _____              -   4,344,000.00
4 l50*50    Cassava           0.06                   1645061              98,703.66
_______ OPW              5                   80000                    400,000.00
AVP            1 l70000 _                       r             70.000.00
___  ____  ____  _____                    ~~   ~~- 568,703.66
5           OPW           65   21              80000 64000               6,544,000.00
MA             1                   70000                      70,000.00
__  _-  6,614,000.00  3,307,000.00
6           OPW            5                   80000                    400.000.00              _
400,000.00       200,000.00
_____ _____                   ______ ______ _____            28,451,945.78  14,225,972.89
PAs. 4. (~l 4s-9 tA2SJOV s A (202)                                                                             ELIKEM



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
TAKYIKROM                            _-
FARM/          .         SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L       M        S     SDLG                            P
1            Cocoa      52 =1    =            23000    18600           _          1,196,000.00
OPW        241                   80000                               1,920,000.00
OR          2                    70000_                                140,000.00
__________ MA          3                    70000                                 210,000.00
AVP         5  _                 70000                                 350,000.00
= ________ CN          3                   100000                                 300,000.00
__________ OPA        42                   125000                               5,250,000.00
_       9,366,000.00
2 227*50     CA            0.26                      1645061                        427,715.86
227*50     OPA                   19_                         75000               1,425,000.00
OPW        34                    80000                               2,720,000.00
MA          1                    70000                                  70,000.00
AVP         1                    70000                                  70,000.00
CN          1                   100000                                 100,000.00
PL              27                         6400                        172,800.00
_____  -   4,985,515.86
3 56*50      CA            0.06                      1645061                         98,703.66
56*50      OPA                    5                          75000                375,000.00_
OPW         3                    80000                                 240,000.00
-           713,703.66
4            OPA        12    7              125000   100000                      2,200,000.00
Pawpaw      4                     6000                                  24,000.00_
._____                       -          2,224,000.00
5 234*50     CA            0.26                      1645061                        427,715.86
PL              18                         6400                        115,200.00
120*50     CY             0.13                     1556756                        202,378.28
______  --____- -745,294.14
6 124*50     CA            0.14                      1645061                        230,308.54
PL              64                         6400                        409,600.00                -
124*50     CY             0.14                     1556756                        217,945.84
_______    857,854.38
I.  -                      =    =_______  =_____  -   - -   -                    ______________         18,892,368.04



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                   CROP VALUATION
TAKYIKROM
FARM/                      SIZES                        RATES                TOTAL VALUE             AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND     L    M     S   SDLG      L        M        S     SDLG                              P
7 224*50      CA             0.25                        1645061 _                       411,265.25
PL               12                           6400                          76,800.00
224*50      OPA           =        18                            75000                1,350,000.00
-       ~~1,838,065.25
l  8          OPA         27   18               125000    100000                       5,175,000.00
l __ = _________ MA          1  =_=               _ 70000                                   70,000.00        5,245,000.00
__                                                                      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 5,245,000.00
9 33*50       Yam            0.03                        1063343                          31,900.29
67*50       Ca              0.07                       1645061                         115,154.27          147_054.56
1  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    ____-147,054.56
10 37*50       Yam            0.04                       1063343                           42,533.72
=   37*50       Ca             0.04                       1645061                           65,802.44
-            108,336.16
11 33*50       Ca             0.03                       1645061                           49,351.83
-   33*50       Yam            0.03                       2036243                           61,087.29
110,439.12
12             OPA               7                         100000                         700,000.00
OPW          6                     80000                                   480,000.00
-           1,180,000.00
13             OPA               8                         100000                         800,000.00
_ _________                  =____ =_____                                                     -           800,000.00
14             OPW         19                     80000                                 1,520,000.00
159*100     CA             0.36                        1645061                         592,221.96
-   38*100      Cocoa                  52                            13800                 717,600.00
_  =  =  _  2,829,821.96
15             OPA         16                    125000                                 2,000,000.00
= _________ MA           2                     70000                                   140,000.00
AVP          1                     70000_                                   70,000.00
50*50       PNP       0.05                   3130260                                   156,513.00
2,366,513.00
!___ t____ I_I_I_1-_l_l_l_l_l14,625,230.05



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
'SHANTI REGION                                           CROP VALUATION
______  __________________      TAKYIKROM
FARMI                   SIZES                     RATES               TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M    S   SDLG     L       M       S     SDLG        _P
16 100* 100  CA            0.23                    1645061                       378,364.03
OPW        8                   80000                                640,000.00
Pawpaw     4 ___                6000                                 24,000.00
-          1,042,364.03
17           OPA       11                   125000 ___    __                    1,375,000.00
_  ____  ..  . 1,375,000.00
18           OPW       24                    80000               _              1,920,000.00
______  ______               -         1,920,000.00
19           OPA       33                   125000                              4,125,000.00
MA         2                    70000                               140,000.00
PL         7                     8000                                56,000.00
-         4,321,000.00
20           OPA       31                   125000                              3,875,000.00
.  .       3,875,000.00
21 274*100   CA            0.62                    1645061                      1,019,937.82
_          1,019,937.82
22           OPW       76                    80000                              6,080,000.00
AVP        1                    70000                                70,000.00
(72*80)+63 COCOA    142                   23000                              3,266,000.00
OR                    1                        42000                 42,000.00
437*100    PNP     1.01                 3130260                              3,161,562.60
MA         1                    70000                                70,000.00
CN         1                   100000                               100,000.00
-         12,789,562.60
23           OPA       36                   125000                              4,500,000.00
4,500,000.00
24 100*80    CA            0.18                    1645061                       296,110.98
=______ =_____ =_____                -           296,110.98
25 60*100    COCOA          78 _                     18400                      1,435,200.00
=______ _______ _______ ______________              :   1,435,200.00
32,574,175.43



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
r SHANTI REGION                                            CROP VALUATION
-_______________            MANUKROM
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M    S   SDLG     L       M        S    SDLG        _    P                P
1           OPA        56   60              125000  100000                     13,000,000.00
50*80      PNP      0.09                 3130260                                281,723.40
PL        86                     8000                                688,000.00
Pawpaw     4                     6000                                 24,000.00
216*80     Ca            0.39                     1645061                       641,573.79        _
_         14,635,297.19
2 200*100    Cocoa    275                    23000                              6,325,000.00
-          6,325,000.00
3 1 00*30    PNP      0.06                 3130260                                187,815.60        ,
OPW        17                   80000                               1,360,000.00
OR          5                   70000                                350,000.00
Kola        3                   70000                                210,000.00
______  -  2,107,815.60
4 116*70     Ca            0.18                     1645061                       296,110.98
__________ OPA        3         30        125000           75000              2,625,000.00
_ _   P1    8                    8000                _                64,000.00
264*100    Cocoa     363                   23000                               8,349,000.00
_ _________ AVP       2                    70000                                140,000.00
=OR         6                   70000 _______420,000.00
MA          1                   70000 _                               70,000.00
-         11,964,110.98
5 394*100    Cocoa    542                    23000                             12,466,000.00
MA          2                   70000                                140,000.00
_  _  .   12,606,000.00
6 228&100/58-100 Cocoa  314  79              23000    18400                     8,675,600.00
AVP         1                   70000                                 70,000.00
BA         10                    8000                 .   .           80,000.00
OR          2                   70000     _                          140,000.00
_______                         8,965,600.00
=__== =__                                      56,603,823.77
...~~~~~~~~ ,. .._.



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - 03UASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
iHANTI REGION CROP VAL UATIOlN
MANUKROM
FARM/          _        SIZES  -_      _          RATES             l TOTAL VALUE         AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M    S     SDLG   L       M       S     SDLG                   P   ___
7 464*100   Cocoa     639  -                23000      _                     14,697,000.00
_60*50     CY       0.06                1940426                               116,425.56   _
OR         4      -            70000 .                             280,000.00
AVP        1                   70000                                70,000.00
______                     -         15,163,425.56
8 122*8     CA            0.02  -                 1645061                        32,901.22
OPA            32                      100000                     3,200,000.00
3,232,901.22
____     _ 4                                 _  l       l       l      l18,396,326.78



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
AMPUNYASE JUNCTION
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG   _          P               P
1 167*100    Cocoa     230  ____              23000                                5,290,000.00
_  _  _  .   5,290,000.00
2 300*100    Cocoa     413                    23000                                 9,499,000.00
OR          2       -            70000                     _            140,000.00
I =  =  =_-                                                                 9,639,000.00
3 97*100     Cocoa     133  _                 23000                                3,059,000.00
Kola        1  -                 70000                 _                 70,000.00_
-              OPA        5    19   19         125000   100000            =          2,525,000.00
=143*100    CA            0.32                      1645061                         526,419.52
-          6,180,419.52
4 344*1Q00   CA            0.25                      1645061        _                411,265.25
344*100    OPA             57                        100000                       5,700,000.00  _
303*100    CO        417                     23000                                9,591,000.00
Kola        2                    70000                                  140,000.00
OR          3                    70000 _                                210,000.00
-                       =     =    =_-                                                                 16,052,265.25
5 46*70      Cocoa      44                    23000                                 1,012,000.00   _
198*1 00   CA             0.45                      1645061                        740,277.45
Guava       2                    40000                                   80,000.00
188*100    CA             0.43                     1645061        _                707,376.23
100*61     PNP      0.14                  3130260                   _              438,236.40
______L___ _______        ________ ________ _______                         _______________          2,977,890.08
40,139,574.85
-______ ___=__



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                           CROP VALUATION
SIKANEASEM
FARM/                  SIZES                     RATES             TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M    S  SDLG     L       M       S    SDLG           P              P
OPA       22        21        125000          75000             4,325,000.00
PL        12                    8000                              96,000.00
Pawpaw     1                    6000                               6,000.00 _
Cocoa     23                   23000                             529,000.00
. ________ =OPW      6                   80000                              480,000.00
_______<<<A1                                                                     5,436,000.00
5,436,000.00



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
kSHANTI REGION                                                 CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE NO. 2
FARM/                     SIZES                        RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L   M    SS     DLG      L M  S                  SDLG L            p               P
1 347-70     Cassava        0.55                       1645061                         904,783.55
OPA              53                        100000                       5,300,000.00
Pawpaw      5                       6000                                   30,000.00
i ________ Kola         1                     70000                                   70,000.00
-          6,304,783.55
2            OPA         33   16               125000   100000                        5,725,000.00
PL         26                       8000                                  208,000.00
BA         12                       8000                                   96,000.00
-   122*100    Pineapple  0.28                  3130260                                  876,472.80
__  __ ,_____O                                                                                   -        6,905,472.80
3            OPA         33    6   -125000              100000                        5,725,000.00
PL         26                       8000_                                 208,000.00
l____________ BA          12                       8000                 _                 96,000.00
122*100    Pineapple  0.28                  3130260                                  876,472.80
-      ~~6,905,472.8-0
4 147*100    CA              0.33                      1645061                         542,870.13
OPA              25                        100000                       2,500,000.00
-  100*50      PNP      0.11                   3130260                  _                344,328.60
-          3,387,198.73
5            OPA         32                    125000                                 4,000,000.00
- =vr' AVP                           - = =A       70000VP_                                70,000.00       4,070,000.00
-          4,070,000.00
6 207*100    Cocoa      285                     23000                                 6,555,000.00
AVP          2                     70000                                  140,000.00
OPW        19                      80000                                 1,520,000.00
OR           2                     70000                                  140,000.00
Cocoa      63                      23000                 _               1,449,000.00
_  . -     9,804,000.00
7            Cocoa       57                     23000                                 1,311,000.00        .
I _OR        1                     70000                                   70,000.00
= _________ MA          1                     70000                _                  70,000.00
AVP          1                     70000                                   70,000.00
OPW               5                         64000                         320,000.00
1,841,000.00
___   ____L     -     -     -   __ _____________   ______________ _______________         37,376,927.88



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                           CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE NO. 2
FARM/                  SIZES                     RATES              TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L   M     S    SDLG   L       M       S     SDLG           P               P
8_          OPA       18   22             125000   100000                    4,450,000.00
PL        12                    8000                               96,000.00
Pawpaw     4                    6000                                24,000.00
80*80      PNP     0.14                 3130260                              438,236.40
5,008,236.40



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
i _______   ______  _________________              ADAM SO
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
!_ = ACREAGE     KIND     L  M      S     SDLG    L        M       S      SDLG   0         P                P
_     _1      OPA       51  =                 125000                                6,375,000.00
i _________ PL         16 __            __    8000           _   _   _____          128,000.00
- =  _  =  =  6,503,000.00
|  2         OPA                   20                           75000               1,500,000.00
PL         16   14    24           8000     6400    4800                332,800.00
=_____           _______________         1,832,800.00
3            OPA        48   _                125000                                6,000,000.00
=___                            _______ ______                                   6,000,000.00
4            OPA              27   -                   100000 _                     2,700,000.00
____=___=______         2,700,000.00
5            OPW        18     9   11          80000    64000   48000               2,544,000.00
PL         28    14   12           8000     6400    4800                371,200.00
=Pawpaw                            6000                                  30,000.00
253*100    CA             0.58                       145061                          84,135.38
= _________          =___  =_____ =______________                                                    3,029,335.38
6            Pawpaw      6                      6000                                   36,000.00
! _________ OPW        2                     80000                                  160,000.00
229*100    Cocoa      316                    23000                                7,268,000.00
7,464,000.00
7            OPA         16                   125000                                2,000,000.00
AVP         1                     70000                                  70,000.00
100*100    PNP       0.23                  3130260                                  719,959.80
__________                = -_____                           ______          _______________         2,789,959.80
8 513*100    Cocoa     706                     23000                     =         16,238,000.00
-  77=   _  _16,238,000.00
9            OPA        58                    125000                                7,250,000.00
=_____         =____           =______  _______                                          7,250,000.00
10 157*100    Cocoa           216                        18400                       3,974,400.00
157*100    PNP            0.36                      2947560                       1,061,121.60
= ________  =_____         =______ =______                                                           5,035,521.60
58,842,616.78



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
%SHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
ADAMSO
FARM/                   SIZES                       RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L     M    S   SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG             P      0        P
11 253*100   Cocoa     348                    23000                       _       8,004,000.00
45*50      Cocoa     30                     23000                       _        690,000.00
PL        86   36                 8000    6400                        918,400.00
-          9,612,400.00
12           OPA        76                   125000                       _       9,500,000.00
20207*100  PNP      0.47                 3130260                                1,471,222.20
_  _      10,971,222.20
13           OPA        67   56              125000   100000                      13,975,000.00
._ _______13,975,000.00
1 4          OPW        76   42               80000    64000                       8,768,000.00
OPA       44    32           I 125000    100000                      8,700,000.00
156*100    CA            0.35            _         1645061                       575,771.35
156*100    PNP      0.35  =    -         3130260                  ...           1,095,591.00
PL         18   21  =             8000     6400    _                   278,400.00
____       _____ =______           ______    -                 -         19,417,762.35
15 229*100   Cocoa     316           __= _    23000                                7,268,000.00
7,268,000.00
______ l__l___________                 61,244,384.55



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
NSHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
FENASO NKWANTA                      ___
FARMI                    SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG      L       M        S     SDLG    C         P               P
1 200*100    PNP      0.45                 3130260                      _          1,408,617.00
426*100    Cocoa     586                    23000                  _            13,478,000.00
AVP         7    8    7          70000    56000   42000               1,232,000.00
___            Kola       4                     70000                                 280,000.00
,-             Pawpaw     3                      6000                                  18,000.00
_____    _ OPW         3                    80000                           -     240,000.00
I - _________ opw            ____                                                            -         16,656,617.00
2 149*100    PNP      0.34 =_=_3130260                                             1,064,288.40
; _________ Cocoa     10                    23000                   _             230,000.00
-_________ BA          4                     8000                 _                32,000.00
-   __________ OPW         7                    80000  -_   _                         560,000.00
_~~~~ 1'886,288.40
3            Cocoa     46                     23000                                1,058,000.00
OPW        21                    80000                 _              1,680,000.00
BA         12                     8000                                  96,000.00
-      ~~2,834,000.00
4 298*90     Cocoa     377                    23000      _8,671,000.00
i-  215*80     PNP      0.39 _3130260                                                1,220,801.40
AVP         2                    70000                                  140,000.00
Kola        1                    70000                                  70,000.00
__________  10,101,801.40
5 137*60     Cocoa     113                    23000                                2,599,000.00
BA         17                     8000                                 136,000.00
OPW        20                    80000                                1,600,000.00
50*30      Cocoa      20                    23000                                 460,000.00
-          4,795,000.00
6            Cocoa      62                    23000                                1,426,000.00
OPW         6                    80000                _       _        480,000.00
-          1,906,000.00
7         _ Cocoa       43   11               23000    18400              _        1,191,400.00 
= ________           =______ =_____ =_____                                  _______________         1,191,400.00
I_____              I______            I______          I_I_I_I_1''_1_I_39,371,106.80



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
,SHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
FENASO NKWANTA
FARM/                     SIZES                        RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    M     S     SDLG    L        M       S      SDLG             P               P
8 257*100    Cocoa      353  _                  23000                                 8,119,000.00
__________ Pawpaw       3                      6000                                   18,000.00
OPW        16   =                  80000                                1,280,000.00
BA          6      _                8000                                   48,000.00
__________  _______  ________  ________                                      9,465,000.00
9 228*100    Cocoa      314  __          =      23000     _      __   _               7,222,000.00
__                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,222,000.00
10 110*100    Cocoa      151 ____23000                    ___                          3,473,000.00
__                             =3,473,000.00
11 48*100     Cocoa       66                     23000                                 1,518,000.00
76*100      Cocoa          102                          18400                       1,876,800.00
180*100    Cocoa      246                     23000                                 5,658,000.00
PL         18 _                     8000                 _                144,000.00
Pawpaw      6                       6000                                   36,000.00
76*50       CA             0.08                      1645061                         131,604.88
61 *50      CY       0.07                   1940426                                  135,829.82
PL               67    16                    6400    4800                 505,600.00
_  =      10,005,834.70
12            Pi          27   57                 8000     6400                         580,800.00
73*50       CA/CY          0.08                       1645061                        131,604.88
= ________ BA          12                      8000                                   96,000.00
496*100     Cocoa     683    _                23000 _                              15,709,000.00
=_                                                                  =    _16,517,404.88
13 515*70     Cocoa      496                     23000                                11,408,000.00
= _________ OPW        13                     80000                                 1,040,000.00
= __________ BA        12                      8000                                   96,000.00
__________ _______                                                          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,544,000.00
14 110*70     Cocoa      106                     23000                                 2,438,000.00     12,544,000.00
______            _2,438,000.00
__________   .______                        _______  _______                                         61,665,239.58



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
.SHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
ABOAGYEKROM
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S     SDLG   L        M        S     SDLG    0         P               P
1 296*50     Cocoa     203  -    -             23000                                4,669,000.00
l  345*100    Cocoa     475                     23000                               10,925,000.00
I _________  _______                      ________                           _________ .______      15,594,000.00
2 (176*50)+34 Cocoa    168                     23000                                3,864,000.00
PL         13                      8000                                 104,000.00
_____                                                                       ________________        3,968,000.00
3 214*100    CA/CY    0.49                   1645061                                 806,079.89
_ 214*75      PL              437                         6400         _             2,796,800.00
Pawpaw     15                      6000                                  90,000.00
- 214*30      Cocoa                 88                           13800               1,214,400.00
OPW         8                     80000    -_                           640,000.00
______                       -          5,547,279.89
4 146*63     PL        252                      8000                                2,016,000.00
146*63     CY             0.21                      1555756                        326,708.76
146*63     Cocoa                126                           13800               1,738,800.00
Pawpaw     11                      6000                                  66,000.00
OPW         4                     80000                                 320,000.00
i             OR                     1                           42000                  42,000.00
-          4,509,508.76
5 166*100    Cocoa          228                         18400                       4,195,200.00
__________ PL         29    57                8000     6400                         596,800.00
__________ Pawpaw      8   =    =             6000                                  48,000.00
97*80      Ca             0.17                      1645061                         279,660.37
-          5,119,660.37
6 196*100    Cocoa     264                     23000                                6,072,000.00
AVP         1                     70000                                  70,000.00
OPW         7                     80000                                 560,000.00
-          6,702,000.00
7            OPA        72   36               125000   100000                      12,600,000.00
_________  _______  ______  _______  12,600,000.00
__________                     = =_____  _____               _______          ________-______       54,040,449.02



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
ABOAGYEKROM
FARM/   |         |      SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S  SDLG      L       M        S     SDLG            P               P
8 250*100    Cocoa     344     _              23000                               7,912,000.00
OPW         6                    80000                                 480,000.00
PL         19                     8000                                 152,000.00
_____  _______                  _______  _______________       8,544,000.00
9            OPA             38                       100000                      3,800,000.00     _
PL              45   43                    6400   4800                 494,400.00
-          4,294,400.00
10 400*100    Cocoa     550                    23000                              12,650,000.00
OPA        26                   125000                               3,250,000.00
= _________ BA         4                     8000                                  32,000.00
-         15,932,000.00
11 127*100    CA      _     0.29                      1645061                        477,067.69
OPW         8                    80000                                 640,000.00
__________ PL              32   -                     6400                        204,800.00
1,321,867.69
12 210-10012r100 Cocoa  289 ____174           23000 _______   13800               9,048,200.00
OPW         7                    80000                                 560,000.00
_______  ______                         -9,608,200.00
13            PL              52                         6400                        332,800.00
=______                           _______________          332,800.00
14            OPA        42                   125000                               5,250,000.00
143*60     Beans    0.32                  2260912                                 723,491.84
_______ _______                                           5,973,491.84
15            OPA        43   37              125000   100000                      9,075,000.00
400* 1 00  PL       1111                     8000                                8,888,000.00
Pawpaw     58                     6000                                 348,000.00
217*100    CA             0.49                     1645061                        806,079.89
19,117,079.89
=_____ =___==_                         65,123,839.42



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
kSHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
PWD CAMP
FARM/                    SIZES        |             RATES                TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S    SDLG    L        M       S     SDLG            P               P
1            OPA        84                   125000                     _        10,500,000.00
BA         47                     8000                                376,000.00
,-____               -         10,876,000.00
2 238*100    Cocoa     328                    23000                               7,544,000.00
i-         7,544,000.00
1 3 60*38       CA            0.05                      1645061                        82,253.05
75*80      Cocoa      83                    23000                                1,909,000.00
1,991,253.05
4            OPA         8         16        125000            75000              2,200,000.00
l..... __________ PL       19                     8000                                152,000.00
_____  ______  _2,352,000.00
- l  l  l  l  l  1 5 5          t                      1      22,763,253.05



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
ADINKRA
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M     S  SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG             P               P
1 178*75    Cocoa               184                          13800               2,539,200.00
OPW        4                    80000                                 320,000.00
Pawpaw     2                     6000                                  12,000.00
=_____ = = =____________                2,871,200.00
2 181*75     Cocoa              189                          13800               2,608,200.00
OPW        7                    80000                      _          560,000.00
__________ PL        9                     8000                                  72,000.00
_________  ______  ____  _______                        3,240,200.00
3 212*90    Cocoa     263        34          23000           13800               6,518,200.00
6,518,200.00
4 96*70     Cocoa                93                          13800               1,283,400.00
= _=_=_=_.                                                                                        1,283,000.00
5_          OPA        52                   125000                               6,500,000.00
6,500,000.00
6           OPA        20        28         125000           75000    _          4,600,000.00
_ 120*70      PNP      0.19                 3130260                                 594,749.40
5,194,749.40
7           OPA         7   11-             125000  100000                       1,975,000.00
PL              12                        6400                         76,800.00
______                  _____  _______  _______  ______        _______________         2,051,800.00
8 70*70/50*50 CA           0.11 0.05               1645061 1425821                252,247.76
OPA             18   13                 100000   75000              2,775,000.00
_______                       ________         _______                                 3,027,247.76
9            OPA            28  -                           100000               2,800,000.00
______              _2,800,000.00
10           OPA        23   47   13         125000  100000   75000               8,550,000.00
50*50      PNP      0.05                 3130260                                 156,513.00
=_____    =    =    =      __          =______                                         8,706,513.00
11 _________ OPA             16    6                 100000   75000               2,050,000.00
= ____   _          =_ =       =                                            _44,242,050,000.00
_________                _______                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44,242,910.16



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
: ________  ______  __________________          A DINKRA
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L     M    S  SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG            P               p
12            OPA       30   22              125000  100000                      5,950,000.00
100*50     PNP      0.11                 3130260                                344,328.60
._______ _  _6,294,328.60
13            OPA       41             -     125000  _                           5,125,000.00
I              PL        46                    8000                                368,000.00
-237*100   CA            0.54                     1645061                       888,332.94
I_                                               _                                                6,381,332.94
141          OPA             44                      100000 _4,400,000.00
=  =  =  =     =                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,400,000.00
15 200*100    OPA       33                   125000                              4,125,000.00
200*100    PNP      0.45                 3130260                               1,408,617.00
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5,533,617.00
116            OPA       19   21=             125000  100000                      4,475,000.00
112*100    PNP      0.25                 3130260                                782,565.00
.          _                    .         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,257,565.00
17 128-60/146^50 OPA         11   10                 100000   75000              1,850,000.00
1128-60/146*50 PNP        0.17 0.16               2947560 2691780               931,770.00
211*100    CA            0.48                     1645061                       789,629.28 _
= ________                =__=__                                         _______________         3,571,399.28
=______ = =___________ = =31,438,242.82



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES               TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
_   ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG            P               P
1 _          OPA        32   17   13         125000   100000   75000               6,675,000.00
BA         27      .              8000                                 216,000.00
_ ________  ______                                          ______                       -          6,891,000.00
2            OPA        81                   12500                                10,125,000.00
91*100     CA              0.2                       100000                         20,000.00
10,145,000.00
3 183*100    Cocoa               252    48                 _   13800     9200      3,919,200.00
PL              22                          6400                        140,800.00
OPW              6                         64000                        384,000.00
MA                    16                          42000                 672,000.00
-          5,116,000.00
4 173*100    Cocoa               238                   _       13800               3,284,400.00
OPA                   10  =                       75000                 750,000.00
AVP         2                     70000                                 140,000.00
BA          8                      8000                       _          64,000.00
-          4,238,400.00
5 125*100    Cocoa     172 =_=_23000                       ___                     3,956,000.00
AVP         4                     70000                                 280,000.00
_______  ______  _ _____  -  4,236,000.00
6 200*100    Cocoa     275                    23000                                6,325,000.00
=   _ _   =_=_=_=_._                                                         -          6,325,000.00
7 94*100     Cocoa     129                    23000                                2,967,000.00
__________ _______                                  _______  _______             -          2,967,000.00
8 135*100    Cocoa                186                          13800    =          2,566,800.00
PL         12                      8000                                  96,000.00
135*100    PNP       0.3                  3130260                                  939,078.00
,_____        3,601,878.00
_ ______                      ________________      43,520,278.00



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
%SHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                     SIZES                       RATES               TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    M     S   SDLG     L        M       S      SDLG   0         P                P
9 77*100     CA             0.17                      1645061        _     __         279,660.37
77*100      OPA                   11                          75000                 825,000.00
l _ 1,104,660.37
10            PL           5                     8000                        A         40,000.00
65*100      OPA             11                        100000                       1,100,000.00
= 65*100       CA             0.14                      1645061            =           230,308.54 _
OPW         1                     80000                                  80,000.00
_____________                                                            _ ______  _______________       1,450,308.54
11 118*100    CA             0.271                     1645061                         444,166.47
118*100    OPA                    17                          75000               1,275,000.00
PL                6                         6400                         38,400.00
.i ._                                                                         _  __ __                  _
_ _________                                                                  _______________         1,757,566.47
12            OPA         40                   125000                                5,000,000.00
-  - -  -  ______ _______  5,000,000.00
13            OPA         26   46              125000   100000                       7,850,000.00
= _________ AVP         1                    70000                      =            70,000.00
_ _______  _______________    7,920,000.00
14            OPA         59   11    15        125000   100000   75000               9,600,000.00
50*50       Cocoa                 34                           13800                469,200.00
PL                6                         6400                         38,400.00
AVP               1                        56000                         56,000.00
OR                   _8                            42000                336,000.00
__________   _______  =_____ =_________=____                                                        10,499,600.00
15 300*100    Cocoa                413               _           13800               5,699,400.00
__________ OPW          8                    80000                                  640,000.00
300*100     OPA                   50                           75000    _          3,750,000.00
AVP               3                        56000                        168,000.00
_______ =______ =___=__________        10,257,400.00
_______ =_____=_____=___               37,989,535.38
l~ ~ ~~~ ~~~    ~~~~~              .-               - I  I.~m- IF I,ir I~ I  I   H         ,



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                   SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG             P               P
16 50'80     CA             0.09                     1645061        _                148,055.49
PL              16                         6400              _         102,400.00
250,455.49
17            PL              30                        6400                         192,000.00
50*81      CA            0.09                      1645061                        148,055.49
=  =  _      340,055.49
18            OPA       19                    125000                               2,375,000.00
________ _______                  ________________        2,375,000.00
19            OPW       43    21               80000   64000                       4,784,000.00
_________  OPA             26   11   _   __         100000  75000                3,425,000.00      8,209,000.00
______                       ~~~~~~~8,209,000.00
20            OPA        23         8         125000           75000                3,475,000.00
3,475,000.00
21 10o7100/ 403-100 OPA  18  -     67         125000           75000                7,275,000.00
________ XBA          13   X                 8000 ___ __            _  __         104,000.00
Pawpaw      3                     6000                                  18,000.00
.______                           _______________         7,397,000.00
22 245*100    OPA             49                       100000                       4,900,000.00
4,900,000.00
23 210*100    CA            0.48                      1645061                        789,629.28
789,629.28
24 131 *60    PL        218                     8000          __   _                1,744,000.00
OPW         7                    80000                                 560,000.00
80*50      OPA              6                       100000                        600,000.00
Pawpaw      3                     6000                                  18,000.00 _
.______                           ________________        2,922,000.00
=_____    =______ =_____________ =30,658,140.26



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG            PP
25 125*100    CA            0.28  -                  1645061 __    _               460,617.08
_______=_______ PL        26                    8000                                 208,000.00
_____=-________          668,617.08
26 100*100    PNP           0.23                     2947560                       677,938.80
=   Pawpaw  5  =    =            6000                                  30,000.00
OPW         2                    80000                                160,000.00
_________ PL           3     .8000                                                24,000.00
=  = =  =   891,938.80
27            OPA         3        40        125000            75000              3,375,000.00
186*100    PNP           0.42                     2947560                      1,237,975.20
_          4,612,975.20
28            OPA        7                   125000                                875,000.00  ____
MA          1                    70000                                 70,000.00
__________ AVP         1                   70000                     _            70,000.00
__________ Cocoa       8                   23000                 _               184,000.00
I___=____ 0PL         12                    8000 _                                96,000.00
- =  ___________________  =  =________ =                                                              1,295,000.00
29            CN          4                  100000                                400,000.00
= _________ MA         1                   70000                                  70,000.00
OPW         9                    80000                                720,000.00
Cocoa       7                    23000                                161,000.00
__________  OR         4                    70000                                280,000.00
BA          6                     8000                                 48,000.00
______ =______ =_____ =___=_                                                           1,679,000.00
1 30          CN          1                  100000                                 100,000.00
l_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  9,2 4 7,5310 0 ,0 0 0 .0 0
_                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,247,531,08



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARMI                    SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
_   ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG             P               P
31            OPA              6    2                  100000   75000                750,000.00
Apple       2                    40000                                  80,000.00
CN               2                        80000                         160,000.00
_  .   .  ,   990,000.00
32            OPA       48                    125000                                6,000,000.00
CN               2                        80000 _                       160,000.00
-          6,160,000.00
33 106* 100+27 OPA     -      42  -                    100000                       4,200,000.00
_-_        4,200,000.00
34 106*100+27 OPA             45 _                     100000                       4,500,000.00
_  =  =  =  4,500,000.00
35 100*100L   OPA             18   17                  100000   75000               3,075,000.00
100*100    Ca            0.23                      1645061                        378,364.03
_  .       3,453,364.03
36 96*100     OPA             18   17                  100000   75000               3,075,000.00
100*100    Ca            0.23                      1645061    _                   378,364.03
_  =  = =  _  .   3,453,364.03
37 300^100/140-100 OPA        50   23                  100000   75000               6,725,000.00
__                                                            ______                       -          6,725,000.00
38            OPA             31   13                  100000   75000               4,075,000.00
39_OPA                  52                                                                            4,075,000.00
39OCPA  52  -  -        125000                               6,500,000.00
157*100    PNP      0.36 ___              3130260                                1,126,893.60
Cashew      1                    85000                     =             85,000.00
_  =       7,711,893.60
40            OPA             36                       100000                       3,600,000.00
____   ________                               3,600,000.00
__=_=_=_.                                                44,868,621.66



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
_________   ______                             TWEAPEASE
__    FARMI                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L     M      S   SDLG   L       M        S     SDLG            P               P
41            OPW        5                    80000                                400,000.00
l_ _________ OPA                   18      .                   75000               1,350,000.00
PL              16                        6400                        102,400.00
50*50      CA            0.02                     1645061                         32,901.22
I  -   ___________________  =____________  = =____________ =______________   ______________________________  1,88 5 ,3 0 1.22
42            OPA            26    12                 100000  75000               3,500,000.00
PL         12       -            8000 __96,000.00                                      _
111*50     CA            0.12                     1645061                        197,407.32
______ =______________                  3,793,407.32
43            OPA            13                       100000                      1,300,000.00   .-
80*50      CA            0.09_                    1645061               _        148,055.49
PL          9                    8000                                  72,000.00
50*53      PNP      0.06  _              3130260                                 187,815.60
___                    =______ =_______ =______                              ._______________        1,707,871.09
44 168*100    Cocoa    234                    23000                               5,382,000.00 
- OPA 3 = = = 125~~~~~~2000                                            5,325,000.00
________OPA        10 ___125000 ___________                                  1,250,000.00
OR          1                   70000                                  70,000.00  _
_________   =______       =_____ =  =__________.__                                                6,702,000.00
45 168*100    Cocoa    234   _                23000                               5,382,000.00
OPA        10                  125000                                1,250,000.00
__________ OR          1                   70000_                                 70,000.00  ___
_ ________  _______                      _______          ______          _______________         6,702,000.00
46            OPA      =     32   -    -              100000                      3-,200,000.00  .-
i  76*80      BA        169                    8000                               1,352,000.00
49*70      Cocoa     47                    23000                                1,081,000.00        _
AVP         2                   70000                                 140,000.00
Cashew      2  _                85000                                 170,000.00
Guava       1                   40000                                  40,000.00
l_____  _______________  5,983,000.00
_______ = =_==_-                                        26,773,579.63



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/   |_    |_SIZES                   |             RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG             P               P
47             PL         28                      8000         _                       224,000.00
115*70     CA             0.18   =                   1645061                        296,110.98
___________ BA         6       X____           8000                                  48,000.00
_______                                          ______           _______________          568,110.98
48             PL        48                       8000                                 384,000.00
121*100    CA             0.27                       1645061                        444,166.47
Pawpaw      6                      7000                                   42,000.00
__________ OPW         14                     80000                                1,120,000.00
_____ =__=__                             -______________         1,990,166.47
49 100*57     Cocoa_           79                         18400                       1,453,600.00
1,453,600.00
50 250*100    Cocoa     -           344                           13800               4,747,200.00
PL               36                          6400                        230,400.00
_________ OPW          6                      80000                                 480,000.00
_____     ,______                        =_______________        5,457,600.00
51 250*100    Cocoa                 344                           13800               4,747,200.00
PL               36                          6400                        230,400.00
_________   OPW         6                     80000                                 480,000.00 _    _   _    _
__________                 =______ =__________.____                                                  5,457,600.00
52            PL          25                      8000                 _               200,000.00
121 *50    CA             0.13                       1645061                        213,857.93
= =_____            =7-____________       413,857.93
53            OPA              23    30   123            100000   75000   50000      10,700,000.00
_ _______           ____             _____                   ______                                 10,700,000.00
54            OPA         19   13   -           125000   100000                       3,675,000.00
_ _________   _______                _____                   _______          _______________        3,675,000 .00
55            OPA              16    23                  100000   75000               3,325,000.00    ,_      _
___==__                                  3,325,000.00
56            OPA          7   14   -           125000   100000 ____                  2,275,000.00
_ 123*100     PNP       0.28                   3130260 X___                            876,472.80
_______ =______ =_____                                    3,151,472.80
_ _________  _______                 _____  _______  _______  _______         _______________       36,192,408.18



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG             P       __P
1 100*100    CA             0.23                      1645061                         378,364.03
I __ _________ OPA        5   11              125000    10U000                       1,725,000.00
_________BA        29                      8000                     =            232,000.00
AVP         1                     70000                                   70,000.00
______                                   2,405,364.03
2 100*75/50*50 Cocoa   103   34                23000    18400        _              2,994,600.00
______OPA             21   15                  100000   75000                3,225,000.00
6,219,600.00
3 100*75/50'50 Cocoa   103   34                23000    18400                       2,994,600.00
_______     OPA            21    15                  100000   75000               3,225,000.00
6,219,600.00
4 326*100    Cocoa     449                     23000                               10,327,000.00
Guava       4                     40000                          -       160,000.00
OR          1                     70000                                   70,000.00
_________ AVP          2                     70000                                  140,000.00
OPW         4                     80000                                  320,000.00
BA         18                      8000                                  144,000.00
-         11,161,000.00
5 90*100     PL        250                      8000                                2,000,000.00
72*100     CA             0.16                      1645061                         263,209.76
________    OPW W      1  =80000                                                     80,000.00
83*100     Cocoa     114                     23000                                2,622,000.00
BA         14                      8000                                  112,000.00
_  -   __  _  5,077,209.76
6            Cocoa           43   _                     18400                         791,200.00
PL         12  =___                8000                 _                 96,000.00
_____  _______  _______                  _______________           887,200.00
7 70*100     Cocoa                 96                           13800               1,324,800.00  __
70*100     PL        194                      8000                                 1,552,000.00
OPA                   14                        _75000                 1,050,000.00
_  .  =-                                                               3,926,800.00
_____ ________                           ________________        35,896,773.79



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
\SHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES               TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG            P                P
8 250*100    Cocoa     344                     23000                               7,912,000.00
Guava      27                    40000          __    _               1,080,000.00
__________  OPA                  23                           75000               1,725,000.00
-         10,717,000.00
9 70*62      PL        121                      8000                                 968,000.00
70*62      CY        0.09                  1940426                                 174,638.34_
107*100    CA             0.24_                     1645061                        394,814.64
1,537,452.98
10 142*100    Cocoa     196    _               23000                        _       4,508,000.00
AVP         3                     70000                                 210,000.00
OPW         1                     80000                                  80,000.00
_______                                                   4,798,000.00
11 152*40     Cocoa    _            88                          13800               1,214,400.00
152*40     CA             0.34                      1645061                        559,320.74
1,773,720.74
12 194*100    Cocoa     267                    23000                                6,141,000.00
AVP         7                     70000        _                        490,000.00
______  ____6,631,000.00
13 100*100    Cocoa     138                     23000                               3,174,000.00
BA         11                      8000                                  88,000.00
__________ OR          1   _                 70000                                  70,000.00
= _________                =______ =______________                                                  3,332,000.00
14 86*100     Cocoa          118         112             18400           9200       3,201,600.00
3,201,600.00
15            OPA             27                        100000                      2,700,000.00
_ 115*100      PNP      0.26                  2947560                                 766,365.60
= _________  _______            =______                                                             3,466,365.60
____=_=_-_                                               32,255,539.32
.~~~~~-                                                                  __,JW',.~



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
XSHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
APITISO
FARM/                    SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L   M     S     SDLG   L        M        S     SDLG             P             _P
1 210*100    Cocoa    289                     23000                               6,647,000.00
BA         16                     8000                                 128,000.00
-   184*50L+S  Cocoa    127-       127          23000           13800               4,673,600.00
PL        =    =    256                           4800                1,228,800.00
142*50     CAICY         0.16                      1645061                        263,209.76
_______ =______ = =____                        -         12,940,609.76
2 100-100/206-100 Cocoa  138  284             23000    18400                      8,399,600.00
l=_       --   OPW        6                     80000                                 480,000.00
PL         37                     8000                                 296,000.00
BA         12                     8000                                  96,000.00
_ ___                  _______  _______  ______                                 9,271,600.00
3 322*100    Cocoa    444                     23000                              10,212,000.00     ,_     ,
PL         31                     8000                                 248,000.00
AVP         2  =     =           70000                                 140,000.00
BA         18                     8000                                 144,000.00
_         10,744,000.00
4 196* 100   Cocoa     270 =_=_23000                                              6,210,000.00
BA         19                     8000                       _         152,000.00         _
AVP         3                    70000                                 210,000.00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  6 ,572 ,0 0 0 .00
5 100*53     Cocoa     _     73  -                     18400                       1,343,200.00      6,572,000.00
52*80      PNP      0.09                  3130260                                 281,723.40
= _________ PL         4                     8000                                  32,000.00
_________  ______  _____           ______                                  1,656,923.40
6 200*100    Cocoa     275                    23000                               6,325,000.00     ,_      _
=______   =______ =_____=_____.___                                                      6,325,000.00
7 243*100    Cocoa     335                    23000                               7,705,000.00
OR          6                    70000 _                               420,000.00
OPW         8                    80000                                 640,000.00
8,765,000.00
_______  _______    _______________56,275,133.16



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
SHANTI REGION                                                   CROP VALUATION
APITISO                   _
|   FARM/                     SIZES                         RATES                TOTAL VALUE             AMOUNT
_   ACREAGE     KIND     L     M     S   SDLG      L        M        S      SDLG   0          r         _      _P
8             OPA                    24                            75000                1,800,000.00
_ ________   AVP                   21                            42000                  882,000.00
2,682,000.00
9 257o100/100-100 OPA          42    16                   100000   75000                5,400,000.00
205*50      Cocoa                 141                            13800                1,945,800.00
__________ PL            4                       8000                                    32,000.00
BA          12                       8000             -_                     96,000.00
183*100     CA             0.42                        1645061                          690,925.62
__                                                                                                          8,164,725.62
10 100*50      Cocoa            22    69                    18400   13800                1,357,000.00
__                       =     =     =                                       =1,357,000.00
11             OPA              16                         100000                        1,600,000.00
OR           1  _         _         70000                                    70,000.00
BA          11                       8000                  _                 88,000.00
-          1,758,000.00
12 200*100     Cocoa     275                      23000                                  6,325,000.00
AVP          2                      70000                                   140,000.00
_ _ OR                  3                      70000                                    210,000.00
-          6,675,000.00
13 186*100     OPA              31                         100000                        3,100,000.00
100*84      PNP       0.19                   3130260                                    594,749.40
OPW          4                      80000       ____                  -_320,000.00
4,014,749.40
24,651,475.02
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W .- L.lE



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
APITISO
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M     S  SDLG      L       M        S     SDLG            P               P
14 138^60/210-80 OPA         14   29      ___    -   100000   75000               3,575,000.00
_____OPW             19                    80000                     _         1,520,000.00
Pawpaw     3                     6000                                  18,000.00
BA        18                     8000                                 144,000.00    _
Cocoa           48   _                   18400                        883,200.00
___       _              .         ~~~~~~~~~~6,140,200.00
1 5          OPW        16                    80000                               1,2810,000.00
MA         2   -         -      70000                                 140,000.00
Cashew     4                    70000_     ___                        280,000.00
1121*100   PNP      0.27                  3130260                                845,170.20
_                      ~~~~~~~~2,545,170.20
1 .6 120'100/180'100 OPA     20   30                 100000   75000               4,250,000.00
= ________ OPW      34-14                  80000    64000                      3,616,000.00             -
Pawpaw     2                     6000       _                          12,000.00
PL         4                     8000                                  32,000.00
!  ___                      _     __-                    7,910,000.00
17           OPA        23   61              125000   100000                      8,975,000.00
=_ _   _ _  =  = =  -  -         -       -8,975,000.00
25,570,370.20



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                            CROP VALUATION
APITIKOOKO
FARM/                   SIZES                     RATES              TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M    S   SDLG     L       M       S     SDLG           P               P
1 100*100   OPA                  16              l        | 75000             1,200,000.00
156*100    PNP     0.35                 3130260                              1,095,591.00
._______         2,295,591.00
2 200*100    CA           0.45                     1645061                      740,277.45
OPA            11           _     -    100000                     1,100,000.00
1,840,277.45
3 180*50    OPA                  15                         75000              1,125,000.00   ._      _
-          1,125,000.00
4 163*50    CA            0.18                  _ 1645061                       296,110.98
-           296,110.98
5 115*50    CA            0.13 1                   1645061                      213,857.93
115*50     PNP          0.13                     2947560                      383,182.80
115*50     OPA                 10       _                 75000               750,000.00
1,347,040.73
6 49*50      PNP     0.05                 3130260                               156,513.00    ,_      _
-           156,513.00
7 76*50     PNP      0.09                 3130260                               281,723.40
OPA             7                      100000                       700,000.00
-           981,723.40
8           OPA             10                      100000                     1,000,000.00
=  .  _    1,000,000.00
9 50*30     PNP           0.03                     2947560                       88,426.80
-            88,426.80
10 50*20     PNP           0.02                     2947560              _        58,951.20
= =            = = _ _ 58,951.20
11 20*20     PNP      0.01                 3130260                                31,302.60
-            31,302.60
12 142*70    PNP      0.23                 3130260                               719,959.80
719,960.00
9,940,897.16



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
APITIKOOKO
FARMI                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M       S      SDLG   0         P                P
13 100-88/100-100 OPA    10   12   14         125000   100000   75000               3,500,000.00 ______       __
100*100 L  PNP      0.23                  3130260                                  719,959.80
PL                   29                            4800                 139,200.00 .-
-0 <-   _  4,359,159.80
14 187*100    OPA             31                       100000                       3,100,000.00
-   187*100    PNP      0.42                  3130260                                1,314,709.20
-   100*50     CA            0.11            __    _   1645061       __                180,956.71
__________ MA               1                         56000       _                 56,000.00         _
4,651,665.91
15 73*100     OPA                  12                           75000                 900,000.00
73*100     PNP      0.16              _   3130260                    _             500,841.60
73* 100    CA             0.16                      1645061                        263,209.76         _
-          1,664,051.36
16            OPA              8                       100000                         800,000.00
70*100     PNP      0.16                  3130260                                  500,841.60
=  0  X 00  1,300,841.60
17 100*100    PNP      0.23                  3130260                                  719,959.80 9
=  =  =  =   .  _  719,959.80
18 308*75     Teak      118                   112000                                13,216,000.00
= =                              __        _     _       13,216,000.00
19_           OPA        28                   125000                                3,500,000.00
= ________ OPL        42   21    28          80000   64000   48000                6,048,000.00
Cocoa                138                          13800                1,904,400.00
____=___=______         11,452,400.00
__=_=_-                                 37,364,078.47
= _________ =______       =______ =_______________                                                  58,607,975.63



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                    CROP VALUATION
FARM/_______________             NHYIAESO
FARM/    ______            SIZES                         RATES                 TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND     L    M     S    SDLG      L        M        S      SDLG             P       __P
1 __________ PL           36   11                  8000      6400                         358,400.00
__________ OPW           3                      80000                                    240,000.00
598,400.00
2             PL          31                       8000                                    248,000.00
60*80       Sugarcane  0.12                   1828522                                    219,422.64
OPW          7                      80000                                    560,000.00
-           1,027,422.64
3             PL          11 _=_=                  8000                                    88,000.00
OPA          4     2               125000    100000     _                    700,000.00
_                 .                                           _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 788,000.00
4             BA          18                       8000                          _         144,000.00
70*81       S'cane    0.13  =                 1828522                            .._     237,707.86
OPW          6                      80000                                    480,000.00
_            861,707.86
51            PL          15                       8000                                    120,000.00
72*74       S'cane    0.12                    1828522                                    219,422.64
OPW          8             _        80000 _                                  640,000.00
________-                           979,422.64
6             OPW         12                      80000                                    960,000.00
=  _  =  =   960,000.00
7 372*100     S'cane    0.85                    1828522                                  1,554,243.70
=_________ OPW                15       =      _X____      64000                          960,000.00
_          2,514,243.70
8             PL          29                       8000                                    232,000.00         .
OPW          9                      80000                                    720,000.00
9131  =0 Teak                                                                     _               ,           952,000.00
9 310*80      Teak     _____   127                          89000 _                      11,303,000.00
_ _ _ _ __ __ __ _ _ _11,303,000.00
_______   _____   ________  ____ ___  _______   _______________I       9 ,9 84 ,196 .84



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                    CROP VALUATION
______  ___________________     OBUASI
FARM/    _          SIZES                  RATES            TOTAL VALUE        AMOUNT
ACREAGE  KIND   L    M   S  SDLG    L      M           SDLG          P            P
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
1 200*100  OPA    28                125000
-85*100     Cocoa   120                23000                     __
85*100   Coffee   59                23000                     _             _
96*50    Or       25                70000             _
OPA      51                125000
200*100  Co      2761               23000            _
178*100  Or       40 =_=            _ 70000
1           Ba       47                 8000       _
- 115*60    Cocoa    96                23000                 _
l_115*60    OPA      14               125000
-       ~~    ~~Ma  1               70000 _______
AVP       4                 70000 _      _       _
IS -              I__________  I  I  I  I   111_1141633
___                                      _1144,016,263.33          __
_~~~~~~~~~~ ..



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                   CROP VALUATION
TAKYIKROM                                             _
FARM/_;         |         SIZES                         RATES                TOTAL VALUE             AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L     M     S   SDLG      L        M        S     SDLG                            _P
Cocoa       52                     23000     18600        _               1,196,000.00
OPW        24                      80000                      _           1,920,000.00
OR          2                      70000                                    140,000.00
MA          3                      70000                                   210,000.00
__________ AVP          5                      70000                            -      350,000.00
CN           3                    100000                                   300,000.00
OPA        42                     125000                                  5,250,000.00
_   .                                              _                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9,366,000.00
2 227*50      CA             0.26                       1645061                          427,715.86  9_366_000_00
227*50      OPA                    19                            75000                1,425,000.00
OPW         34      _               80000                                 2,720,000.00
__      _   MA           1                     70000                                    70,000.00
__________ AVP  1                   70000                                    70,000.00
CN           1                     100000                                   100,000.00
PL               27   =                       6400                          172,800.00  5_515_86
-          4,985,515.86
3 56*50       CA             0.06                        1645061 _    _                   98,703.66
56*50       OPA                     5                            75000                 375,000.00
= _________ OPW          3=                    80000                                   240,000.00
-            713,703.66
4             OPA         12    7               125000    100000                        2,200,000.00
Pawpaw       4            _          6000                                   24,000.00
_  _        2,224,000.00
5 234*50      CA             0.26                        1645061                         427,715.86
PL               18                           6400                          115,200.00
120*50      CY             0.13                        1556756                         202,378.28  5_294_14
14-          745,294.14
6 124 *50     CA             0.14                        1645061                         230,308.54             .
__________ PL                64                           6400                         409,600.00
124*50      CY             0.14                        1556756                         217,945.84          857_854.38
857,854.38
18,892,368.04
_ -     R      ,                                                                        __. .



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                  CROP VALUATION
TAKYIKROM
FARMI                     SIZES                        RATES       .        TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND    L     M    S    SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG                      _P__
7 224*50      CA             0.25                       1645061                         411,265.25
= _________ PL               12  =                       6400                          76,800.00 _
224*50      OPA                    18                           75000                1,350,000.00
_____                         -          ~1,838,065.25
8             OPA        27    18               125000   100000                       5,175,000.00
MA           1                     70000            ___                    70,000.00
-      -           -                                                               5,245,000.00
9 33*50       Yam            0.03                       1063343                          31,900.29
67'50       Ca             0.07                       1645061                         115,154.27
._________  ______        -            147,054.56
10 37*50       Yam       -    0.04  -                    1063343                          42,533.72
37*50       Ca             0.04                       1645061                          65,802.44
_ ______                                _______                                 -            108,336.16
11 33*50       Ca             0.03                       1645061                          49,351.83
33*50       Yam            0.03                       2036243                          61,087.29
=      =____               ._____                                 -            110,439.12
12             OPA               7                        100000                         700,000.00
OPW          61                    80000                                  480,000.00 _
_                                                                              .          1,180,000.00
13             OPA               8                        100000                         800,000.00  ____
______                        -            800,000.00
14   _         OPW         19  -                  80000                                 1,520,000.00    _
159*100     CA             0.36                       1645061                         592,221.96
138*100      Cocoa           -     52                            13800 _               717,600.00     ____
=  _  _   = =-                                    2,829,821.96
15             OPA        16                     125000       _                        2,000,000.00
_______  MA         2   -                 70000                                   140,000.00
AVP          1                     70000                                   70,000.00
50*50       PNP       0.05              -    3130260                                  156,513.00
_  ._   ___._  _____.___.__.2,366,513.00
-       -    - =______                       -       -                            14,625,230.05



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                 CROP VALUATION
TAKYIKROM
FARM/                    SIZES                        RATES                TOTAL VALUE             AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S    SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG         _P __
16 100*100    CA             0.23                       1645061                         378,364.03
= _________ OPW        8                      80000-                                 640,000.00
Pawpaw      4                      6000                                    24,000.00 
=_____ .  =    =_=-                                                                         1,042,364.03
17            OPA        11                    125000                                  1,375,000.00
=_____    =     =    =                                                    .  .1,375,000.00
18            OPW        24                     80000                                  1,920,000.00
, -,        1,920,000.00
19         O_ PA         33        -           125000                                  4,125,000.00        .
MA          2                     70000 _                                 140,000.00
PL          7                      8000         _                          56,000.00
_______                      ~     ~    ~~~~~- 4,321,000.00
20            OPA        31                     125000                     _           3 875 000.00
______                                            ______                        -           3,875,000.00
21 274*100    CA        -    0.62  -     -              1645061                        1,019,937.82
- __                                =    777  7 7_          =                 1,019,937.82
22            OPW        76                      80000                                 6,080,000.00
AVP          1                    70000                      _70_000 00
(72*80)+63  COCOA     142                     23000                                 3,266,000.00
= _   .  _ OR        _                - 1  O_                  42000                  42,000.00
437*100    PNP       1.01                   3130260                                 3,161,562.60
MA          1                     70000                                    70,000.00
= ________ CN           1  -    -            100000      __ _                         100,000.00
______                         -         12,789,562.60
23            OPA        36                     125000                    _            4,500,000.00
=______=__=___,           4,500,000.00
24 100*80     CA             0.18                       1645061                         296,110.98
=___ = =-                                   296,110.98
25 60*100     COCOA            78                         18400                        1,435,200.00
=- _  =  =                  =        ___1,435,200.00
_______                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~32,574,175.43-



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
- MANUKROM                 __                          __
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M     S    SDLG    L       M       S     SDLG   0         P               P
1 __________ OPA       56   60              125000  100000                     13,000,000.00
50*80      PNP      0.09                 3130260             _                  281,723.40
PL        86                     8000                                688,000.00_
= _________ Pawpaw    4                     6000                                 24,000.00
216*80     Ca            0.39                     1645061    _   ___            641,573.79
_                _ _                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14,635,297.19 
2 200*100    Cocoa    275                    23000                              6,325,000.00
I_                                       -          6,325,000.00
3 100*30    PNP      0.06                 3130260                                187,815.60
OPW        17                   80000       _ _                     1,360,000.00
OR          5                   70000                                350,000.00
Kola        3                   70000                                210,000.00
__  .                                     _--                      -         2,107,815.60
4 116*70     Ca            0.18    _                1645061                       296,110.98
OPA         3        30        125000           75000               2,625,000.00
P- P        8  -    -            8000                                 64,000.00
264* 100   Cocoa     3631                  23000                              8,349,000.00
AVP         2                   70000                                140,000.00
OR          6                   70000                  __   _        420,000.00
MA          1                   70000                     _           70,000.00
~~~~~~~~~__                                 __                _                       11,964,110.98
5 394*100   Cocoa     542                    23000                                                196412,46,000 o
MA          2  -                70000                   _   _        140,000.00
_________          ______                      -         12,606,000.00
6 228-100/58-100 Cocoa  314  79                  O 23000  18400   _ ____        8,675,600.00
AVP         1                   70000                                 70,000.00
BA         10        _           8000                                 80,000.00
OR          2                   70000                                140,000.00
8,965,600.00
__   _.__       __  =     =    =5_ _                                                       -    36,603,823.77



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
MANUKROM
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES              | TOTAL VALUE         AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L     M    S   SDLG     L       M        S     SDLG   .       P      _P
7 464*100    Cocoa    639 .                  23000                             14,697,000.00
60*50      CY       0.06                 1940426                                116,425.56
OR         4                    70000                                280,000.00 
AVP         1                   70000                                 70,000.00
_  _   .   15,163,425.56
8 122*8      CA           0.02                      1645061                        32,901.22
OPA             32                      100000                      3,200,000.00
3,232,901.22
18,396,326.78



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                 CROP VALUATION
_           .            AMPUNYASE JUNCTION                                       _
FARM/                     SIZES                       RATES                 TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S    SDLG     L        M        S      SDLG             P                p
1 167*100    Cocoa     230                     23000                                  5,290,000.00
_ ____                         -          5,290,000.00
2 300*100    Cocoa     413                     23000               __                 9,499,000_00
23 0   _ _ _ _ _ ___  ___ _ _9        4 9 0 0 0
OR          2                     70000                                   140,000.00
_  __  .   9,639,000.00
3 97*100     Cocoa     133                      23000                         _       3,059,000.00
-              Kola        1                     70000    _              ____             70,000.00
O_ PA          5    19   19         125000    100000                        2,525,000.00
143*100    CA             0.32                       1645061                         526,419.52
A06,180,419.52
4 344*100    CA        -    0.25                       1645061                         411,265.25      _
344*100    OPA              57                        100000              __5,700,000.00
303* 100   CO        417                      23000                                 9,591,000.00
Kola        2                     70000                                   140,000.00
OR          3                     70000                       __          210,000.00
=   ____   =    =    =     =                                                      _-       16,052,265.25
5 46*70   _ Cocoa       44                      23000                _                1,012,000.00
198*100    CA             0.45                       1645061                          740,277.45
Guava       2                     40000           _                        80,000.00
188*100    CA             0.43                       1645061                          707,376.23
100*61     PNP       0.14                   3130260                                  438,236.40
_______ |  |  1 3 ,     W5                =           -     2,977,890.08
40,139,574.85



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                          CROP VALUATION
SIKANEASEM             -__
FARM/                  SIZES                    RATES             TOTAL VALUE         AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND   L    M    S   SDLG    L       M       S    SDLG           P              P
1           OPA      22        21        125000          75000             4,325,000.00
PL        12                   8000                              96,000.00
__________ Pawpaw    1            _      6000                               6,000.00
Cocoa     23                  23000                              529,000.00
_________ iOPW       6                  80000                              480,000.00_
t______                ___I_I_I_I_I_I___L   5,436,000.00
5,436,000.00



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                  CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE NO.2 2                                _
FARM/    _   _   |        SIZES   _   _                RATES                TOTALVALUE             AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L     M    S   SDLG      L        M        S     SDLG              P                P
1 347*70      Cassava        0.55                -      1645061                        904,783.55
OPA              53                        100000                       5,300,000.00
___________ Pawpaw      5                       6000                                   30,000.00
___________ Kola            -                  700-                                    70,000.00
_ _-                                                                         6,304,783.55
2 ____         OPA       33    16              125000    100000                       5,725,000.00        .
I           ~~     ~~PL  261                     8000                                  208,000 so
BA          121                     8000   16,00000 
122*100     Pineapple  0.28  -3130260                                                 876,472.80
_                                                                             7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,905,472.80
33OPA                    33    16               125000   1000005725000
_________ .___PL       26                      8000                                  208,000.00
__________ BA          12                      8000               ___                 96,000.00
122*100     Pineapple  0.28                 3130260                                   876,472.80
__._._                        -          6,905,472.80
4 147*100     CA             0.33                       1645061                         542,870.13
OPA              25                        100000                       2,500,000.00
100*50      PNP       0.11  -               3130260                                   344,328.60
-          3,387,198.73
5             OPA        32                    125000                                 4,000,000.00
AVP          1                     70000                                   70,000.00
-          4,070,000.00
6 207*100     Cocoa     285                      2     000                            6,555,000.00
AVP          2                     70000                                  140,000.00
OPW         19                     80000                                 1,520,000.00
-T OR2                -            70000                                  140,000.00
_Cocoa      63                     23000                                 1,449,000.00
_  _     _ 9,804,000.00
7             Cocoa   _      57    -             23000              -                 1,311,000.00
OR           1                     70000                                   70,000.00
MA           1                     70000                                   70,000.00
AVP          1  _                  70000_               _                  70,000.00
OPW               5                         64000                         320,000.00
__________                                  _______            ._____  ______  _______________         1,841,000.00
________ ________ _______ ________________                37,376,927.88
I'    ..
_ __._.,_M~-   , ,   ,    ;     ,    ,        -     ,r , ~      .  .+-r ':        _ _ _ _ _ ' - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                           CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE NO. 2    .         _
FARM/                  SIZES                     RATES              TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND   L    M    S   SDLG     L       M       S     SDLG           P               P
8           OPA       18   22             125000  100000                     4,450,000.00
PL        12                    8000                                96,000.00
Pawpaw     4                    6000                                24,000.00
= 80*80       PNP     0.14                 3130260                              438,236.40   6_40
_______        ________________       5,008,236.40



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S   SDLG      L        M       S     SDLG            P      __P
1            OPA        32   17    13         125000   100000  75000               6,675,000.00
BA         27                      8000                                 216,000.00
-         _ 6,891,000.00
2            OPA        81                    125000                               10,125,000.00   *_       _
l __ 91*100      CA             0.2                       100000                         20,000.00
i  ___-                                         10,145,000.00
3 183*100    Cocoa                252    48                     13800    9200      3,919,200.00 __
PL               22                         6400                        140,800.00
= _________ OPW              6 =                      64000                        384,000.00
MA                    161                          42000                672,000.00
-          5,116,000.00
4 173*100    Cocoa                238                           13800               3,284,400.00
OPA                   10                           75000                750,000.00
AVP         2            _        70000                                 140,000.00
BA          8                      8000                                  64,000.00
-          4,238,400.00
5 125*100    Cocoa     172                     23000                                3,956,000.00
AVP         4                     70000                                 280,000.00
_     ~    4,236,000.00
6 200*100    Cocoa     275                     23000                                6,325,000.00
_ 1                                                                                                   6,325,000.00
7 94*100     Cocoa     129                     23000                                2,967,000.00
2,967,000.00
8 135*100    Cocoa                186                           13800               2,566,800.00
PL         12                      8000                                  96,000.00
_   135*100    PNP        0.3                  3130260              _                  939,078.00
_   3,601,878.00
= _________ .______  =_______ =__=__=                                                              43,520,278.00



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                 CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE                     -
FARM/                     SIZES   _RATES                                   TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L     M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG             P               P
9 77*100     CA             0.17                       1645061                        279,660.37
77*100     OPA                    11_                          75000                825,000.00
-          1,104,660.37
10            PL          5                       8000                                  40,000.00
165*100     OPA       -      11                        100000        -------1,100,000.00
65*100     CA             0.14                       1645061                        230,308.54
OPW         1                     80000                                   80,000.00
-       = =-                    1,450,308.54
11 118*100    CA             0.27                       1645061                        444,166.47
118* 100   OPA                    17_                          75000               1,275,000.00
PL                6                          6400                         38,400.00
-          1,757,566.47
12            OPA        40                     125000                                5,000,000.00
5,000,000.00
131           OPA        26    46               125000   100000                       7,850,000.00
AVP          1                     70000                                  70,000.00
-          7,920,000.00
141           OPA        59    11    15   -     125000   100000   75000               9,600,000.00
_ 50*50     Cocoa                 34                            13800                469,200.00
= _________ PL               6 =                        6400                         38,400.00
AVP               1                         56000                         56,000.00
OR                     8                 _   __    42000                 336,000.00
_                                                                                                    10,499,600.00
15 300*100    Cocoa                413                            13800               5,699,400.00 
OPW         8                     80000                                  640,000.00
1300*100    OPA                   50                            75000               3,750,000.00    ,
AVP               3                         56000       _                168,000.00
,00          10,257,400.00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  .__ _ _ _ _             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   3 7 , 9 8 9 , 5 3 5 . 3 8



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                            CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                   SIZES                     RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M    S   SDLG     L       M        S    SDLG            P            _P
16 50*80     CA            0.09                     1645061                       148,055.49
PL             16                        6400                       102,400.00
=           250,455.49
17           PL              30                        6400                       192,000.00
50*81      CA           0.09                     1645061                       148,055.49
-           340,055.49
18 _       _ OPA        19  _               125000                              2,375,000.00
_  .       2,375,000.00
19           OPW        43   21              80000    64000                     4,784,000.00
OPA            26    11                100000   75000              3,425,000.00
______ _  -8,209,000.00
20            OPA       23         8        125000           75000              3,475,000.00
_          3,475,000.00
21 107100/403-100 OPA   18        67        125000           75000              7,275,000.00
BA        13              _      8000                      _        104,000.00
Pawpaw     3   ____              6000                                18,000.00_
_-                                                                      7,397,000.00
22 245*100    OPA            49                      100000                     4,900,000.00
_                                                                              _                   4,900,000.00
23 210*100    CA           0.48                     1645061                       789,629.28
_________                         ______                      -           789,629.28
24 131*60     PL       218                    8000                               1,744,000.00 _
OPW        7                    80000                               560,000.00
80*50      OPA             6                      100000                       600,000.00
Pawpaw     3                     6000                                18,000.00
_________                                       2,922,000.00
= _________              =__=___                                                               30,658,140.26



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                    SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M    S     SDLG   L        M       S     SDLG            P                P
25 125*100    CA            0.28                     1645061                        460,617.08
PL         26_                    8000                                208,000.00
=                         668,617.08
26 100* 100   PNP           0.23                     2947560                        677,938.80
Pawpaw      5                     6000                                 30,000.00
OPW         2  =    =            80000                                160,000.00
PL          3                     8000                                 24,000.00
891,938.80
27            OPA         3        40         125000           75000              3,375,000.00
186*100    PNP           0.42                     2947560                       1,237,975.20
=  = =   .  ~  4,612,975.20
28 _ ___ OPA              7                   125000 _____                          875,000.00_
__________ MA          1                    70000                                 70,000.00 _
AVP         1                    70000                                 70,000.00
Cocoa       8                    23000                                184,000.00
__ ______ PL          12_                    8000                                 96,000.00
_ ________  ______                                _______  ______                      -          1,295,000.00
29            CN          4                   100000                                400,000.00
MA          1                    70000                                 70,000.00
=________ OPW          9                    80000                                720,000.00
_________ Cocoa        7  =                 23000                                161,000.00
OR          4                    70000                                280,000.00
_ BA          6                     8000                                  48,000.00
-          1,679,000.00
30_           CN          1                   100000                                100,000.00         100,000.00
_____               ______  _______  _______________         ~~~100,000.00
_________  ______  _______  _______  ______       _______________         9,247,531.08



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
l __    FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L   M      S   SDLG      L        M       S      SDLG            P                P
131              OPA              6    2                  100000   75000                 750,000.00
Apple       2                     40000                        _         80,000.00
= ________  CN              2                         80000                         160,000.00
= ________                =     =990,000.00
32            OPA        48                    125000                                6,000,000.00
CN               2                         80000                        160,000.00
-  ______  __ ___  -    6,160,000.00
33 106*100+27 OPA             42                        100000                       4,200,000.00
=______                        _______  ________          _______              -          4,200,000.00
34 106*100+27 OPA             45                        100000 o4,500,000.00
4,500,000.00
35 100*100L   OPA             18    17       _          100000   75000               3,075,000.00
100*100    Ca             0.23                      1645061                         378,364.03 ____
=  =   -   3,453,364.03
36 96*100     OPA             18    17                  100000   75000               3,075,000.00
100*100    Ca             0.23                      1645061                         378,364.03
-        =       = = == -                                                                               3,453,364.03
I37 300100/140 100 OPA        50    23                  100000   75000               6,725,000.00
= _________  =______       =    =______ =_____                                _                      6,725,000.00
38            OPA             31    13                  100000   75000               4,075,000.00
= _________  =______       =__=_=                                                  _                 4,075,000.00
39            OPA        52                    125000                  -______       6,500,000.00
157*100    PNP       0.36                  3130260                                1,126,893.60
l _ __________ Cashew      1                     85000                                  85,000.00
-          7,711,893.60
40            OPA              36                       100000                       3,600,000.00
=______ = =______________                3,600,000.00
=_._=_=                                 44,868,621.66



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
TWEAPEASE
FARM/                    SIZES                        RATES               | TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG      L        M       S      SDLG                              P
41            OPW         5                     80000                                  400,000.00
OPA                   18                           75000                1,350,000.00
PL              16                          6400                         102,400.00
50*50      CA             0.02                      1645061                          32,901.22
I  __       ________  ________  _______                      -          1,885,301.22
42            OPA             26    12                  100000   75000                3,500,000.00
=           PL         12                      8000              _                    96,000.00
111 *50    CA             0.12                      1645061            _             197,407.32
___   _ __   __-  3,793,407.32
43            OPA              13                       100000                        1,300,000.00
80*50      CA             0.09                      1645061 ___                      148,055.49
PL          9                      8000                                   72,000.00
50*53      PNP      0.06                   3130260                                   187,815.60
______                                           ______                         -          1,707,871.09
44 168*100    Cocoa     234                     23000                 _               5,382,000.00
OPA        10                    125000                                 1,250,000.00
OR          1                     70000                                   70,000.00
-          6,702,000.00
45 168* 100   Cocoa     234                     23000                                 5,382,000.00    ._      ,
OPA        10                    125000                                 1,250,000.00
OR          1                     70000                                   70,000.00
=   = =  =                    -          6,702,000.00
46            OPA             32    _                   100000                        3,200,000.00
176*80      BA-       169                      8000                                 1,352,000.00
1 49*70        Cocoa      47                     23000                                 1,081,000.00
AVP         2                     70000                                   140,000.00 
Cashew      2                     85000                                   170,000.00
Guava       1                     40000                                   40,000.00
5,983,000.00
=____ =_=_==_-26,773,579.63



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                   CROP VALUATION
_________________      TWEAPEASE_________________
FARM/                      SIZES                TWE     RATES                 TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE      KIND     L    M     S   SDLG      L        M        S      SDLG             P               P
47             PL          28  -                    8000                                   224,000.00
-   115*70      CA             0.18                        1645061                         296,110.98
BA           6                      8000                                    48,000.00
_  ,         568,110.98
48             PL--- P     48  -                    8000                                   384,000.00
121*100     CA             0.27                        1645061                         444,166.47
_               Pawpaw       6                       7000                                    42,000.00
______OPW        14                      80000                                 1,120,000.00
____._                         -          1,990,166.47
49 1 00*57     Cocoa            79                          18400                        1,453,600.00
1,453,600.00
50 250*100     Cocoa           - =   344       _                    13800                4,747,200.00         ,
_    _      PL               36                           6400                          230,400.00
OPW          6                      80000                                   480,000.00
5,457,600.00
51 250*100     Cocoa     -           344                            13800                4,747,200.00         ,
PL              536    _                      6400                          230,400.00
OPW          6                      80000                                   480,000.00
=_ -    ==          =                                                          ,5,457,600.00
52             PL          25                       8000                                   200,000.00
121 50      CA              - | 1.13 I I| 1645061                      |                213,857.93 1   _    _    _
-- I  -     ~       ~       _____-                                               4`13,857.93
53             OPA              23    30   123             100000   75000    50000      10,700,000.00
10,700,000.00
54             OPA         19   13 =_    =_125000          100000                        3,675,000.00
______  -   3,675,000.00
55             OPA              16    23                   100000   75000                3,325,000.00
_______       *          ~~~~3,325,000.00
56             OPA          7   14                125000   100000                        2,275,000.00        3.325,000.00
123*100     PNP       0.28  -                3130260                                    876,472.80
3,151,472.80
_______  ~         T   -36,192,408.18



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE
FARM/                     SIZES                       RATES               TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    M     S  |SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG            P      __P
1 100*100    CA      __     0.23 _     _     _        1645061 _                      378,364.03
OPA         5    11              125000   100000                       1,725,000.00
___________ BA         29                     8000                                  232,000.00_
AVP         1                     70000                                  70,000.00
-          2,405,364.03
2 100*75/50*50 Cocoa    103   34               23000     18400                      2,994,600.00
OPA             21    15                  100000   75000               3,225,000.00
______ =____ =  =6,219,600.00
3 100*75/50'50 Cocoa   103    34  -            23000     18400                      2,994,600.00
__________  OPA             21    15                  100000   75000              3,225,000.00
=          6,219,600.00
4 326*100    Cocoa     449                     23000                               10,327,000.00
Guava       4                     40000                                 160,000.00
__________ OR           1                     70000                                  70,000.00
__________ AVP          2                     70000                                 140,000.00
__________ OPW          4                    80000                 _         -      320,000.00
BA         18                      8000          _                      144,000.00
-         11,161,000.00
5 90*100     PL        250                       8000                  _            2,000,000.00
-   72*100     CA             0.16                      1645061                         263,209.76
OPW         1                     80000                                  80,000.00
83* 100     Cocoa     114                     23000                               2,622,000.00
__________ BA          14                      8000                                 112,000.00
=                           =    =       ,_-                                                          5,077,209.76
6 _    _      Cocoa           43             _           18400                        791,200.00
PL         12                      8000                                  96,000.00
887,200.00
7 70* 100    Cocoa                  96                           13800              1,324,800.00
170* 100    PL        194                      8000     __          _              1,552,000.00
OPA                   14                           75000               1,050,000.00_
3,926,800.00
______. ____  _ ______  ._ _ _ _  . _______   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______   _______   _________________  3 5 ,8 9 6 ,7 7 3 .7 9



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
NYAMEBEKYERE
FARM/                    SIZES                        RATES                TOTAL VALUE             AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    M    SSDLG         L        M        S     SDLG         L   X           _     P__P
8 250*100    Cocoa     344                     23000        _                        7,912,000.00
Guava      27                     40000       _____                     1,080,000.00
= _________ OPA                  23                            75000                1,725,000.00
_________                 _______ ______                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,717,000.00
9 70*62      PL        121                      8000                  _                968,000.00
70*62      CY        0.09             -    1940426                                   174,638.34
107*100    CA             0.24                      1645061                          394,814.64
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,537,452.98
10 142*100    Cocoa     196                     23000                                 4,508,000.00
AVP         3  =___i              70000                                   210,000.00
________ sOPW           1                    80000           _                        80,000.00
_________  ____ _____               ______                        .           4,798,000.00
11152*40      Cocoa                 88                            13800               1,214,400.00
152*40     CA             0.34      _                1645061                         559,320.74
= =           . 1,773,720.74
12 194*100    Cocoa     267_                    23000                                 6,141,000.00
AVP         7                     70000                 _                 490,000.00
=  _  _  =  6,631,000.00
13 100*100    Cocoa     138                     23000                  _              3,174,000.00
BA         11                      8000                                   U88,000.00 
OR          1                     70000                                    70,000.00
=_                  .    =    =                                                                -           3,332,000.00
14 86*100     Cocoa           118        112              18400            9200       3,201,600.00
.     _ _ 3,201,600.00
15_           OPA              27                       100000                        2,700,000.00
115*100    PNP       0.26                  2947560                                   766,365.60
3,466,365.60
= _________          =_______ =______ =_______________                                                32,255,539.32



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
_________ _________APITISO__                        _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _
FARM/           _       SIZES                       RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG             P               P
1 210*100    Cocoa    289                     23000                               6,647,000.00
BA         16                     8000                                 128,000.00
184*50L+S  Cocoa    127        127          23000           13800               4,673,600.00
PL                  256                            4800               1,228,800.00
142*50     CA/CY         0.16                      1645061                        263,209.76
12,940,609.76
2 100100/20610 Cocoa  138   284               23000    18400                      8,399,600.00        ._,
OPW         6                    80000                                 480,000.00
PL         37                     8000                                 296,000.00
BA         12                     8000                                  96,000.00
_______  -  9,271,600.00
3 322*100    Cocoa    444-                    23000                               10,212,000.00
PL         31                     8000                                 248,000.00
AVP         2  -                 70000                                 140,000.00
BA         18                     8000                                 144,000.00
I_                                                                    -         10,744,000.00
4 196*100    Cocoa    270                     23000                               6,210,000.00
BA         19                     8000                                 152,000.00
AVP         3                    70000                                 210,000.00
______                -          6,572,000.00
5 100*53     Cocoa           73                        18400                       1,343,200.00
152*80      PNP      0.09                 3130260                                  281,723.40  ___
_  ________ PL         4                     8000                                  32,000.00        1,656_923.40
______                       ______                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 1,656,923.40
6 200*100    Cocoa    275   -    -     -      23000                     _         6,325,000.00 _
-  -  -  -  _______         _______              -          ~~~~~~~~~6,325,000.00
7 243'100    Cocoa    335   -    -     -      23000                               7,705,000.00        .
OR          6                    70000          _                      420,000.00
OPW         8                    80000                                 640,000.00
-   >         l______           l______     l    ______  l  l  l  i  ______     8,765,000.00
_______                ~~~~~56,275,133.16



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                 CROP VALUATION
____________________            APITISO                                          _
FARM/                    SIZES                        RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L    M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG    0         P            _P
8            OPA                   24                            75000               1,800,000.00
I _________ AVP                  21                            42000                882,000.00
9 257-100/loo_ioo OPA  42                       -          2,682,000.00
J9 257- 100/100'l oo OPA      42    16  .       .       100000   75000               5,400,000.00
205*50      Cocoa                141         _           _     13800               1,945,800.00
PL          4        -             8000                                   32,000.00
__________ BA          12-                     8000       .                           96,000.00
183*100    CA             0.42 ._._1645061                                          690,925.62
__  _   _ _                ,       ~-    8,164,725.62
10 100*50     Cocoa            22   69              _     18400   13800               1,357,000.00
.  .   _   1,357,000.00
1 1           OPA              16                        100000                       1,600,000.00
OR          1                     70000              _                    70,000.00
BA         11                      8000                                   88,000.00
-       ~~1,758,000.00
12 200*100    Cocoa     275   -    -             23000                                6,325,000.00       1,758,000.00
AVP         2                     70000                                  140,000.00
OR          3                     70000                _                 210,000.00
_______  -  6,675,000.00
13 186*100    OPA              31                        100000                       3,100,000.00
100*84      PNP      0.19  -                3130260                                 594,749.40
OPW         4   -                 80000   _   _    _   _                 320,000.00  -_4_014_i49.40
_ -_==_=___- _ _                                 24,014,749.40
_______                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~24,651,475.02



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
*PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
APITISO
FARM/                    SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M    S   SDLG      L       M        S     SDLG            P               P
14 138-60/ 210'80 OPA         14   29                  100000  75000               3,575,000.00
OPW        19                    80000                               1,520,000.00
Pawpaw      3                     6000                                  18,000.00
BA         18                     8000                                 144,000.00 
Cocoa           48                        18400                        883,200.00
=  =  .    6,140,200.00
15            OPW       16                     80000                _              1,280,000.00
MA          2  _                 70000                                 140,000.00 
Cashew      4                    70000                                 280,000.00
121*100    PNP      0.27                  3130260                                 845,170.20
_          2,545,170.20
16 120-100/18o01oo OPA       20    30                  100000  75000               4,250,000.00
OPW        34   14-              80000    64000                       3,616,000.00
Pawpaw      2                     6000                                  12,000.00
PL          4                     8000                                  32,000.00 
-          7,910,000.00
17,           OPA       23    61              125000   100000                      8,975,000.00
________  ________        _______  _______________       8,975,000.00
=________   ____ __  ____ ___ _25,570,370.20
. 



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
APITIKOOKO
FARMI                    SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG             P               P
1 100*100    OPA                   16                          75000               1,200,000.00
156*100    PNP      0.35                  3130260                                1,095,591.00
2,295,591.00
2 200*100    CA            0.45                      1645061                        740,277.45
OPA             11                       100000                       1,100,000.00
1,840,277.45
3 180*50     OPA                   15                          75000               1,125,000.00
=  =   =    =                                                  .  ,     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,125,000.00
4 163*50     CA            0.18                      1645061                        296,110.98
-       ~~296,110.98
5 115*50     CA            0.13                      1645061                        213,857.93
= 115*50       PNP           0.13  =                   2947560                        383,182.80
115*50     OPA                   10                          75000                750,000.00
<  __ __  X X  XX1,347,040.73
6 49*50      PNP      0.05                  3130260                                 156,513.00
156,513.00
7 76*50      PNP      0.09                  3130260                                 281,723.40
OPA              7                       100000                        700,000.00
-           981,723.40
8            OPA             10_                      100000                       1,000,000.00
=  = = =          ,-            1,000,000.00
9 50*30      PNP            0.03                     2947560                         88,426.80
=_____                                                      88,426.80
10 50*20      PNP           0.02                      2947560                         58,951.20 ________
_ _58,951.20
11 20*20      PNP      0.01                  3130260                                  31,302.60
=__=_==________            31,302.60
12 142*70     PNP      0.23                  3130260                                 719,959.80 _____
719,960.00
=_____ =_____=____=___                  9,940,897.16



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                CROP VALUATION
___________________          APITIKOOKO
FARM/                    SIZES                       RATES               TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
_    ACREAGE     KIND    L     M    S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG            P               P
13 100'88/100'100 OPA    10    12   14         125000   100000  75000               3,500,000.00
_ 100*100 L    PNP      0.23         =   =     3130260                                719,959.80
PL                    29                           4800                139,200.00
-          4,359,159.80
14 187*100    OPA       =     31                        100000                      3,100,000.00        _
187* 100   PNP       0.42                  3130260                               1,314,709.20
100*50     CA             0.11                      1645061                        180,956.71
MA                1_                       56000                        56,000.00
=      I _ _  = = =-                                                        4,651,665.91
15 73*100     OPA                   12                          75000                 900,000.00
_ 73*100    PNP      0.16                   3130260                                500,841.60
73*100     CA             0.16                      1645061                        263,209.76
_  _       1,664,051.36
16            OPA               8  =                    100000                        800,000.00
70*100      PNP      0.16                  3130260                                 500,841.60
_______  ______ _______    -         1,300,841.60
17 100*100    PNP       0.23                  3130260                 _       _       719,959.80
= _ _ =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                 =     719,959.80:
18 308*75     Teak      118                    112000                              13,216,000.00
13,216,000.00
19            OPA        28                    125000                               3,500,000.00
=________ _OPL         42   21    28         80000    64000   48000       -       6,048,000.00 _
Cocoa                138                           13800_             1,904,400.00
11,452,400.00
._______                          ._______________      37,364,078.47
-;      -   _______                  _____  _  _______________      58,607,975.63



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
NHYIAESO                             _    _
-_    FARM!                    SIZES                      RATES       _        TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S  SDLG      L       M        S     SDLG            P               P
1            PL         36   11                8000     6400                       358,400.00
= __  _0____  OPW      3                    80000                                240,000.00
-           598,400.00
2        _   PL         31                     8000     ___                        248,000.00
_   60*80      Sugarcane 0.12                 1828522                                219,422.64
=___=_____ OPW         7                    80000                                560,000.00
-          1,027,422.64
3            PL         11                     8000 _____                           88,000.00
OPA         4    2              125000   100000                       700,000.00
=  0   X   0  _-  788,000.00
4            BA         18                     8000                                144,000.00
70*81      S'cane    0.13                 1828522                                 237,707.86
_____OPW               6                    80000                                480,000.00         _
=  =  =  =  861,707.86
5            PL         15                     8000                                120,000.00
_ 72*74        S'cane   0.12                  1828522                                219,422.64
OPW         8                    80000                     _          640,000.00
=____ = = =_                     _-                             979,422.64
6            OPW        12                    80000                                960,000.00
=  = = =   :  :   :  960,000.00
7 372*100    S'cane   0.85                  1828522                               1,554,243.70
OPW             15       _                64000                       960,000.00
__ _                                                                  _ === -  2,514,243.70
8            PL         29                     8000                                232,000.00
OPW         9                    80000                                720,000.00
_  .        952,000.00
9 310*80     Teak           1271                       89000                     11,303,000.00
__ _  =   =   _11,303,000.00
-      .                 =    =    =                                                                 19,984,196.84



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
OBUASI
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES             |TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L       M       S     SDLG           P               P
1 200X100   OPA        28 .                 125000
85'100     Cocoa    120                    23000
= 85*100      Coffee     59                   23000
96*50      Or        25                    70000
= ________ OPA       51                   125000
= 200*100     Co        276                    23000
78*100     Or        40                    70000
Ba         47                    8000
115*60     Cocoa     96                    23000
115*60     OPA       14                   125000
Ma          1                    70000
= ________ AVP        4                    70000
_______ _______         ~~1,144,016,263.33 ________



l
i 



ANNEX D:
VALUATION FOR
STRUCTURES
To protect those people awarded compensation, the following lists contain
only the consecutive case numbers, and not the names, of those people. Full
lists of those awarded compensation are available at VRA in Accra and in the
World Bank in Washington for those who can demonstrate a need to have
access to the names of the people involved.
2 1



I
I



LAND                                                STRUCTURE
DESCRIPTION OF      DIMENSION                     TOTAL
NO.   VILLAGE          PLOT SIZE COMPENSATION    STRUCTURES         (EACH)       1 PER SQ. FT  COMPENSATION
A     ABEKAKROM                         
Farm hut. Thath roof.  10' -0" x 8' - 0"
1                        0.23      500,000.00 Wattle and daub                     12,000.00     1,720,000.00
OPPONSO
Thatch roof. Swish  12'-4" x 13'-7"
1                        0.23       500,000.00 building.         12'-4" x 13'-2"  12,000.00     8,300,000.00
split bamboo roof wattle 13'-O" x 13'-O"
2                        0.16       250,000.00 and daub                           12,000.00     2,400,000.00
Split bamboo roof   27'-0" x 13'-0"
wooden structure (corn
3                        0.23       500,000.00 mill)                              20,000.00     7,000,000.00
Sundried bricks Thatched 13'-0" x 11 '-0"
roof.               12'-0" x 6'-0"
4                        0.23       500,000.00                                    22,000.00     6,700,000.00
37'-9"x11'-0"
37'-9" x 13'-0"
Landcrete bricks. Rusted 40'-0" x 10'-6"
5                         0.6     1,400,000.00 corrugated iron sheet.  18'-6" x 13'0"  30,000.00  41,000,000.00
Swish building thatch  24'-0" x 8'-0" 3'
6                        0.23       500,000.00 roof.             0" x 24'-0"      22,000.00     6,300,000.00
C     MBRIAM                                                                      _            _     _=
Rusty corrugated iron  19'-0" x 10'-0"
1                        0.23         500,000 sheets wattle & daub                14,000.00     4,400,000.00
D     DENYASE
Thatch roof wattle & daub 1 0'-62 X 1 0'-0"
10'-0" X 9'-6"
1                        0.23         500,000                    10'-0" X 5'-0"   14,000.00     3,700,000.00
Thatch roof wattle & daub 1 0'-0" X 7'-3" 8'
2                        0.23         500,000                    0" X 7"-3"       12,000.00     2,900,000.00



Thatch roof wattle & daub 13'-0" X 9'-0"
13'-0"X4'-6"
3 __       _             0.23          500,000                     11'-0" X 9'-0"    12,000.00      3,800,000.00
Thatch roof wattle & daub 9'-6" X 9'-0"
10.- 01X 91-01
1 1 -9' X 9-6"
9'-6" X 4'-6"
10-0 " X 4'-6"
4                        0.23          500,000                                       14,000.00      6,800,000.00
Thatch roof wattle & daub 16'-0" X 10'-0"
16'-0" X 4'-6"
12'-0" X 8'-3"
5                        0.23          500,000                     11'-0" X 8'-0"    14,000.00      6,400,000.00
Rusty iron sheet roof  2(11 -6" x 9'-92)
wattle & daub        11 -3 x 9 6
23'-0" x 4'-0"
6                        0.23          500,000                     11 -3 x 3'-6"     12,000.00      5,800,000.00
E     ABOAGYEKROM                                 .
Thatch roof wattle, farm  9'-3" x 21'-3"
1                        0.23          500,000 hut wattle & daub                     12,000.00      2,900,000.00
F     TWEAPEASE
Thatch roof wattle, mass 11 '-6" x 15'-6"
swish/ wattle & daub  11'-O" x 13'-00"
1                        0.23          500,000                            __                        2,700,000.00
old rusty iron sheet mass 1 1'-6" x 15'-0"
swish                1 0'-0" x 1 5'-0"
2                         0.23         500,000                     12'-3" x 9'-0"                   6,120,000.00
corrugated iron sheet  14'-3" x 1'-3"
landcrete            16'-0 x 11'-3"
15'-9" x 1 '-6"
15'-6" x 4'-0"
31                       0.23          500,000                     15'-0 x 41-0"     30,000.00     20,878,000.00



G     ESAASE
Old rusty iron sheets  2(12'-0" x 11'-0")
sundired bricks      26'-0 x 4 -0
1                         0.23       500,000.00                                        30,000.00     12,700,000.00
Old rusty iron sheets  3(23-0" x 18'-0")
sundried bricks       10'-0" x 18'-0"
80'-0" x 4'-O"
21                         0.7      1,800,000.00 _                   _                 40,000.00     68,000 ,000.00
NB    10% of the estimated replacement cost which was classified as disturbance was added to the value
10% DISTURBANCE ADDED TO VALUE OF STRUCTURES
TOTAL COMP = . LAND COMP
.+ HOUSE COMP
.+ 10% HOUSE COMP



I
Ii
i
I
Ii
i
i
I
I              I



ANNEX E:
UNIT VALUE RATES,
FOR CROPS AND ECONOMIC TREES
22



i
i
i
i
I
I
I                                                                                                                                         I
I



A~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ....
or  lta j Jt' n ....... R.c[.ub.ic r v cof C ,N                    Y.
7-Ide/honl Ao. 773218/773221                        nat   .JAN.(.ARY 2002
NEW RATES FOR CROPS COMPENSATION
I submit herewith the new crop rates approved by the Board and contained in
the schedule attached hereto for your records and adoption in crop valuation
exercises.
The rates for the annual-.and semi-annual crops are based on the national- --
average cost of production estimates on an acre basis complied by the Ministry
of FRood and Agriculture and analysed by the Board.
The rates for the perennial crops were obtained by the use of the Investment
MetLlod of valuation.
You are however to ensure tLlat the rates are applied strictly.to.acquisitions
which commenced at the beginning of the year 2002 and also in situations
where the date of valuatiorn and acquisition are not later than 1St January 2002.
Henceforlth, Regional Valuers Cind other agencies whose crop valuation repor-ts
are vetted by the Boa-d are to ensure that such valuation reports are
accompanied with thle block plaiins of tLle affecLed farnms by clearly, delineating Llte
boundaries.
( lhese rates are confidentiail to the Board arid must not under any circumstances
be given out to unauthor-ised people or organisatiorns without clearance frormi the
!Head Office.
for: EX CUTIVE SECRETARY
(N. B FFOUR-DANQUAH)
DISTRIBUTION
ALL REGIONAL VALUERS
-  ALL'PROFESSCNA7TECHNICAL STAFF-.
GHANA HIGHWAY -AUTHORITY                           7
VOLTA RIVER-AUTHObRITY
a



.1 
PERENtNIALS
1. -  TreClco0(pe   9,200 00         13,800.00        18,400.00      23,000.00
trecs (per
acrc)
Oil Palm (60  50,000.00       75.000.00        100,000.00     0125,000 00
2.     Trees Per
Acre) Agric
Per Tree
2a.    Oil Palm     '32,000.00       48,000.00         64,000.00      80,000.00
Coconut (Per
3.     Tree)        40,000.00       60,000.00         80,000.00       100,000.00
Orange,
4 .    Avocano      28,000.00       42,000.00        056,000.00       (70,000.00)
Avocado
Pear (Per
Tree
J.     Cashew
034.000)()t)     ',1000. 00      '/600.0 0       385,000.0U
6.     Sheabutter'
28,000.00       42,000.00         56,000.00       70.000.00
7.    Dawadawa'
8.     Apple,Guava  026,000.00       039,000.00         52,000.00      65,000.00
& Black      16,000.00       p24,0000.00        32,000.00       40,000.00
Berry
Pawpaw
9.    P(wruit        2,400.00        3,600.00          4,800.00       6000.00
Bearng)
A -  X   ;  2



-C
2 .   LA N ;;DC t'-f .  A0, ooo o oo             . -
r-1 v-,, C
3.    SUNDRIES                        25,000.00
4.   PIASS S.lISH                      22,000.00
5.-   A.'ATL1  A N DDA UB              10,000e00
6, 0.i~C OOI .'7,t'TRUC i'U- E  _   -  -15--, 0;0Oo
LAND VALUiiTI0iR F3oARD SEK(ON!_DI  R Arl".i1 _
1. *  LAND)CRE^TF RO0FED VITH iATCH
BAIMIBOO                         25,500.00
LU' UDC,RFTE ROOFED WIBi C0.I.S. 3S.0,0.00
2.    S#WISII ROOFED WITH BAM4BOO     *16,500.oo  ;f - -9
-S.IalH 20OFED WITtl -CI.S.   22?    0. 00  , !
l -3. --WATTLE A' DU DAUB ROOFED A4WI---
BAMIBOO                          12,000.00  CiCs     ('
WAT'IALE A1.D DAUB ROO-PED W I'IT3
0 C.1.5.                         14,000.00        cc
SURVE,Y                                           C.
DATE 30/05/01 '.WOODEN STRUCTUE       20,000.00  Gt-  '- <
L:XND VALLUATION BOARD-URBAN RATRS
FIRSTot CL'tSS  2ND CrsxSS  .RD Cl.,;SS
SA 'DCRE'PE               $100, 000.00  $80,000.00   60, 000.00
, .       ~~~p.':.s.
TOGUE & GROVE(T&G)       P25,0O.00 p.f.s.
WOODEN STRUCTURE          $29,000,00   "
SW!ISIJ ROOF WITH C.I.S.  $22,000.00   "
LANDCRETE ROOF WITH
C.I.S.                    $50,000.00   "         -
,S . AIR,@R,?SID-GE',,,, ,0., .00, 0 0.OO ---pe'r   -Plot  -. '-
-L  -   -" e--e- 'Ir   o   ,g      ~
t .5  t aS   d    t -



I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                              i
I                                                      I
i
i
I
i



ANNEX F:
NEGOTIATED COMPENSATION SUMS
FOR COMMUNITY
SHRINES AND CEMETERIES
23



I                                       I
I
i
i
i
i
i
i
I
i
i
i
i



BOGOSU
SHRINE                                         _
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST       TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                3                 300,000               900,000
Beer                 1 carton           48,000                48,000
Schnapps             2 carton          300,000               300,000
Fanta                3 crete            26,000                26;000
Cocks                                   20,000                60,000
Building                                                   4,000,000
Cash                                                       3,000,000
Total                                                      8,334,000
AYENSUKROM
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST       TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                2                 300,000               600,000
Minerals             4 cretes           26,000               104,000
Schnapps             1 carton          300,000               300,000
Local Gin            5 Gallons          42,000               210,000
Red calico           1 piece           150,000               150,000
Cash                                                       6,000,000
Total                                                      7,364,000
PEMESU
SHRINE
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST       TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                1 No.             300,000               300,000
Schnapps             1 Carton          300,000               300,000
______________________   _________  ___________ __           600,000
DANYASE
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST       TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                        6         300,000             1,800,000
Minerals             2 crates           26,000                52,000
Schapps              1 carton          300,000               300,000
Local Gin            2 gallons          42,000                84,000
Cash                                                       4,000,00
6,236,000



ASIKUMA
SHRINE
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                       4         300,000              1,200,000
Schapps              2 cartons        300,000               600,000
Yams                 2 tubers          10,000                20,000
Local eggs           1 crate           10,000                10,000
Palm oil             2 bottles          6,000                12,000
Groundnuts           2 cups             7,000                14,000
Bread                2 cups             3,000                 6,000
Tiger Nuts                              4,500                 9,000
Sugar                                   2,500                 5,00a
Cash                                                       3,000,000
4,876,000
TWIFO
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep
Schnapps
Local Gin
Cash compensation                            costing 2,620,000
BABIANEHA
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                2 No.
Scchapps local
Cash compensation                                          2,500,000



RESETTLEMENT AUDIT
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
GHANA THERMAL POWER (P-VII) PROJECT
(P000296)
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Accra, Ghana
September 2003






RESETTLEMENT AUDIT
A. Inventory of Assets Lost ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  1
1.    VRA Procedure for Inventorying Assets Lost.                    1
2.    Enumeration  of Plots  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
3.    Accuracy of Count of Physical Assets (Inventory) on Plots.     2
4.     Correspondence Between Physical Inventory at Field Inspection
And the Legal Inventory of Affected Assets (Form F) .. . . . . . . .  3
5.    Determining the Number of Project-Affected People.             4
B. Valuation Process   .    ..................... ..                    6
1.    VRA Procedure ...... .      .  .  .   .      -                 6
2.    Valuation Rates.7. .................... 7
3.    Compensation Estimates ....................... 9
C. Transparency and Negotiation of Compensation Packages . . . . . . . . . . 10
D. Payment of Compensation .........................                   10
1.    VRA Procedure .........................                       10
2.     Compensation Payment to Date  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
E. Project Monitoring .........................                        12
1.    Project Monitoring .........................                  12
2.     Monitoring Impacts on Vulnerable Populations ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 13
F. Public Information and Participation ....... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 13
G. Grievance Procedures ............................ . 14
H. Actions to Complete Resettlement Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
1. Establish Local-level Grievance Committees ... ....... .   .  .   . 15
2. Distribute Unit Price Lists and
Provide Itemized Compensation Offers .    ............... . 15
3. Verify Compensation Amounts, and
Update to Current Rates     ............... . 16
4. Open Local Bank Accounts       .............. . 16
5. Pay Balance of Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
6. Implement a Procedure for Systematic Identification of
Construction Damages . ....... .      ............. .... 17
7. Administer a Vulnerability Questionnaire to PAPs at the time of
the second compensation payment .................. . 17
8. Implement Land Valuation Process that Facilitates Compensation  17



i
i
i
Ii
i
I



TABLES
Table 1: Number of Project Affected Persons, by Type of Impact and Region . . 5
Table 2: Community Property Affected, by Type of Impact and Region . . . . . .6
Table 3: Total Compensation Due, Payments to Date
and Amounts Outstanding ...................... . 12
Table 4:  Matrix of Recommended Actions, by Stage in Project Cycle . . . . . . 18
ANNEXES
Annex A: Independently Negotiated Unit Price List for
Annual Crops and Economic Trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tab A
Annex B: Compensation Payments, Total Due, Amount Paid and
Amount Outstanding, by Village and PAP,
for Crops and Structures ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . Tab B
Annex C: Compensation Payments, by Village
For Shrines and Cemeteries ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  Tab C
Annex D: Questionnaire to Determine Vulnerability of
Project Affected Persons ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  Tab D
Annex E: Grievance Registration Form ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . Tab E



i
i
i
I
i
i
i
i
I
I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



RESETTLEMENT AUDIT
The Prestea-Obuasi Transmission Line (POTL) project built a 114.6 km long 161 kV
high-voltage transmission line with a 30 m right-of-way (ROW) adjacent and parallel to
an existing line. The existing substations in both Prestea and Obuasi were extended
onto land already available to the Volta River Authority (VRA), the implementing agency,
in order to accommodate the additional facilities.
POTL therefore entailed a relatively limited resettlement operation in that narrow strips
of land were required, permanently or temporarily, for access roads (where these were
not available), pylons, the wayleave (or ROW), and staging areas for building the pylons
and stringing the wire. Because POTL was routed away from population centers, most
damage involved cropland along the ROW. A total of 654 agricultural plots with annual
crops, economic tree crops, or both were affected; these plots were owned or farmed by
650 people. In addition, 19 residences, one school, and three shrines had to be moved
out of the ROW, and the tall trees in four cemeteries were cut down. All relocation took
place within the project-affected persons' (PAPs) own communities; there was no distant
relocation. Moreover, the limited land taking in each case obviated most need for
reconstitution of PAP livelihoods and standards of living, which occurs most commonly in
large-scale resettlement operations such as relocation from reservoirs.
In view of the limited impact of the POTL resettlement operation, this audit deals
primarily with the compensation process. The audit reviewed the inventory of assets
lost, the valuation rates, the procedure for determining compensation, negotiation of
compensation amounts, and the payment of compensation. Nonetheless, the audit also
examines several wider issues, such the nature and extent of public participation,
grievance procedures, socio-economic baseline information, special assistance to
vulnerable populations, and project monitoring.
A.    INVENTORY OF ASSETS LOST
1.    VRA Procedure for Inventorying Assets Lost
The VRA Real Estate Department procedural manual specifies that 'before any work
commences on the required Estate, the Land Valuation Board [LVBJ or any recognized
valuer shall be requested, in accordance with statutory requirement and as far as
practicable: a) to conduct a site inspection for the purpose of referencing and assessing
all properties (including crops and valuable trees) to be affected; [and] b) to submit to the
Chief Executive for the attention of Director (RED) recommendations on compensation
to be paid for acquisition" (VRA/RE Procedural Manual [excerpts], Section D).
2.    Enumeration of Plots
Once the intent to acquire land has been publicized, VRA/RE informs local notables
about the intention to conduct a site inspection in order to inventory and assess all
properties affected by the investment, and subsequently informs those notables when
the site inspection will take place. On the day scheduled, the concerned villagers or
townsmen are convened, and they walk the line along with the VRA and LVB
representatives. The PAPs' role in the site inspection is to certify ownership or



occupation of each cultivated or habited plot, and to informally certify the measurement
of the plots, the inventory of crops and economic trees on each plot and the description
of any structures thereon. Local participation in the site inspection of assets to be taken
greatly facilitates compilation of a complete and accurate inventory in each locality.
This audit verified the completeness of the site inspection through several indirect
measures since it is impossible to ascertain the accuracy of the field counts once the
right-of-way has been cleared, even in part.
* First, VRA and LVB notebooks for the Ashanti Region were compared for
internal consistency. This comparison examined the entries in each
notebook for the town of Tweapease, which has 56 PAPs (equivalent to a
10 percent sample). The two sets of field notebooks, which are kept
independently, were fully consistent, with the exception of one
transcription error (pawpaw, which is coded as 'PA,' being recorded in
recopying as bananas, which is coded as 'BA').
* Second, the field notebooks were compared to the topological map
supplied by the Engineering Department. This map indicates the length
and use of each affected property. Since the field inspection is done from
one end of the line to the other, the entries in the field notebook should
accord directly with the notations on the topological map, as is indeed the
case.
* Third, during field visits to the affected villages, no PAP indicated that he
or she had been overlooked during the site inspection, even though there
may have been disputes about the precise number and type of economic
trees on a plot. Also during the field visits, no chief or other local notable
interviewed recalled any instance of a plot having been omitted from the
original inventory.
In other words, internal consistency of field notebooks and other project documentation,
along with the lack of complaints by PAPs and local opinion leaders about omission from
the original counts, attest to the accuracy of the identification and measurement of
affected plots.
3.    Accuracy of Count of Physical Assets (Inventory) on Plots
To judge from the field notebooks and the records of complaints maintained by VRA/RE,
the count of physical assets on each plot is generally accurate, considering conditions at
the time of the field inspection.
For plots with structures, the procedure is simple and accurate. The plot and exterior
dimensions of the buildings are measured by tape and recorded in the field notebook. In
addition, the enumerator notes the construction materials of each structure (walls, roof,
windows and doors). Significantly, there are no complaints about the record taken for
structures. although the villagers in Esaase would like a better, 'modern' school to
replace what they now have, an old three-room, mud-brick structure with corrugated iron
roof.
There is also no difficulty in enumerating cemeteries and shrines. With cemeteries,
VRA/RE ensures that pylons are sited outside the cemetery area, so that the only
2



question is the cutting of tall trees, which requires ritual propitiation. (Village cemeteries
are basically natural areas where villagers bury their dead. There are usually no
tombstones, and the only maker of a tomb is a slight indentation in the earth at one end
of the internment.) Similarly with shrines, the location is noted, and the community
organizes its relocation outside of the right-of-way, with the requisite propitiation,
because shrines should be in secluded locations.
The procedure for estimating field crops is also straighfforward. For annual crops, the
cultivated area is measured by tape, and the area to be taken is multiplied by a standard
yield and crop value provided by the Ministry of Agriculture to LVB. There are, therefore,
no complaints about the estimates for areas planted in annual crops.
By contrast, counts of economic trees encounter two types of difficulty. In the simpler
case, one or another economic tree, usually a citrus or mango tree is overlooked during
the field inspection. In these cases, the landowner can call the attention of the project
officers to the oversight, and it will be corrected. During the field visits, no farmer
mentioned a continuing grievance about overlooked assets of this type.
In the second case, the procedure for determining the number of economic trees can
create variance in the tree count when the count is estimated from the area measured,
as is the usual procedure. In such instances, the number of trees is calculated by
dividing the area planted by a presumed planting density (or spacing distance). The
difficulty here is planting densities can vary appreciably, and there are large differences
between the recommended agronomic density and the usual tree spacing in farmers'
fields, where more than the recommended number of trees is usually cultivated. The
official spacing of 29 feet between coconut trees, for example, results in a count of 60
trees per acre, whereas the usual density per acre on farmers fields is more like 80-90
trees because plant spacing is only 20 feet or so (and variable at that). The difference
between recommended and actual tree densities can confuse not only farmers who
believe they should be compensated for more trees than the official inventory estimates,
it can also - and does - underlie differences in the field and official inventories of
economic trees when the agencies involved do not use standard planting densities
(below, Section A-4).
4.    Correspondence Between Physical Inventory at Field Inspection and
the Legal Inventory of Affected Assets (Form F)
The audit found some discrepancy between the original asset inventory at the time of the
field inspection and the legal inventory of assets to be compensated, which is recorded
on the government Form F issued by LVB to PAPs.
This issue is important because the legally required Form F is the official registry of
assets lost and thus the official basis for calculating compensation. The asset count at
the site inspection is recorded on the legally required Form F, which is issued by the
LVB, usually at the time of the site inspection. (In the instance of POTL, LVB issued the
Form F to PAPs at a later time, once the physical asset inventory had been reconciled
with VRA.) The presumption is that the assets recorded on the Form F will be identical
to the list of assets recorded in the original asset inventory during the field inspection.
3



Such would appear not to be the case, however. The VRA field inspection notebooks
were compared with the VRA summary sheets, and found to be in accord.
Subsequently, the VRA summary sheet was compared with the LVB field inspection
notebook and summary sheet for Ashanti region. The two inventores of physical assets
were also found to be in accord (apart from one copying error, already mentioned). It
was therefore expected that the Form F, which is the legal inventory of lost assets
provided to each PAP, would be identical to the physical inventory recorded in the field
notebooks and summary sheets.
This expectation did not hold when these documents were compared in one village: 9 of
the 18 Form Fs differed from the VRA summary inventory sheet that had earlier been
verified with the LVB records. The discrepancies varied between 2 and 20 trees.
Although the rate of discrepancy between the original asset inventory and the Form F
was much lower in the other villages visited, there were differences noted in the field in
one other village.
Because in a few cases the legal inventory of assets affected, as listed on Form F, did
not accord exactly with the original physical inventory agreed upon by VRA and LVB,
VRA reviewed every Form F with the original asset count done at the time of the field
inspection in order to determine the number of variant cases. This review of the
documentary records indicated that in some 10 percent of the cases in Ashanti Region
and some 2 percent of the cases in Western and Central Regions the legal inventory
recorded on Form F varied from the original asset inventory taken during the field
inspection.
Significantly, the vast majority of such discrepancies concerned the count of economic
trees when the number was estimated from the area cultivated. It is, therefore,
presumed that the difference arose because of the use of different tree densities in the
calculation. This occurred because VRA and LVB did not agree in advance on a
standard density, because VRA and LVB enumerators calculated the tree counts after
the enumerators had reconciled their field notebooks (which simply noted the area
planted), and because VRA certified but did not verify the Form Fs at the time they were
issued by LVB to PAPs.
In this situation, VRAIRE has implemented the optimal solution, that is, to accept the
higher of the two asset counts as the basis for computing compensation. When the
Form F recorded more trees than the original asset inventory in the field, the Form F was
taken as the basis for compensation calculation. If, however, the original asset inventory
in the field recorded more trees than the Form F, the original count was taken as the.
basis for the compensation calculation. In this way, the uncertainty created by
discrepancies in the official registry and field records is always resolved to the benefit of
the affected person.
5. Determining the Number of Project-affected People
The inventory of plots differs slightly from an enumeration of affected people because of
ownership issues. One plot may have two or more owners; one person may have two or
more plots; any plot may be owned by one person but cultivated by another. For this
reason, ownership must be recorded at the time of the plot enumeration and asset
4



inventory, and the census of project-affected people determined on the basis of
ownership and cultivation rights.
In the POTL project, 10 plots have two customary owners, usually a husband and wife
with equal rights in the land. In such cases, the asset inventory is divided equally
between the two owners. Sixteen people had two plots along the ROW; one person
had three plots. In these cases, the individual receives full payment for all assets on all
plots. Finally, four plots are farmed on a sharecrop basis. In these cases, in accord
with customary tenure, the share of annual crops is divided equally between owner and
sharecropper while compensation for any economic trees not planted by the
sharecropper is allocated to the owner.
Taking these adjustments into account, the enumeration of project affected people
counts 650 people affected by crop loss and 19 people by loss of residence, for a total of
669 affected persons. (In no instance was a business other than a farm affected.) In
addition, some community property was affected by the transmission line: one school,
three shrines and four cemeteries.
Table 1 presents the enumeration of project impacts on people, by type of impact and
region. Table 2 presents the impact of the project on community property by type of
property and region.
Table 1:
Number of Project Affected Persons,
By Type of Impact and Region
Western        Central       Ashanti         Total
Region         Region        Region
Field Crops and
Economic           284            139            227           650
Trees
Houses              7              8             4              19
Total          291            147           231            669
5



Table 2:
Community Property Affected by the POTL Project,
By Type of Impact and Region
Western        Central       Ashanti        Totai
Region        Region         Region
School              0              1             0             1
Shrines             2              1             0             3
Cemeteries          1             3              0             4
Total       3             5             0              8
B.    VALUATION PROCESS
1.    VRA Procedure
The VRA/RE Procedural Manual (Section C [excerpts]) states that:
ii.  "All valuation cases shall be assigned by the Director, Real Estate
Department or his Manager, to the Estate Officer or an external
valuer. Assignments must include a clear statement on the purpose
for the valuation.
iii.  The Estate Officer shall carry out the valuation in accordance with the
principle and practice of the profession and guidelines approved
within the Real Estate Department.
iv.   The Estate Officer shall, as part of the valuation assignment, produce
and submit to the manager for review a valuation report produced in
accordance with the approved format
v.    The Manager shall review the report to ensure that the content meets
the required standard.
- In carrying out the review, any statutory requirement to consider
the opinion of a designated government department shall be
complied with.
- Where consultation with a government department is not
obligatory, it is still expedient, for cases of large monetary
values, to obtain a second professional opinion on the report.
- The review shall have due regard to the approved check list for i
review of valuation reports."
6



2.    VALUATION RATES
VRA uses the unit rates established by the Land Valuation Board, amended as
appropriate, to value lost property. LVB values land, structures, and crops -- both
annual crops and economic trees -- separately.
With regard to land, LVB consults with the Land Commission on recent land sales of
titled properties. This approach is most useful in urban areas. In rural areas, where land
is held under customary tenure, LVB investigates the current market price of land, and
verifies this price information with indirect measures, such as informal payments to
chiefs at the time of the land transfer. (See Annex D of the RAP for examples.)
For structures, LVB determines replacement cost based on the current price of building
materials. In this method, calculating the amount of material necessary for structures of
different types provides a unit value per square foot that is multiplied by the area of the
structure to be taken in order to establish the value of each structure. In rural areas,
these estimated amounts are verified with local building costs. (See Annex D of the
RAP for examples in the POTL project.)
For community property such as cemeteries and shrines, VRA/RE uses a quite different
approach because people have great emotional attachment these properties. In
recognition of the different qualitative nature of these properties, which transcends mere
compensation, VRA/RE insists, first, that no graves be disturbed, that is, pylons are sited
outside of the cemetery, so that only tall trees need to be cut. Second, VRA/RE consults
with the community leaders in order to determine what support is necessary in order to
perform the necessary propitiatory rites. In these instances, VRA/RE provides whatever
assistance is suggested by the community. (See Annex F of the RAP for examples in
the POTL project.
For crops and trees LVB uses one of two methods to calculate values. For large estates
and commercial plantations, LVB uses the 'investment method,' which essentially tailors
the compensation to the productive life of the assets to be taken in that estates with
younger productive trees receive proportionately more than estates with older productive
trees. For small-hold takings, LVB uses a tree count and multiplies the count by a
standard unit value for that type of tree. In both methods, calculation of the unit value is
based on production techniques, yield and farmgate price information collected
regionally by the Ministry of Agriculture. (See Annexes C of the RAP for the list of
assets lost and compensation calculations for each PAP, and Annex E for the unit price
list.)
LVB takes two other considerations into account in determining compensation. An
amount of up to 10 percent may be added to cover legitimate costs incurred by the PAP
in locating replacement land or structures (the disturbance allowance). In addition, LVB
adds an average of 20 percent to crop and tree values in order to account for inflationary
price increases in the year or two that may pass between the time of the site inspection
and issuance of the LVB compensation reports.
LVB maintains that its valuation rates are current and represent actual market price at
the time of payment. VRA concurs in this view that the Authority uses realistic rates in
computing actual compensation amounts. If at the time of payment, the current LVB
7



Authority to the beneficiaries," and " compensations shall be paid within reasonable time
from the date of the acquisition of the property" (Section C-8; excerpts).
Payment can be made to representatives of the claimant under specified circumstances.
"Where payment is to be made to persons acting on behalf of the claimant, such persons
should produce an authentic authority note plus three passport size pictures of himself
duly endorsed." Also, "the successor of a deceased claimant shall, in addition to the
appropriate papers, support proof that his claim has been established in a law court"
(Section C-10; excerpts).
Finally (Section D), "payment of compensation shall be by cheque made direct to the
beneficiary or his/her accredited representative, only upon submission of a claim."
"Payment of compensation entitlements is usually done at the local level:
a)    A convenient town or village is selected as the pay center on the basis of
its centrality.
b)    To facilitate identification of claimants, a team comprising a
representative of the Corporate Estate Manager, Opinion Leader in the
village, elder/chief may be present at the time of payment.
C)    Paying officer shall ensure that the claimant who is on the pay-roll
presents the appropriate documents (where applicable Standard Form F,
title documents, etc). Both the original of the document and the duplicate
held by the paying officer must tally."
2.  Compensation Payment to Date
VRA usually makes one payment in the full amount due to liquidate its obligations to the
PAPs. In the POTL project, however, because the LVB estimates were unduly late and
because villagers were agitating for payment, VRA made partial payment of half the
estimated amount for crops and structures, with the intention of paying the remaining
amount once the LVB compensation valuations were available. The payment for other
community property, shrines and cemeteries, has been effected in full.
The partial payment for crops and structures was made by VRA to each PAP at a
meeting in each of the affected villages. The VRAIRE representative provided the list of
affected assets and the global compensation amount to the PAP (or reads it to the PAP
if illiterate) to ensure that there is continued agreement on the compensation sum. VRA
then delivered a cheque drawn in that sum on the corporate account to the PAP, who
signs the relevant papers signifying receipt of compensation in part.
Most but not all PAPs received the first, partial payment. In particular instances,
payment was not effected because the PAP was not available and had not nominated a
representative to receive the payment for him or her. In these instances, the PAP will
receive the full amount of compensation when the accounts are paid in full, which is
estimated to be by October of this year. The statement of compensation accounts at
present is given in Table 3. Annex B provides the list of compensation payments to
date, by village, PAP and type of impact.



Table 3:
Total Compensation Due, Payments to Date and Amounts Outstanding (Crops)
(in Cedi 000)
Total Compensation   Amount Paid        Amount
Due                             Outstanding
Ashanti Region            1,173,590          545,980           627,611
Central Region              594,246          288,756           305,490
Western Region            1,087,235          486,721           600,514
Total         2,855,070         1,321,457         1,533,615
In the instance of the community school, VRA/RE paid half the estimated compensation
amount to the community, with promises to complete payment once the community start
rebuilding the structure. To assist in that endeavor, VRA requested its contractor to
clear and level a nearby plot that the community identified as available for the new
school building. While the plot has been cleared, the community is waiting for final
payment before beginning to construct the new facility.
VRA has negotiated with the communities affected to conduct the propitiatory rites
required to allow felling of tall trees within the right-of-way over cemeteries and to
relocate shrines out of the ROW. The negotiated compensation amounts are provided in
Annex C.
Payment by cheque drawn on the corporate account may cause difficulties for PAPs
who do not have an account in that bank locally. During the field visit to affected
villages, various PAPs independently raised the issue of difficulties in cashing checks.
VRA has also received a written complaint that several people, including a chief, have
been unable to cash their check.
VRA has agreed to open corporate accounts at local banks in the project area in order to
eliminate the difficulties PAPs encountered in cashing their initial payments. (The use 6f
local accounts parallels the practice of some mining companies.)
E.    PROJECT MONITORING
1.    Project Monitoring
Projects with relatively limited resettlement impacts commonly institute an in-house
monitoring system within the project agency. In the case of POTL, VRA relies upon its
12



staff in the Real Estate and Engineering Departments to keep track of land acquisition,
compensation, and grievances. VRA/RE maintains a set of administrative records on
asset inventories, payment receipts, and complaints. Both VRAIRE and Engineering
Department representatives hear complaints on an informal basis and report
administratively on their resolution.
2.    Monitoring Impacts on Vulnerable Populations
Projects that take land, no matter how limited the amounts, impact different people
differently. The elderly, women without access to labor, the landless and near-landless
all may find it more difficult to recover from land-taking than other people in that they
may be unable to find alternative land, rebuild their homes, or open new fields. For
these reasons, it is incumbent on projects that must take land to assess the impact of
their actions on different segments of the population affected.
Because POTL recorded little socio-economic information on the affected population
after the EIA social assessment, it is difficult to assess the actual impact of project
activities on vulnerable populations. For this reason, VRA/RE has agreed to administer
a brief socio-economic questionnaire to all PAPs at the time of the final compensation
payment. The questionnaire will cover basic dimensions of vulnerability (age, number of
dependents), economic resources (primary occupation, other farms), and PAPs ability to
date to replace their lost land. (The draft questionnaire appears in Annex D.) Using this
information, VRAIRE will determine whether any PAPs require additional assistance to
restore their incomes to the pre-project level. VRA/RE will submit this report, along with
the nature of the additional assistance proposed, to the World Bank for its consideration.
F.    PUBLIC INFORMATION AND PARTICIPATION
VRA and its contractors inform the local populations on the POTL about each of the
various steps of the project.
After official notification, VRA engineerng surveyors contact local officials in each
locality to inform them of the project and to request permission to enter village lands for
the topographical survey of the line.
Subsequently, VRA enumerators contact village leaders in the communities along the
line, including Chiefs and Elders, District Chief Executives, District Assemblymen, Unit
and Town Development Committee members, in order to solicit their support and
cooperation for the study. In the POTL project, appointments were made with all
communities except Prestea and Bogoso, which presented particular issues, in order to
collect relevant information about the communities and the individuals affected for the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA).
Finally, VRA/RE representatives contact the notables in each locality to organize
community meetings with the PAPs. On these occasions, the VRA and LVB
representatives walk the transmission line with the PAPs in order to identify ownership of
each structure and agricultural plot affected and, together, to inventory the structures
and crops for valuation.
13



Once the inventory of physical assets affected has been compiled and checked by
VRAIRE and LVB. the agency representatives attend a meeting in each locality to verify
and agree upon the extent of impact on each PAP. At these meetings, the VRA
representative reads the inventory of affected assets to each PAP who then signs to
indicate his or her agreement with the inventory. In the instance of a disputed inventory,
the PAP may request a re-assessment or may, in exceptional instances, commission an
independent assessment.
In sum, public information and participation in the POTL project could be broadened.
Specifically, unit price information is not publicly divulged to PAPs although the practical
realities of land acquisition obligate the Authority to provide the information informally.
To redress this situation in the current context, VRA has agreed to disseminate the unit
price list for crops to PAPs and to provide an itemized breakdown of the compensation
package at the time of final payment.
G.     GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
Presently, disputes over compensation and resettlement measures may be raised by
PAPs informally with local notables or VRA staff or, failing resolution at the informal
community level, formally with the Commission for Human Rights and Administrative
Justice (CHRAJ) and, ultimately, the courts.
Most questions have involved questions over the physical inventory counts. As has
been discussed above, although the field counts are generally accurate, some economic
assets may be overlooked during the field inspection. Such oversights are typically
brought to the attention of the VRA staff, either the representative from the Real Estate
Department or from the project staff, and the VRA representative verifies the validity of
the complaint, and corrects the official count accordingly. In the POTL project, disputes
over unit prices have not arisen, in large part because PAPs have not been provided the
unit price liSt.3
To systematize its current informal process of grievance redress, VRA/RE has agreed to
institute local-level grievance committees that can attempt to resolve the issues, and, if
unsuccessful, will forward the grievance to VRA for resolution. The local-level
committee will consist of: the village chief, the Unit Committee Member (or
Assemblyman), and a representative elected from the PAPs. VRA/RE will provide each
committee a grievance registration form in order to standardize the records, and provide
a tracking system for dispute resolution. (See Annex E for an example of the draft form.)
These committees will be in place in time to register any complaints over the final
compensation payments. The committees will also be responsible for hearing and, if
necessary, forwarding claims for construction damages.
'Sucih disptiles have arisen in otlihe projects, usually whien a tralnsilmissioll line crosses a commercial
planitation. InI SuLCh instanices, the plantation owner engages an independent valuer to asset the value of the
clops alfcted anid submilts the indepenident assessment to VRA for its consideration. (By law, VRA is
obligated to reiibuilrs this cost.) 'I'he majority of such cases center on the age and culLural quality of the
afictedciCOp Averaloge unit prices are usuially acceptable when tie plantation is older.and yields are
declininiig; thSre uLilt priices may be disputed, however, when the planitationi is reaching maturity and yields
aire Increasing. VRIA. In consLiltalloni with the LVB, decides each instance on a case-by-case basis.
14



VRA will maintain a log of complaints at headquarters, with a monthly summary of
complaints outstanding compiled at month's start (new complaints received, complaints
resolved, and complaints not resolved but over three months old). The summary will be
provided monthly to VRA management, who will take up the issues raised in old
complaints (i.e., those in contention for three months or more)
H.    ACTIONS TO COMPLETE RESETTLEMENT OPERATION
The Environmental Impact Assessment inquired into PAP concerns about the POTL
project. While the majority of respondents (60%) expected some crop loss, most (90%)
expected adequate compensation. A quarter of those canvassed expressed a concern
that compensation payment could be delayed (EIA, p. 15). That proportion has today
increased to the totality of the affected population because the transmission line was
built in 2002 and energized this earlier this year while compensation has yet to be
completed.
In this situation, the need is to ensure that final compensation payments are completed
in full as quickly and accurately as possible. The following recommendations are
submitted with the aim of increasing transparency in the resefflement operation,
reducing the number of grievances over compensation amounts and payment
procedures, and thus completing the operation in the shortest period of time possible.
The recommendations are summarized in Table 4, below.
1.    Establish local-level grievance committees to record and resolve
disputes.
The current informal approach to grievance hearing and resolution can usefully be
systematized so that complaints are registered locally and formally forwarded to the
project agency for action within a specified timeline.
Specifically, two local notables, such as the chief and the unit committee leader, as well
as one PAP elected by the group, will be constituted as a local information and
grievance committee. The committee members will register any complaint on a simple
form and forward any complaints to the implementing agency, along with its
recommendation on the disposition of the matter. The project agency will then have a
specified time, two weeks, to investigate and resolve the matter. If negotiation at this
level is unsuccessful, the matter can be referred to Corporate Management for decision,
again within a specified timeframe, i.e., a month. If the dispute still continues, the
aggrieved party has the prerogative of lodging a complaint with the Commission for
Human Rights and Administrative Justice or the courts.
2.    Distribute unit price list for lost assets to PAPs, and provide itemized
compensation offers.
PAPs are unable to discuss their compensation offers knowledgeably when they are
provided only a global compensation figure, without an itemized breakdown and unit
price list. At a minimum, providing this information enables the PAP to verify the
calculation of his or her compensation offer. Perhaps even more importantly, this
information makes it possible for the PAP to understand how the compensation offer
15



was calculated, and helps eliminate confusion and disputes. Providing this information
to PAPs is a basic requirement for PAPs' verification of compensation amounts, dispute
resolution, and good corporate-community relations.
For the present Prestea-Obuasi project, VRA has agreed to -- and will -- distribute the
unit price list and the itemized breakdown of the compensation to each PAP at the time
of final payment. Any disputes about the compensation payment will be registered as
grievances, to be investigated by VRA, as specified in Action 1, above. In the future,
VRA will distribute the unit price list at its first meetings with project-affected persons,
and will provide the itemized breakdown of the compensation at subsequent community
meetings, and as soon as possible after the physical asset inventories have been
completed.
3.    Verify compensation amounts for each PAP for accuracy, and update to
current rates where necessary.
VRA has calculated its compensation offer on the basis of the asset inventory agreed
upon with LVB and the PAPs. The discrepancies found in the field between the VRA
and the LVB asset inventory, on the one hand, and the physical asset inventory on Form
F, on the other, mean that some PAPs may not be paid their righfful amount in
compensation, while others may be overpaid.
VRA has, therefore, compared the asset inventory and Form F for each PAP for
consistency. When the inventory and Form F are not in agreement, the higher of -the
two asset inventories was accepted. That is, if the Form F recorded more assets than
the original field inventory, the Form F was accepted as the basis for calculating the
amount of compensation. If, however, the original inventory listed more affected
property than the corresponding Form F, the official form must be revised to reflect the
actual count of physical assets. VRA/RE has now completed this action.
0     Pay for all land taken permanently, specifically the pylon sites. At present, VRA
pays for land that is occupied by structures (e.g., houses, school) that must be removed
from the ROW. Otherwise, within the right of way, VRA considers that it occupies the
land on a temporary basis only. This view is generally correct in that most access roads
and staging areas are used only during the construction period and low-height
cultivation is permitted under the transmission lines once in operation. However, some
limited amounts of land are acquired permanently, such as the areas where the pylons
are erected and possibly some access roads, and these must be compensated in the
same manner as is land with structures.
4.    Open local bank accounts to eliminate difficulties that PAPs have
encountered in cashing checks.
The difficulties some PAPs encounter in cashing their compensation checks can be
eased if the project authority open an account in its name at a local bank with the
express purpose ot liquidating the compensation claims. In this way, PAPs will be able
to cash their compensation checks without difficulty. The Authority can close the
account after a specified time, such'as six months. (Mining companies in the POTL
project area already use this approach because they maintain local accounts.)
16



5.    Pay the balance of the compensation.
VRA has already paid approximately half of the compensation due to almost all of the
PAPs. Once the compensation amounts are finalized, the unit price lists distributed,
grievance committees formed, and local bank accounts opened, VRA should proceed to'.
effect final and complete payment to all PAPs in as efficient and efficacious a manner as
possible.
6.    Implement a procedure for systematically identifying construction
damages, and institute a procedure for payment of these sums.
The current informal system for registering complaints about construction damage will
be systematized by using the local grievance committee (Action 1, above) to record and
forward complaints to the project authority.
7.    Administer a Vulnerability Questionnaire to PAPs at the time of the
second compensation payment in order to determine whether any
people affected require additional assistance. If so, determine what
additional assistance is required, and how it will be provided.
Because little socio-economic information about the people affected by land acquisition
is collected at the time of the field investigation, it is difficult to determine the number of
people who might require additional assistance and the types of assistance that might be
needed.
Because VRA values its reputation as a good corporate citizen, the Authority has agreed
to administer a Vulnerability Questionnaire (Annex E) to PAPs at the time of the second
compensation payment in order to determine whether any people affected require
additional assistance. If so, the Authority will determine what assistance is required, and
will specify how that assistance will be provided.
In future projects, VRA should undertake the following additional actions:
8.    Implement a land valuation process that facilitates timely compensation
calculation, compensation offers and negotiation, and compensation
payment before construction begins.
By law, VRA is legally required to work through the Land Valuation Board for the
determination of fair compensation. VRA has collaborated closely with LVB -- notifying
its staff when their participation will be required for a physical asset inventory, providing
transport and other facilities as necessary, corroborating the findings of the field
inventory in order to ensure consistency of assessments. LVB, however, is inordinately
slow in providing the official valuations, requiring at least one year and often two to
complete its valuations because all of the work is done by hand. Moreover, LVB staff
may, as happened in the current project, use different assumptions about spacing
densities, which lead to significant differences in asset loss and compensation amounts.
17



In this situation, while VRA must continue to collaborate with LVB, the Authority can also
use complementary techniques in order to expedite the valuation process. For example,
VRA can suggest to project-affected people that they, the PAPs, engage an independent
valuer to assess the extent of each individual's loss. The cost of the independent valuer
will be borne by the Authority, as is, by law, already the case when a PAP disputes
compensation and engages an independent valuer. Whatever the valuer's assessment,
the Authority reimburses the costs incurred by the PAP. The only differences in the
proposed technique is that the Authority would engage independent valuers
systematically and would itself pay the valuers for their work on behalf of the project-
affected people.
Table 4:
Matrix of Recommended Actions,
by Stage in Project Cycle
Stage of Project Cycle             Recommended Action(s)
Project Design              . VRA Engineering Office confers with VRA
Environment Office and VRA Real Estate Office
on proposed line to identify potential
environmental and social issues and, if
necessary, potentially less disruptive routes
. Public consultation in village meetings on
proposed line
. Preliminary field assessment of probable impact,
with particular attention to sensitive lands such as
shrines and cemeteries
. Identify, with villagers, possible alternative routes
Project Implementation,     . Contact local officials to inform about project and
Resettlement:                 to organize public meetings
Physical Asset Inventory  . Hold public meetings to advise affected
communities of project
. Distribute unit price list
. Establish grievance committee
. Distribute grievance registration form and explain
grievance procedure
18



[-roject Implementation,     . Field inventory of assets affected by VRA, LVB,
Resettlement:                  and contracted independent valuers, with affected
Physical Asset Inventory      villagers as at present; preferably, in collaboration
(continued)                   with the Engineering department so blueprints of
line include information of plots and other assets
taken
. (Note: indude areas taken permanently, e.g.,
pylon bases)
. (Note: field notebooks should record basic socio-
economic information, e.g., whether husband or
wife owns and/or occupies plot; whether the
owner or occupier of the plot is present or only a
representative of the owner or occupier)
. Verify tenure status of each affected person
(owner, renter or leasee, occupier of family land)
and record in field notebooks
. Provide each PAP a copy of the asset inventory
for his or her field(s) and assets affected
.  Identify, measure, and record construction
materials of private structures, e.g., residences,
business (Note: for businesses, obtain also an
estimate of monthly profits and monthly wage
expenses)
.  Identify, measure, and record construction
materials of public infrastructure, e.g., schools,
clinics, shrines, cemeteries
. Carry out socio-economic baseline survey of
affected people carried out, e.g., number of
people in household; age, gender, and household
composition; primary and secondary occupations
of all adults; dependence on agriculture. (Note:
may be done at same time as physical asset
inventory.)
. Conduct vulnerability assessment of PAPs to
determine any people who may need special
assistance, e.g., elderly, widows, handicapped.
(See Vulnerability Questionnaire [ Annex D];
Note: may be done at same time as physical
asset inventory.)
Project Implementation,     . Confirm spacing densities for each crop with LVB
Resettlement:               . Confirm currency of existing unit costs for crops,
Compensation Calculation      structures and other assets taken; up-date if not
current
l  Calculate compensation offers; compare with
LVB (if available) and independent valuer
assessments; reconcile any differences
19



| Project Implementation,    * Hold public meeting in each community affected
Resettlement:               . Distribute up-dated unit price list
Compensation Negotiation  . Explain grievance procedure
. Confirm tenure status with each PAP
.  Confirm asset count with each PAP
. Provide itemized breakdown of compensation
offer
. Deliver Form F (legal inventory) or equivalent
. Sign agreement when VRA and PAP agree
. Distribute grievance forms when VRA and PAP
disagree on compensation
. Negotiate disputed compensation amounts
* Compile monthly grievance report for
management's information and action
Project Implementation,     . Open local bank accounts; deposit requisite sum
Resettlement:                 to make all payments
Compensation Payment      . Hold public meeting
* Confirm individual agreements, and effect
payment to PAPs
. Retrieve Form F of those PAPs who are satisfied
with compensation offer
. Distribute grievance form to those PAPs who are
dissatisfied with compensation offer
* Compile monthly grievance report for
management's information and action
. Make payment to appropriate authority for public
infrastructure, e.g., schools, clinics, shrines,
cemeteries
Project Implementation,     . Ascertain through monitoring program that all
Resettlement:                  PAPs have been paid compensation; in cases of
Post-compensation            prolonged dispute, deposit sum in special
account
. Ascertain through monitoring program that all
PAPs who must relocate have found or build
replace housing of equal or better quality
. Ascertain through monitoring program that any
vulnerable PAPs have replaced economic
resources lost, homes or other structures, or both
* Ascertain that all affected public infrastructure
has been replaced
. Assess PAP satisfaction with the operation
Project Implementation,     * Hold public meetings to inform local populations
Infrastructure Construction:  that construction will begin, and distribute
Prior to Construction        information about grievances over construction
damage
20



Project Implementation,     * Record construction damages on form
Infrastructure Construction:  * If construction contractor does not resolve issue
During Construction          on the spot, transmit grievance to VRA/Real
Estate Division within two weeks
. Compile monthly grievance report for
management's information and action
Post-Project                . Assess effectiveness of resettlement measures
for this activity compared to previous
investments, if possible, e.g., number of
grievances, speed of resolution, number of
grievances outstanding at time construction
began; effectiveness of special measures to
assist vulnerable PAPs
. Provide assessment, with recommendations, to
management for their consideration
. Revise Procedural Manual based on project
assessments
21



ANNEX A:
INDEPENDENTLY NEGOTIATED
UNIT PRICE LIST
FOR
ANNUAL CROPS AND ECONOMIC TREES
22






;                               ' >''^ ' * ' c': ' '. | ' ;: '''' ' ' |; ' oo !>> a I DO 000' >!-} w 000 ^ 0 7, s0 s 0  eAen
:        u     i   i   s  :                                                     -. Jii,,^l..,  ''''S20ti           5|v--u.6l
:-0".,-'  ;t,,,  ,                      |i-i,    ^ ,'J  =  *  i''-'    "      ''  ^' |'z';*>;l'lai;.g.f'*><^5  ! 5 ' l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X   0  -  !  lf o o o o  o   s   !    w      4     N     9    k   lr        M     t   e     N         ??~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
i;;.  ,-.  *' . e  ,,   , e * D @   ! .-  4  '-?.f-Ag'   i  8   f   ; ,     .&;000Zt, -;
;                                      \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. -. .  m  OZ6S11 2q;OZZS'tO ZXZet.~  usen
o9  > ~~~~~/  p   %=t     ,          .   a             OO-SL8 lkl'l.  OO-O9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00'ZSZtGj.0-6'8l .   . _, 
XLY  \ ~~.eni>n3A1 i  !S^ 7 a+ S) )|s  w t>4lXll  l;^>S7\AA9  1 OO006Z6,91V  'OOIC ge 00' a z ez OOO'9'   aL;! ueoje
F- gP f S osif ) r  D  .@ @~~~/ ; b  &t-ch\a  00 000'OZt   o ogsLj;0 000'0L6C  Ia opeadot
V 1  >  : - :  2     *       &;t,            00-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000'9Z!q; --- 00-000695  . t  009Z'OL z.  . ..:;,nupaunoi
I  -                  f) _ ;1;Sv .        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO OOO'Zt  . 00,000'9  {1 '000'L   .; ;aue3
/  /  , '   2  7       1-',            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-o,99'9 Zt  000000 9, 101  :00-91!L'  ;:'of ,,:lcui
.                          -   -  (  &tz  - !W5@to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0090'00 16 '~  00Zo'6  "00t9999 1900  0 0 a .f .) eeiC-.le
.- .  %   * ., ^\ '  ' *  ' '' '-'.i  , >,  +  %t,4*   001000|09,'r'''<2. 'ooloooloas -s 91t,59, -,oD OOS.W  6CuZ s6
t                      si;     -'   '- t '' t <';'-) 66'|t;;+ - ;^ -;- - - t- \ - 0;- - - -;- L-00'cVC9IcO' -,00,ozlsg,  WLI
;;  C; :.  .. -.    .  ; .......... *oo o k;   I: 1O oo c ............................ .u7                       imo
.p<tt,, t) C <; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o' -.guSo             L                         L           LieW, aeAsoo



i
i
I
I
7                                  1



ANNEX B:
COMPENSATION PAYMENTS
TOTAL DUE, AMOUNT PAID, AND AMOUNT OUTSTANDING,
BY VILLAGE, PAP,
FOR CROPS AND STRUCTURES
To protect those people awarded compensation, the following lists contain only
the consecutive case numbers, and not the names, of those people. Full lists of
those awarded compensation are available at VRA in Accra and in the World Bank
in Washington for those who can demonstrate a need to have access to the
names of the people involved.
23



i
i
i
I
i
I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                         CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                              WESTERN- CENTRAL REGIONS
NO |ASESSED AND AGREED      AMOUNT PAID TO DATE |     LOCT 1       2003
VALUESOC                                          ,20
PRESTEA
1             1,280,672.57             528,336.29             752,336.28
2              337,096.69              168,548.35             168,548.34
3              590,000.00                                     590,000.00
4              117,902.40                                     117902.40
5             5,125,000.00           2,050,000.00            3,075,000.00
6              180,956.71               90,478.36              90,478.36
7             2,035,000.00           1,017,500.00            1,017,500.00
8             1,116,728.06             558,364.00             558,364.06
9             4,198,800.00           2,099,400.00            2,099,400.00
10              930,400.00             465,200.00              465,200.00
11              361,913.42              180,956.71             180,956.71
12            3,200,000.00            1,600,000.00            1,600,000.00
BARRIER
1              2,515,600.00            1,257,800.00           1,257,800.0
-2             1,817,600.00             908,800.00             908,800.0
3               392,000.00              196,000.00             196,000.00
4              2,038,400.00            1,019,200.00           1,019,200.00
5               580,000.00              290,000.00             290,000.00
6              1,176,000.00             588,000.00             588,000.00
7              3,299,230.00            1,649,615.00           1,649,615.00
-8             5,609,890.00            3,254,945.00           2,354,945.00
BRUMASI
1 |            943,431.60              471,715.00             471,716_.60
2 F           5,640,000.00           2,820,000.00            2,820,000.00
3             1,383,751.20             736,089.00             647,662.20
4              300,000.00              150,000.00             150,000.00
5             9,950,951.20           4,975,475.00            4,975,476.20
6             7,900,000.00            1,750,000.00           6,150,000.00
7             3,120,000.00           1,560,000.00            1,560,000.00
F  8            2,474,560.00            1,237,280.00            1,237,280.00
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                           CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                                WESTERN- CENTRAL REGIONS
NO    ESE     NDAREDBALANCE TO BE PAID BY
O     SESSED AND AGREED       AMOUNT PAID TO DATE          OCT 1,2003
VALUESOC                                            ,20
9             2,684,000.00             1,342,000.00            1,342,000.00
10               324,232.00              161,116.00              163,116.00
11             1,081,600.00              540,800.00              540,800.00
12             3,151,539.00             1,575,769.00            1,575,770.00
13             1,904,853.60              864,000.00             1,040,853.60
14             5,987,105.00             2,993,552.00            2,993,553.00
1 5              551,556.91              275,778.00              275,778.91
16             5,847,000.00             2,923,500.00            2,923,500.00
- 17           8,129,938.80             4,064,969.00            4,064,969.80
18             8,453,333.33             4,226,666.00            4,226,667.33
19             3,977,000.00             1,988,500.00            1,988,500.00
20             2,720,000.00             1,360,000.00            1,360,000.00
21             4,758,000.00             2,379,000.00            2,379,000.00
22             4,600,000.00             2,637,500.00            1,962,500.00
23              5,201,938.00            3,338,969.00            1,862,969.00
24              1,655,000.00             827,500.00              827,500.00
MRAKETE COMPOUND
1             8,300,000.00             4,330,000.00            3,970,000.00
2               665,267.37              332,633.00               332,634.37
3               565,900.00              282,950.00              282,950.00
4               140,800.00               70,400.00               70,400.00
5               773,184.55              386,592.00              386,592.55
6               417,627.02              208,813.00              208,814.02
7             18,869,364.16             944,682.00            17,924,682.16
8               404,972.16              202,486.00              202,486.16
9              5,250,000.00            2,625,000.00            2,625,000.00
10             1,339,888.64              669,944.00              669,944.64
11             1,363,662.81              681,831.00              681,831.81
12             1,182,970.40              591,485.00              591,485.40
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                         CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                               WESTERN - CENTRAL REGIONS
NO  ASSESSED AND AGREED    AONPIDTDTE             BALANCE TO BE PAID BY'
NO ||       VALUES          AMOUNT PAID TO DATE          OCT 1, 2003
KWAME NE AMPAH
1 |2,252,000.00                        812,500.00            1,439,500.00
2             1,625,000.00             812,500.00             812,500.00
3              325,407.32              162,703.00              162,704.32
4              260,000.00              130,000.00              130,000.00
5              429,620.27              214,810.00             214,810.27
- 6            552,000.00              276,000.00              276,000.00
7              293,412.47              146,706.00              146,706.47
8              436,956.71              218,478.00              218,478.71
6,174,396.77
DENSU
1           - 3,473,000.00          1,736,500.00            1,736,500.00
2             6,957,764.03            3,478,882.00           3,478,882.03
3             3,659,000.00            1,829,500.00           1,829,500.00
4              1,410,000.00            705,000.00              705,000.00
5             4,635,400.00                                   4,635,400.00
6             16,304,000.00           8,152,000.00
7               976,804.75             488,402.38             488,402.38
DUMASI
1             1,891,820.15             945,910.08             945,910.08
2             2,084,800.00            1,042,400.00           1,042,400.00
3             1,721,666.86             860,833.43              860,833.43
4               552,000.00             276,000.00              276,000.00
5             1,159,200.00             579,600.00              579,600.00
6              354,592.42              177,296.21              177,296.21
7             1,135,343.73             567,671.87              567,671.87
8             1,876,800.00             938,400.00              938,400.00
9             1,160,489.01             580,244.51              580,244.51
10 1            840,205.66              420,102.83             420,102.83
11 1           9,662,000.00           4,831,000.00            4,831,000.00
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                          CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                               WESTERN- CENTRAL REGIONS
NO   ASSESSED AND AGREED     AMOUNT PAID TO DATE    BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
VALUES                                        OCT________________2003______
-12            2,406,000.00            1,203,000.00           1,203,000.00
_ ________________ YAW ODURO KROM
1              376,518.48              188,259.24              188,259.24
2             2,298,000.00             803,400.00             1,494,600.00
3               413,443.80             206,721.90              206,721.90
4               113,600.00              56,800.00               56,800.00
-5              777,600.00             388,800.00              388,800.00
6             2,871,000.00            1,435,500.00            1,435,500.00
7             3,940,000.00            1,970,000.00            1,970,000.00
8             1,712,000.00             856,000.00              856,000.00
9             1,152,000.00             576,000.00              576,000.00
BOGOSO                  _
1             4,900,000.00            2,450,000.00           2,450,000.00
2             1,408,000.00             704,000.00              704,000.00
3             2,909,968.91             704,000.00             2,205,968.91
4            13,201,481.91            6,600,740.53            6,600,741.38
5             4,891,689.06            2,445,844.82           2,445,844.24
6            16,135,000.00            8,067,500.00            8,067,500.00
7               674,520.74             337,260.37              337,260.37
8             3,914,764.03            1,957,382.02            1,957,382.01
9               377,503.36              188,751.68             188,751.68
10             3,350,364.03            1,675,182.02            1,675,182.01
11             8,253,364.03            4,126,682.02           4,126,682.01
12             2,550,000.00                                   2,550,000.00
13             2,156,286.26            1,078,143.13           1,078,143.13
14             1,178,364.03             589,182.02              589,182.01
15             3,119,413.51            1,559,706.76           1,559,706.75
16              755,308.08                                      755,308.08
17             8,053,184.85            4,026,592.43           4,026,592.42
18             4,680,956.71  -         1,590,478.36           3,090,478.35
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                          CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                               WESTERN- CENTRAL REGIONS
NO ASSESSED AND AGREED    AMOUNT PAID TO DATE    BALANCE TO BE PAIDB
NO ||    VALUES         | A                           OCT 1, 2003
BOGOSO CONTINUED
19             2,700,000.00            1,350,000.00           1,350,000.00
201            1,200,000.00             600,000.00              600,000.00
211             770,000.00              385,000.00              385,000.00
22              484,551.83              242,275.92              242,275.91
231              49,351.83               24,675.92               24,675.91
24 l             49,351.83               24,675.92               24,675.91
251             378,364.03                                      378,364.03
26 |            320,901.22              160,450.61              160,450.61
27              288,000.00              144,000.00              144,000.00
28              972,617.08              486,308.54              486,308.54
291            1,925,000.00             962,500.00              962,500.00
30              526,419-.52             263,209.76              263,209.76
311             716,963.53              358,481.77              358,481.76
32             4,250,000.00            2,000,000.00           2,250,000.00
33             4,000,000.00            2,000,000.00           2,000,000.00
34             1,000,000.00             500,000.00              500,000.00
35             3,070,000.00            1,535,000.00            1,535,000.00
36             4,200,000.00            2,100,000.00           2,100,000.00
37             3,685,000.00            1,842,500.00            1,842,500.00
38             3,514,000.00            1,757,000.00            1,757,000.00
39             1,410,000.00             705,000.00              705,000.00
40              980,000.00              490,000.00              490,000.00
41              420,000.00              210,000.00              210,000.00
42             1,586,318.00             793,159.15              793,158.85
43             1,356,352.95             678,176.48              678,176.47
44              806,703.66              403,351.83              403,351.83
45             3,458,000.00            1,729,000.00            1,729,000.00
46              761,177.47              360,225.31              400,952.16
47             2,401,000.00            1,200,500.00            1,200,500.00
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                           CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                               WESTERN - CENTRAL REGIONS
NO   ASSESSED AND AGREED jAMOUNT PAID TO DATE        BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
VALUES         | A                             OCT 1, 2003
KOKOASE /AGYEIKROM        __________
1      5,600,000.00            2,800,000.00            2,800,000.00
2             1,200,000.00              600,000.00              600,000.00
- 3             960,000.00              480,000.00              480,000.00
4             8,710,000.00            4,355,000.00            4,355,000.00
- 5          10,649,467.69            5,324,733.85            5,324,733.84
6             3,598,875.00             1,799,437.51           1,799,437.49
7             5,400,000.00            2,700,000.00            2,700,000.00
8               148,055.49               74,027.75               74,027.74
9               6,125,000.00            3,062,500.00            302500
10             1,721,573.79              864,789.90              86738
11               339,888.64              169,944.32              169,944.32
12             2,648,860.64            1,304,430.10            1,344,430.54
13               886,481.06              443,240.53              443,240.53
14             2,042,364.03            1,021,182.02            1,021,182.01
15             6,820,000.00            3,340,000.00            3,480,000.00
16             4,710,000.00            2,355,000.00            2,355,000.00
17             8,375,000.00            4,187,500.00            4,187,500.00
18             4,525,000.00            2,262,500.00            2,262,500.00
AYENSUKROM
1,001,079.51                                    1,001,079.51
2             1,654,204.00              827,102.00              827,102.00
3             3,561,265.25              880,632.63            2,680,632.62
4             9,750,000.00            4,875,000.00            4,875,000.00
51            1,425,000.00              712,500.00              712,500.00
6 |            -_ 622,000.00            276,000.00              346,000.00
7 1           2,032,000.00             1,016,000.00            1,016,000.00
8             3_310_000.00             1,625,000.00            1,685,000.00
9_            4,986,419.52             1,359,709.36           3,626,710.16
10             1,244,78,5.95             622,392.93              622,393.02
11             1,035,000.00              517,500.00              517,500.00
12             3,341,323.18              433,161.59            2,908,161.59
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O. T.P                                          CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                                 WESTERN - CENTRAL REGIONS
NO   ASSESSED AND AGREED      AMOUNT PAID TO DATE     BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
VALUES                                          OCT__ _ _2003
-131           5,450,000.00             2,725,000.00            2,725,000.00
14             9,478,000.00             4,716,000.00            4,762,000.00
l 5             960,000.00               480,000.00               480,000.00
INSUSAIDING
1             10,145,000.00            2,597,500.00             7,547,500.00
2             2,900,000.00             1,450,000.00             1,450,000.00
3              1,750,000.00              700,000.00             1,050,000.00
4               947,200.00               473,600.00              473,600
5              1,192,156.71              564,078.00              628,078.71
ASANTEAYE
1             2,382,400.00               119,200.00             2,263,200.00
2              2,737,200.00            1,368,600.00             1,368,600.00
3              3,743,800.00              134,400.00             3,609,400.00
4              1,336,000.00              668,000.00              668,000.00
5              7,590,000.00            3,795,000.00             3,795,000.00
6               146,704.00                73,352.00               73,352.00
7             16,960,000.00            8,480,000.00             8,480,000.00
8             16,146,000.00            8,073,000.00             8,073,000.00
9              4,416,000.00            2,208,000.00             2,208,000.00
10             13,040,000.00              648,500.00            12,391,500.00
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                          CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                               WESTERN - CENTRAL REGIONS
NO ASSESSED AND AGREED    AONPIDTDTE              BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
NO |        VALUES           AMOUNT PAID TO DATE          OCT 1, 2003
PIMIISO
1             1,214,146.00             607,073.00              607,073.00
2             1,758,000.00             879,000.00              879,000.00
3            41,166,000.00           20,548,000.00           20,618,000.00
4             4,324,000.00            2,162,000.00            2,162,000.00
5            18,640,000.00            9,320,000.00            9,320,000.00
6               526,420.00             263,210.00              263,210.00
7               131,605.00              65,802.50               65,802.50
8            16,080,000.00            8,040,000.00            8,040,000.00
9               148,055.00              74,027.50               74,027.50
10             5,162,000.00            2,581,000.00           2,581,000.00
11              720,000.00              360,000.00              360,000.00
12               98,703.66               49,351.83               49,351.83
13               98,703.66               49,351.83               49,351.83
14            10,650,000.00            5,325,000.00           5,325,000.00
15            26,204,000.00           13,102,000.00           13,102,000.
16              831,340.00              415,670.00              415,670.00
17            11,235,600.00            5,617,800.00           5,617,800.00
18             1,932,000.00             966,000.00              966,000.00
19             6,210,000.00            3,105,000.00           3,105,000.00
20             2,461,000.00            1,242,000.00            1,219,000.00
21             3,840,000.00            1,536,000.00            2,304,000.00
22             9,156,000.00            4,424,000.00            4,732,000.00
23             6,800,000.00            3,400,000.00            3,400,000.00
24               180,957.00              90,478.50               90,478.50
25             3,704,000.00            1,852,000.00            1,852,000.00
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                         CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                            WESTERN - CENTRAL REGIONS
NO ASSESSED AND AGREED   AONPIDTDTE             BALANCE TO BE PAID BY'
NO g       VALUES           AMOUNT PAID TO DATE         OCT 1, 2003
ABAKAKROM
1            6,624,000.00           3,312,000.00            3,312,000.00
2              805,000.00             402,500.00             402,500.00
3             5,396,000.00           2,698,000.00           2,698,000.00
4             8,045,200.00           4,022,600.00           4,022,600.00
5             6,274,000.00           3,137,000.00           3,137,000.00
ADADEKROM
1            4,003,000.00             414,500.00            3,588,500.00
2            14,562,000.00           7,350,000.00           7,212,000.00
3             6,842,800.00            454,400.00            6,388,400.00
4             6,680,800.00           3,685,400.00           2,995,400.00
5            14,352,000.00           7,176,000.00           7,176,000.00
6             1,892,800.00            946,400.00             946,400.00
7            27,591,000.00           2,886,525.00          24,704,475.00
8             3,463,000.00           4,618,025.00 -         1,155,025.00
9             8,465,000.00           3,583,500.00           4,881,500.00
10            8,949,000.00            4,486,000.00           4,463,000.00
11            8,004,000.00           4,002,000.00           4,002,000.00
GYIMAKROM
1 a R         3,588,000.00           1 ,794,000.00          1,794,000.00
2             4,270,000.00           2,135,000.00           2,135,000.00
3             4,146,000.00           2,073,000.00           2,073,000.00
4            10,515,000.00           5,222,500.00           5,292,500.00
5             1,933,370.00            966,685.00             966,685.00
6              775,600.00             387,800.00             387,800.00
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O. T.p                                         CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                                WESTERN - CENTRAL REGIONS
NO ASSESSED AND AGREED    AONPIDTDTE              BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
NO ||   VALUES      |AMOUNT PAID TO DATE |         OT120
IIVALUES                                   I       OCT 1, 2003
AMPONSAHKROM
448,000.00              224,000.00              224,000.00
2             3,000,000.00            1,500,000.00            1,500,000.00
3             5,513,210.00            2,756,605.00            2,756,605.00
4               115,154.00               57,577.00              57,577.00
5                82,253.00 _                                    82,253.00
6               521,012.00             260,506.00              260,506.00
7               148,055.00              74,027.50               74,027.50
8             1,430,019.00             715,009.50              715,009.50
9                16,451.00               8,225.50                8,225.50
10             1,704,000.00             852,000.00              852,000.00
11               114,066.00              57,033.00               57,033.00
12             2,778,364.03            1,389,182.02            1,389,182.02
13             8,420,000.00            4,210,000.00            4,210,000.00
14             1,849,128.06             924,564.03              924,564.03
OPPONG VALLEY                _
1             2,604,433.00            1,317,867.00            1,286,566.00
2             9,837,000.00            4,918,500.00            4,918,500.00
3             1,902,000.00              951,000.00             951,000.00
4             7,172,000.00              472,230.00            6,699,770.00
5             1,252,104.00            1,103,282.00              148,822.00
6             2,556,000.00            1,278,000.00            1,278,000.00
7             3,293,000.00               3,115.00             3,289,885.00
8             3,625,000.00            1,812,500.00            1,812,500.00
9             1,724,232.00              862,116.00             862,116.00
10              290,703.30 _                                    290,703.30
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                          CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                              WESTERN- CENTRAL REGIONS
NO   ASSESSED AND AGREED    AMOUNT PAID TO DATE |     LOCT 1       2003
VALUESOC                                           ,20
KWAOTAWIAHKROM
1             6,664,320.00           1,582,160.00            5,082,160.00
2             4,416,000.00           2,208,000.00            2,208,000.00
3             3,036,000.00            1,518,000.00           1,518,000.00
4      .      4,830,000.00            2,415,000.00           2,415,000.00
5              947,200.00              473,600.00             473,600.00
6             7,999,200.00            3,443,600.00           4,555,600.00
7              710,925.00              355,462.50              355,462.50
8            11,638,047.00            5,819,023.50           5,819,023.50
9             7,314,000.00            3,657,000.00           3,657,000.00
10             4,375,000.00           2,187,500.00            2,187,500.00
11             2,346,000.00            1,173,000.00           1,173,000.00
121            2,448,000.00            1,104,000.00           1,344,000.00
131            1,628,400.00             814,200.00             814,200.00
141            9,498,000.00           4,749,000.00            4,749,000.00
151             552,000.00              276,000.00             276,000.00
16             7,817,676.00           3,660,437.00            4,157,239.00
HIAGONO.
1              570,000.00              285,000.00             285,000.00
2lI           1,375,000.00             687,500.00              687,500.00
3      __4,625,000.00                 2,312,500.00           2,312,500.00
POKUKROM (BRIDGESO)
1              751,262.00              375,631.00              375,631.00
2              500,842.00               46,954.00              453,888.00
3              880,000.00              440,000.00              440,000.00
4              375,631.00              187,815.50              187,815.50
5              626,052.00              313,026.00              313,026.00
6            11,799,000.00            5,334,000.00           6,603,000.00
CUMULATIVE TOTALS              .      .
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P                                              CROP COMPENSATION SUMMARY                                    WESTERN- CENTRAL REGIONS
1,085,284,646.66           486,482,860.20            592,765,389.69
PHASE I OF MAIN LINE( WESTERN REGION (PART) AND CENTRAL REGION)



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CENTRAL REGION                                       SUMMARY OF VALUES
TWIFU KYEBI/OPPONSO
ASSESSED ANDBAACTOEPIDY
NO     AGREED VALUES    AMOUNT PAID TO DATE         OCT 1, 2003
1          8,708,615.60          445,456.50             8,263,159.10
2            859,446.80          429,723.40              429,723.40
3          4,039,288.40        2,019,644.20             2,019,644.20
4          1,707,078.00          837,887.70              869,190.30
5          6,490,536.60        3,373,644.00             3,116,892.60
6          2,085,498.80         1,027,098.00            1,058,400.80
7          3,640,617.00        1,820,808.50             1,819,808.50
8          2,100,426.80        1,050,213.40             1,050,213.40
9          1,932,000.00          897,000.00             1,035,000.00
10          2,476,000.00                                 2,476,000.00
11          2,722,000.00        1,361,000.00             1,361,000.00
12           400,000.00           200,000.00              200,000.00
13           400,000.00           200,000.00              200,000.00
14           378,000.00           204,000.00              174,000.00
15           144,000.00            72,000.00               72,000.00
16           120,000.00            60,000.00               60,000.00
17            32,000.00            16,000.00               16,000.00
1 8           100,000.00           50,000.00               50,000.00
19          1,535,000.00          767,500.00              767,500.00
20          3,905,000.00        1,952,500.00             1,952,500.00
21          1,250,000.00          625,000.00              625,000.00
22         10,249,400.00        5,051,200.00             5,198,200.00
23          8,325,000.00        4,162,500.00             4,162,500,00
24          1,317,498.80          658,749.40              658,749.40
25           677,000.00           338,500.00              338,500.00
26          2,700,000.00        1,350,000.00             1,350,000.00
27            972,694.80          471,609.60              501,085.20
28           930,000.00     .     465,000.00              465,000.00
29          2,000,000.00        1,140,000.00              860,000.00
30          2,280,000.00        1,140,000.00             1,140,000.00
31          1,342,134.00          671,067.00              671,067.00
POTP/SUM/DOC



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CENTRAL REGION                                        SUMMARY OF VALUES
NO  ASSESSED AND     AMUTPI        ODT     BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
NO AGREED VALUES     AMUTPI        ODTOCT 1, 2003
TWIFU KYEBI/OPPONSO CONTINUED
32          7,972,000.00         3,986,000.00             3,986,000.00
33         23,827,000.00        12,909,500.00            10,917,500.00
34          3,864,000.00         1,932,000.00             1,932,000.00
35          3,750,000.00         1,875,000.00             1,875,000.00
36          8,064,000.00         5,157,000.00             2,907,000.00
37          2,250,000.00         1,125,000.00             1,125,000.00
IMBRAIM
1          12,714,000.00        6,288,000.00             6,426,000.00
2           8,307,565.00        3,891,282.50             4,416,282.50
3           6,001,329.20        1,125,664.60             4,875,664.60
4            187,815.00            93,907.50               93,907.50
5            805,000.00           402,500.00              402,500.00
6          12,500,000.00        6,187,500.00             6,312,500.00
7           4,256,000.00        2,078,000.00             2,178,000.00
8          13,473,000.00        6,338,500.00             7,134,500.00
9           3,520,000.00        1,775,000.00             1,745,000.00
10          7,820,000.00         4,738,000.00             3,082,000.00
11         14,068,000.00         7,310,000.00             6,758,000.00
12          2,198,000.00         1,099,000.00             1,099,000.00
13          3,415,959.80         1,257,979.00             2,157,980.80
DENYASE
1          2,830,272.55         1,360,208.29             1,470,064.26
2           1,580,878.00          774,757.70              806,120.30
3          15,556,000.00        7,709,000.00             7,847,000.00
4           2,944,000.00        1,403,000.00             1,541,000.00
5           5,235,092.09        2,609,320.74             2,625,771.35
6           2,814,937.82        1,399,243.61             1,415,694.21
POTP/SERM/DOC



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CENTRAL REGION                                       SUMMARY OF VALUES
NO      ASSESSED AND    AMOUNT PAID TO DAT    BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
DENYASE CONTINUED
7          8,702,052.00        4,335,374.70             4,366,677.30
8          8,039,219.88        4,019,609.90             4,019,609.98
9          1,222,127.80        1,935,063.90                                    712,936.10
10          2,712,000.00        1,287,000.00             1,425,000.00
1 1         3,560,000.00        1,780,000.00             1,780,000.00
12          1,804,000.00          902,000.00              902,000.00
13,          804,841.60           386,769.50              418,072.10
14           292,000.00           146,000.00              146,000.00
15           456,000.00           228,000.00              228,000.00
16           370,000.00            36,500.00              333,500.00
17           560,000.00           280,000.00              280,000.00
18           274,605.20           137,302.60              137,302.60
19            137,600.00          328,000.00                                    190,400.00
20          1,491,959.80          417,302.00             1,074,657.80
21          2,000,000.00        1,000,000.00             1,000,000.00
22         14,914,919.60        7,441,808.50             7,473,111.10
23          7,588,063.80        3,794,031.90             3,794,031.90
24          1,396,000.00          698,000.00              698,000.00
ESAASE
1          2,609,000.00        1,235,500.00             1,373,500.00
2          2,625,000.00         1,312,500.00            1,312,500.00
3          3,725,000.00         1,862,500.00            1,862,500.00
4          4,212,000.00         2,106,000.00            2,106,000.00
5          4,418,000.00        2,140,000.00             2,278,000.00
6          2,042,706.10          939,100.00             1,103,606.10
7          2,250,000.00         1,125,000.00            1,125,000.00
8          6,025,000.00        3,012,500.00             3,012,500.00
9          14,658,791.73        7,329,395.87            7,329,395.87
10         12,432,000.00        6,147,000.00             6,285,000.00
PO0P/S[UM/DOC



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CENTRAL REGION                                       SUMMARY OF VALUES
NO,J   ASSESSED AND     AMOUNT PAID TO DATE   BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
AGREED VALE        MUTPI       O    '        OCT 1, 2003
ESAASE CONTINUED
11          7,441,236.21        3,704,609.02            3,736,627.19
12          1,324,718.20          552,800.00              771,918.20
13          2,754,000.00         887,000.00             1,867,000.00
14          6,160,000.00        2,275,000.00            3,885,000.00
15          3,749,130.00        1,311,118.00             2,438,012.00
16          3,458,000.00        3,040,118.20              417,881.80
17          2,892,144.20        1,791,072.00             1,101,072.20
18          1,280,000.00          640,000.00              640,000.00
ASIKUMA
1          1,075,000.00          537,500.00              537,500.00
2          9,275,000.00        4,637,500.00             4,637,500.00
3          2,512,000.00         1,256,000.00            1,256,000.00
4          4,500,000.00        2,250,000.00             2,250,000.00
5          4,625,841.60         1,472,269.00            3,153,572.60
6          3,612,236.40         1,790,466.90            1,821,769.50
7          3,366,000.00         1,683,000.00            1,683,000.00
8            975,000.00          487,500.00              487,500.00
9            368,000.00          184,000.00              184,000.00
10          2,090,118.20        1,029,407.80             1,060,710.40
11          3,726,000.00        1,725,000.00             2,001,000.00
12          1,646,961.92        4,185,297.18                                   2,538,335.26
13          4,800,000.00        2,400,000.00             2,400,000.00
14          1,881,723.40          940,861.71              940,861.69
15          2,212,000.00          933,000.00             1,279,000.00
POTP/SUM/DOC



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CENTRAL REGION                                       SUMMARY OF VALUES
NO     ASSESSED AND      AMOUNT PAID TO DATE BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
IAGREED VALUES      AM   NTPITO       1OCT 1, 2003
BEBIARANEHA
1         10,736,000.00        5,368,000.00             5,368,000.00
-  2       5,134,000.00         2,567,000.00            2,567,000.00
3          4,210,000.00         1,967,000.00            2,243,000.00
4          2,692,000.00         1,277,000.00            1,415,000.00
5          6,486,000.00         3,243,000.00            3,243,000.00
6          14,852,000.00        7,426,000.00            7,426,000.00
7          2,708,000.00         1,285,000.00            1,423,000.00
8         20,160,031.20        10,064,364.30           10,095,666.90
9          1,840,000.00          920,000.00               920,000.00
AGYEMPABOA
1          2,210,445.84         1,089,571.62            1,120,874.22
2           1,463,209.76         731,605.88               731,603.88
3          12,908,328.60        4,454,164.30            8,454,164.30
4          2,272,641.50         1,136,320.75            1,136,320.75
5          6,160,000.00         3,080,000.00            3,080,000.00
6           1,889,723.40         140,861.70             1,748,861.70
7          4,875,000.00         2,437,500.00            2,437,500.00
8         3,890,933.80         1,945,466.90            1,945,466.90
9            548,257.93          265,903.66               282,354.27
10          1,371,356.55          685,678.28              685,678.27
11          1,259,857.90          621,703.66              638,154.24
ATEKYEM         _      _L
1          6,421,600.00         3,210,800.00            3,210,800.00
2          2,388,303.66         1,185,926.53            1,202,377.13
3          5,155,000.00         2,577,500.00            2,577,500.00
4          1,500,000.00                                 1,500,000.00
5          2,702,000.00         1,346,000.00            1,356,000.00
6          7,176,000.00         3,519,000.00            3,657,000.00
Ki r%  ASSESSED AND        AMOUNT PAID TO      BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/SUM/DOC



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
CENTRAL REGION                                        SUMMARY OF VALUES
AGREED VALUES             DATE                OCT 1,2003
ABESIWA
1          12,024,749.40        5,995,013.20            6,029,736.20
2          4,500,492.72         2,242,021.06            2,258,471.66
3          4,344,000.00                                 4,344,000.00
4            568,703.66                                   568,703.66
5          6,614,000.00         3,307,000.00            3,307,000.00
6            400,000.00          200,000.00               200,000.00
594,284,718.62      288,048,646.16           309,677,743.83
POTP/Sum/DOC



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                       SUMMARY OF VALUES
NO I ASSESSED AND AGREED |    AMOUNT PAID.TO DATE       BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
IVALUES                         I                     OCT 1, 2003
TAKYIKROM
1             9,366,000.00              4,683,000.00              4,683,000.00
2             4,985,515.86              2,380,257.93              2,605,257.93
3               713,703.66               319,351.83                 394,351.83
4             2,224,000.00              1,112,000.00              1,112,000.00
5               745,294.14               372,647.07                 372,647.07
6             1,838,065.25                806,532.63              1,031,532.62
7               857,854.38               428,927.19                 428,927.19
8             5,245,000.00                                        5,245,000.00
9               147,054.56                 73,527.28                 73,527.28
10              108,336.16                 54,168.00                 54,168.16
11              110,439.12                 55,219.56                 55,219.56
12             1,180,000.00               590,000.00                 590,000.00
13              800,000.00                400,000.00                 400,000.00
14             2,829,821.96              1,387,310.98              1,442,510.98
15             2,366,513.00              1,183,256.50              1,183,256.50
16             1,042,364.03               521,182.02                 521,182.01
17             1,375,000.00               687,500.00                 687,500.00
18             5,795,000.00              2,897,500.00              2,897,500.00
19             4,321,000.00              2,160,500.00              2,160,500.00
20             1,019,937.80                509,968.91                509,968.89
21            12,789,562.60              6,383,281.30              6,406,281.30
22             4,500,000.00              2,250,000.00              2,250,000.00
23              296,110.98                 148,055.49                148,055.49
24             1,435,200.00                717,600.00                717,600.00
MANUKROM                 _
1            14,635,297.19             10,413,648.60              4,221,648.59
2             6,325,000.00              3,105,000.00              3,220,000.00
3             2,107,815.60              1,053,907.80               1,053,907.80
4            11,964,110.98              5,947,555.49               6,016,555.49
5            12,606,000.00              6,280,000.00              6,326,000.00
s,   ASSESSED AND AGREED      ARArI IKIT DAm TfN rlATC  BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                      SUMMARY OF VALUES
VALUES         E   iWJvvIw . rOCT 1, 2003
MANUKROM CONTINUED
6             8,965,600.00             4,450,600.00              4,515,000.00
7             3,232,901.22             1,616,450.61              1,616,450.61
8            15,163,425.56             7,547,212.78              7,616,212.78
AMPUNYASE JUNCTION
1             5,290,000.00             1,573,200.00              3,716,800.00
2             9,639,000.00             4,762,000.00              4,877,000.00
3             6,180,419.52             2,778,709.76              3,401,709.76
4            16,052,265.25             6,904,132.63              9,148,132.62
5        2,977,890.08             1,465,945.04              1,511,945.04
SIKA NE ASEM      _
1             5,436,000.00 j           2,225,000.00              3,211,000.00
_____ ____ ____ ____NYAMEBEKYERE_II       _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
1             6,304,783.55             3,152,391.78              3,152,391.77
2             6,905,472.80             3,452,736.40              3,452,736.40
3             6,905,472.80             3,452,736.40              3,452,736.40
4             3,387,198.73              1,693,599.37             1,693,599.36
5             4,070,000.00             2,035,000.00              2,035,000.00
6             9,804,000.00             4,867,500.00              4,936,500.00
7             1,841,000.00               920,500.00                920,500.00
8             5,008,236.40             2,504,118.20  -           2,504,118.20
ADAMSO
1             6,503,000.00             3,251,500.00              3,251,500.00
2             1,832,800.00               916,400.00                916,400.00
3             6,000,000.00              3,000,000.00             3,000,000.00
2,700,000.00              1,350,000.00              1,350,000.00
5             3,029,335.38              1,514,667.69             1,514,667.69
---           7,464,000.00              3,686,000.00             3,778,000.00
Kf   ASSESSED AND AGREED      ARel IKIT DAIln TNfl nAT  BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                        SUMMARY OF VALUES
VALUES                                            OCT 1, 2003
7             7,268,000.00               3,588,000.00              3,680,000.00
8             2,789,959.80               1,394,979.00              1,394,980.80
9            16,238,000.00               8,073,000.00              8,165,000.00
10             7,250,000.00              3,625,000.00               3,625,000.00
11             5,035,521.60              2,517,760.00               2,517,761.60
12             9,612,400.00              4,793,400.00               4,819,000.00
13            10,971,222.00              5,485,611.00               5,485,611.00
14            13,975,000.00              2,862,500.00              11,112,500.00
15            19,417,762.35              9,708,881.18               9,708,881.17
____ ____ ____ ____FENASO     NKWANTA      _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _
1            16,656,617.00               8,282,308.50              8,374,308.50
2             1,886,288.40                943,144.20                 943,144.20
3             2,834,000.00               1,417,000.00              1,417,000.00
4             10,101,801.40              4,924,400.70              5,177,400.70
5             4,795,000.00               2,317,000.00              2,478,000.00
6              1,906,000.00               953,000.00                 953,000.00
7             1,191,400.00                595,000.00                 596,400.00
8             9,465,000.00               4,675,000.00              4,790,000.00
9             7,222,000.00               3,588,000.00              3,634,000.00
10             3,473,000.00               1,725,000.00              1,748,000.00
11            10,005,834.70               5,002,917.35              5,002,917.35
12            16,517,404.88               8,201,202.44              8,316,202.44
13            12,544,000.00               6,226,000.00              6,318,000.00
14             2,438,000.00               1,173,000.00              1,265,000.00
ABOAGYEKROM
1            15,594,000.00               4,968,000.00             10,626,000.00
2             3,968,000.00               1,823,000.00               2,145,000.00
3             5,547,279.89               2,771,639.95              2,775,639.94
4             4,509,508.76               2,062,754.38               2,446,754.38
ASSESSED AND AGREEd       AanIT                     BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                      SUMMARY OF VALUES
,v ~'      VALUES            m       I . PiSS. a  v. L      OCT 1, 2003
5             5,119,660.37             2,559,830.19              2,559,830.18
6             6,702,000.00             3,351,000.00              3,351,000.00
7            12,600,000.00             6,300,000.00              6,300,000.00
-8            8,544,000.00             4,249,000.00              4,295,000.00
9             4,294,400.00             2,147,200.00              2,147,200.00
10            15,932,000.00             7,920,000.00              8,012,000.00
1 1            1,321,867.69              660,933.85                660,933.84
12            9,608,200.00              4,792,600.00              4,815,600.00
13              332,800.00               166,400.00                166,400.00
14             5,973,491.84             2,986,745.92              2,986,745.92
15            19,117,079.89             9,558,539.95              9,558,539.94
P. W. D. CAMP
1            10,876,000.00             5,438,000.00              5,438,000.00
2             7,544,000.00             3,726,000.00              3,818,000.00
3             1,991,253.05               938,126.53              1,053,126.52
4             2,352,000.00             1,160,800.00              1,191,200.00
ADINKRA
1             2,871,200.00             1,408,000.00              1,463,200.00
2             3,240,200.00             1,599,400.00              1,640,800.00
3             6,518,200.00             3,201,600.00              3,316,600.00
41            1,283,400.00               621,000.00               662,400.00
5             6,500,000.00             3,952,000.00              2,548,000.00
6             5,194,749.40             2,867,374.70              2,327,374.70
7             2,051,800.00             1,120,400.00               931,400.00
8             3,027,247.76             1,901,123.88              1,126,123.88
9             2,800,000.00             1,400,000.00              1,400,000.00
10             8,706,513.00             4,353,256.50              4,353,256.50
11             2,050,000.00             1,025,000.00              1,025,000.00
121            6,294,328.60             2,497,164.30              3,797,164.30
~,   ASSESSED AND AGREED     AMnr IMT DAlr TN% nAT=    BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                      SUMMARY OF VALUES
VALUES                                          OCT 1, 2003
13            6,381,332.94               444,166.47              5,937,166.47
14            4,400,000.00              2,200,000.00             2,200,000.00
15            5,533,617.00              2,391,808.50             3,141,808.50
16            5,257,565.00              2,628,782.50             2,628,782.50
17            3,571,399.28              1,785,699.64             1,785,699.64
TWEAPEASE
1             6,891,000.00             3,445,500.00             3,445,500.00
2            10,145,000.00             5,072,500.00             5,072,500.00
3             5,116,000.00             2,558,000.00             2,558,000.00
4             4,238,400.00             2,091,600.00             2,146,800.00
5             4,236,000.00             2,072,000.00             2,164,000.00
6             6,325,000.00             3,105,000.00             3,220,000.00
7             2,967,000.00             1,449,000.00             1,518,000.00
8             3,601,878.00             1,759,539.00              1,842,339.00
9             1,104,660.37              552,330.19                552,330.18
10            1,450,308.54               512,654.27                937,654.27
11             1,757,566.47              878,783.24                878,783.23
12            5,000,000.00              2,500,000.00             2,500,000.00
13            7,920,000.00              3,960,000.00             3,960,000.00
14            10,499,600.00             5,222,200.00             5,277,400.00
15            10,257,400.00             4,840,700.00             5,416,700.00
16              250,455.49               125,227.75                125,227.74
17              340,055.49               170,027.75                170,027.74
18            2,375,000.00              1,187,500.00             1,187,500.00
19            8,209,000.00              3,816,500.00             4,392,500.00
20             3,475,000.00             1,737,500.00             1,737,500.00
21             7,397,000.00             3,061,000.00             4,336,000.00
22             4,900,000.00             3,050,000.00             1,850,000.00
23              789,629.28               394,814.64                394,814.64
24             2,922,000.00             1,461,000.00              1,461,000.00
sIn  ASSESSED AND AGREED     ARAnI IKIT DAIl TN nflTr  BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                      SUMMARY OF VALUES
Iv     VALUES                   . r v      |  v         OCT 1, 2003
TWEAPEASE CONTINUED
25              668,617.08               334,308.54                334,308.54
26              891,938.80               445,969.40                445,969.40
27             4,612,975.20             2,306,487.60              2,306,487.60
28             1,295,000.00              647,500.00                647,500.00
29             1,679,000.00              839,500.00                839,500.00
30              100,000.00                50,000.00                 50,000.00
31              990,000.00               575,000.00                415,000.00
32             6,160,000.00             3,080,000.00              3,080,000.00
33   ---       4,200,000.00             2,100,000.00              2,100,000.00
34             4,500,000.00             2,100,000.00              2,400,000.00
35             3,453,364.03             1,434,200.00              2,019,164.03
36             3,453,364.03              901,682.02               2,551,682.01
37             6,725,000.00             2,800,000.00              3,925,000.00
38             4,075,000.00             2,037,500.00              2,037,500.00
39             7,711,893.60             3,855,946.80              3,855,946.80
40             3,600,000.00             1,800,000.00              1,800,000.00
41             1,885,301.22              929,850.61                955,450.61
42             3,793,407.32             1,896,703.66              1,896,703.66
43             1,707,871.09              853,935.55                853,935.54
44             6,702,000.00             3,351,000.00              3,351,000.00
45             6,702,000.00             3,351,000.00              3,351,000.00
46             5,983,000.00             2,934,000.00              3,049,000.00
47              568,110.98                248,055.49               320,055.49
48             1,990,166.47              998,083.24                992,083.23
49             1,453,600.00               717,600.00               736,000.00
50             5,457,600.00             2,715,000.00              2,742,600.00
51             5,457,600.00             2,715,000.00              2,742,600.00
52              413,857.93               206,928.97                206,928.96
53            10,700,000.00             5,350,000.00              5,350,000.00
54     -       3,675,000.00             1,837,500.00              1,837,500.00
55             3,325,000.00             1,662,500.00              1,662,500.00
56             3,151,472.80             1,575,736.40              1,575,736.40
>  ASSESSED AND AGREED      ARMAlII?T DAIln TN lAT   BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                      SUMMARY OF VALUES
VALUES         I   ""*' .      I    L            OCT 1, 2003
NYAMEBEKYERE I
2,405,364.03              1,202,682.02             1,202,682.01
2             6,219,600.00             3,061,500.00              3,158,100.00
3             6,219,600.00             3,061,500.00              3,158,100.00
4            11,161,000.00             5,523,000.00              5,638,000.00
5             5,077,209.76             2,838,604.88              2,238,604.88
6              887,200.00               443,600.00                443,600.00
7             3,926,800.00             1,963,400.00              1,963,400.00
8            10,717,000.00             5,335,500.00              5,381,500.00
9             1,537,452.98              654,661.34                882,791.64
10            4,798,000.00              2,399,000.00              2,399,000.00
11            1,773,720.74              1,687,260.37                86,460.37
12            6,631,000.00              3,281,000.00              3,350,000.00
13            3,332,000.00              1,660,000.00              1,672,000.00
14            3,201,600.00               772,800.00               2,428,800.00
15             3,466,365.60             1,733,182.80              1,733,182.80
APITISO 
1            12,940,609.76             6,451,904.88              6,488,704.88
2             9,271,600.00             4,617,400.00              4,654,200.00
3            10,744,000.00             5,303,000.00              5,441,000.00
4             6,572,000.00             2,002,600.00              4,569,400.00
5             1,656,923.40               653,661.70              1,003,261.70
6             6,325,000.00             3,105,000.00              3,220,000.00
7             8,765,000.00             4,325,000.00              4,440,000.00
8             2,682,000.00             1,341,000.00              1,341,000.00
9             8,164,725.62             3,636,662.00              4,528,063.62
10             1,357,000.00              657,800.81                699,199.19
11             1,758,000.00              879,000.00                879,000.00
12             6,675,000.00             3,280,000.00              3,395,000.00
13             4,014,749.40             1,707,374.70              2,307,374.70
ASSESSED AND AGREED      AAEnl IKIT DAln Tn nfAT=  BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTP/DOC/ELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                        SUMMARY OF VALUES
VALUES           i nIvII   rrIuLI %     I vm IOCT 1, 2003
__APITISO_CONTINUED
14             6,140,200.00               2,145,100.00               3,995,100.00
15             2,545,170.20               1,126,585.10               1,418,585.10
16             7,910,000.00               3,617,500.00              4.292,500.00
17             8,975,000.00               4,487,500.00              4,487,500.00
___________________              APITIKOOKO -
1             2,295,591.00               1,992,934.23                302,656.77
2             1,840,277.45                487,500.00                1,352,777.45
3             1,125,000.00                148,055.49                 976,944.51
4               296,110.98                973,520.37                        -      677,409.39
5             1,347,040.73                 78,256.00                1,268,784.73
6        156,513.00                 78,256.50                  78,256.50
7               981,723.40               1,145,841.20       .-                     164,117.80
1,000,000.00                   500,000.00                 500,000.00
9                88,426.80                 44,213.40                  44,213.40    841,527.19
10               58,951.20                  29,475.60                  29,475.60
11              - 31,302.60                 15,651.30                  15,651.30
12               719,960.00                344,328.66                 375,631.34
___________________        APITIKOOKO CONTINUED
13             4,359,159.80               2,476,954.60               1,882,205.20
14             4,651,665.91                950,201.76                3,701,464.15
15             1,664,051.36                757,025.68                 907,025.68
16             1,300,841.60                650,420.80                 650,420.80
17               719,959.80                359,979.90                 359,979.90
18            24,519,000.00              12,259,500.00              12,259,500.00
19            11,452,400.00                         _               11,452,400.00
ASSESSED AND AGREED       AMAIpn iMT DAnrn nAfAT=   BALANCE TO BE PAID BY
POTPIDOCIELI



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
P.O.T.P
ASHANTI REGION                                        SUMMARY OF VALUES
VALUES         I A  ""w"VV I r riJA I  W  I       OCT 1, 2003
NHYIAESO
1              598,400.00                 299,200.00                299,200.00
2             1,027,422.64                513,711.32                513,711.32
3               788,000.00                394,000.00                394,000.00
4               861,707.86                510,853.93                 350,853.93
5               979,422.64                489,711.00                489,711.64
960,000.00                  480,000.00                 480,000.00
7             2,514,243.70               1,257,121.85              1,257,121.85
8               952,000.00                152,000.00                800,000.00
_ANYINAMIOBUASI
1            29,574,000.00                                        29,574,000.00
1,173,590,263.31           545,109,610.18             629,322,180.32
POTP/DOC/ELI



I                                         I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                 I
i
i
i
i
I



ANNEX C:
COMPENSATION PAYMENTS
BY VILLAGE,
FOR SHRINES AND CEMETERIES
26



---- ---



BOGOSU
SHRINE
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                3                300,000               900,000
Beer                 1 carton          48,000                48,000
Schnapps             2 carton         300,000               300,000
Fanta                3 crete           26,000                26,000
Cocks                                  20,000                60,000
Building                                                  4,000,000
Cash                                                      3,000,000
Total                                                     8,334,000
AYENSUKROM
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                2                300,000               600,000
Minerals             4 cretes          26,000               104,000
Schnapps             1 carton         300,000               300,000
Local Gin            5 Gallons         42,000               210,000
Red calico           1 piece          150,000               150,000
Cash                                                      6,000,000
Total                                                     7,364,000
PEMESU
SHRINE
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                1 No.            300,000               300,000
Schnapps             1 Carton         300,000               300,000
600,000
DANYASE
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                       6         300,000             1,800,000
Minerals             2 crates          26,000                52,000
Schapps              1 carton         300,000               300,000
Local Gin            2 gallons         42,000                84,000
Cash                         _ _                          4,000,000
6,236,000



ASIKUMA
SHRINE
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                       4         300,000             1,200,000
Schapps              2 cartons        300,000              600,000
Yams                 2 tubers          10,000               20,000
Local eggs           1 crate           10,000               10,000
Palm oil             2 bottles          6,000               12,000
Groundnuts           2 cups             7,000               14,000
Bread                2 cups             3,000                6,000
Tiger Nuts                              4,500                9,000
Sugar                                   2,500                5,000
Cash                                                      3,000,000
4,876,000
TWIFO
CEMETERY
ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST      TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep
Schnapps
Local Gin
Cash compensation                            costing 2,620,000
BABIANEHA
CEMETERY
[      ITEMS           NO.      UNIT COST     TOTAL ESTIMATES
Sheep                2 No.                  l
Scchapps local
Cash compensation                                         2,500,000



ANNEX D:
QUESTIONNAIRE
TO DETERMINE VULNERABILITY OF
PROJECT- AFFECTED PERSONS
27



I



PRESETEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT FORM
Date:
Name of PAP:
Age:                                      Birthyear:
Gender          LI Male     El Female
Marital Status:  LI Married
OI Widow or Widower
[2 Divorced
Ol Unmarried
Number of Children:
Number of Children in Household:
Nature of Loss:  CJ   Annual Crops
[1    Economic Trees (with or without annual crops)
oI    Residence
Primary Occupation:
(e.g., farmer, miner, transport)
Secondary Occupations:
(including seasonal;
note all)
Replaced Assets Lost? Fl No
I I Yes
If so, How?
Additional Assistance Required?
O No
El Yes
If so, What?
28



i
I
i
I
i
i
i
II
i
I
k



ANNEX E:
GRIEVANCE REGISTRATION FORM
29



I
I
i
i
i
I
I
I
I
iI
I
0



PRESETEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
GRIEVANCE REGISTRATION FORM
Date:
Name:
Village:
Plot Affected:                     .
Nature of Complaint:
Signed:
(Complainant)
Name (printed):
I have gone over the calculation of the complainant's compensation, and he/she
understands the award. This complaint goes beyond the question of calculation. I so
attest, without comment on the merits of the complaint
Signed:
(Local Authority)
Name (printed):
Position:
30



Resolution:                                   Date:
32



LESSONS FOR FUTURE INVESTMENTS
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
GHANA THERMAL POWER (P-VII) PROJECT
(P000296)
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
Accra, Ghana
SEPTEMBER 2003






LESSONS FOR FUTURE INVESTMENTS
Experience of the Prestea-Obuasi project suggests several lessons that can be
adopted usefully in future initiatives. These include:
1.    Develop a Resettlement Action Plan to guide implementation of
the operation.
Development of a resettlement plan is not only a common pre-condition for donor
assistance, it is a fundamental necessity for project implementation and, no less
importantly, for public information and good corporate relations with the communities
affected. For project personnel, a resettlement plan (RAP) provides guidelines on
what to do and how. For affected communities, a RAP provides basic information
about the extent of impact, the method for determining compensation and other
measures, grievance procedures and the like. In other words, a Resettlement Action
Plan provides a common basis for project staff and affected people, thus facilitating
the operation.
2.    Coordinate the inventory of physical assets that will be taken
with the topological survey for transmission lines and other
infrastructure.
When the topological survey for an investment is conducted prior to, and
independent of, the field inspection for land acquisition, engineering concerns are not
only paramount, they are the only concerns taken into account.
Other factors such as minimization of social disruption and minimization of economic
cost are, however, also important. Thus, when the preliminary alignment of a
transmission line or other infrastructure has been determined on a preliminary basis,
a field inspection of the proposed line should be carried out to determine whether
alternative alignments might reduce the extent of land taking, especially in populated.
centers and sensitive areas, such as cemeteries and shrines. The Engineering
Department, in consultation with the Environment Departmrent and the Real Estate
Department, can then determine the optimal alignment taking the various relevant
factors, and public opinion and suggestions, into consideration.
Further, the field inspection of land taking can be done at the same time as the
topological survey. In this way, affected communities are involved in the physical lay-
out of the investment. Also, all of the plots and structures can be included on the.
blueprints of the alignment, which greatly facilitates dispute resolution and
monitoring.
Finally, access tracks and other temporary borrowings need to be included in original
planning to the fullest extent possible. Such planning reduces the extent of social
and economic disruption, improves corporate relations with communities, and helps
ensure that the necessary funds are available to compensate for such collateral
damage.



3.    Record basic socio-economic information for each affected
household at the time of the physical asset inventory.
Taking land and other assets affects different people differently. In order to assess
the probably impact of loss on individual families, it is necessary to collect basic
socio-economic information about each landowner and any land user. In this way,
any necessary additional remedial measures required by vulnerable populations can
be planned from the outset of the project.
The present focus on physical assets is understandable since a basic aim of this -
work is inventorying assets and valuing them in order to pay appropriate
compensation. Nevertheless, the aim of any investment is to contribute to the
development of the country without impoverishing those who are directly and
adversely affected by the undertaking. There are, therefore, additional concerns,
such as the identification of vulnerable populations, which include the elderly,
women-headed households, and small farmers and in-migrants who cultivate very
small holdings. To determine whether these affected, vulnerable groups need
additional assistance, it is necessary to collect a modicum of basic information about
landowners and cultivators. This information can be collected at the same time as
the field inspection.
This complementary information includes, but is not limited to age, marital status,
number and age of children, primary occupation, extent of total holdings (in addition
to extent of affected holding), and other income opportunities.
This information helps identify those PAPs who are either unable, or who would have
inordinate difficulty to obtain or open a new field, plant tree crops to replace the ones
lost, or find or construct a replacement house or place of business. It would also help
identify those small farmers who might lose a significant share of their land, and who
would thus lose a significant source of livelihood. (The identification of such
vulnerable people can be verified through interviews in the villages.)
With this information, the project can institute additional measures to help those
people who require special assistance to restore their income to pre-project levels.
The success of these measures would be monitored periodically in order to provide
project management with timely information on any needed adjustments to the
program.
4.    Implement a land valuation process that facilitates
compensation calculation, compensation offers and
negotiation, and compensation payment before construction
begins.
By law, VRA is legally required to work through the Land Valuation Board for the
determination of fair compensation. VRA has collaborated closely with LVB --
notifying its staff when their participation will be required for a physical asset
inventory, providing transport and other facilities as necessary, corroborating the
findings of the field inventory in order to ensure consistency of assessments. LVB,
however, is inordinately slow in providing the official valuations, requiring at least one
year and often two to complete its valuations because all of the work is done by
hand. Moreover, LVB staff may, as happened in the current project, use different
2



assumptions about spacing densities, which lead to significant differences in asset
loss and compensation amounts.
In this situation, while VRA must continue to collaborate with LVB, the Authority can
also use complementary techniques in order to expedite the valuation process. For
example, VRA can suggest to project-affected people that they, the PAPs, engage an
independent valuer to assess the extent of each individual's loss. The cost of the
independent valuer will be borne by the Authority, as is, by law, already the case
when a PAP disputes compensation and engages an independent valuer. Whatever
the valuers assessment, the Authority reimburses the costs incurred by the PAP.
The only differences in the proposed technique is that the Authority would engage
independent valuers systematically and would itself pay the -valuers for their work on
behalf of the project-affected people.
5. Involve affected people integrally in the planning and
implementation of the program, including the establishment of
local grievance committees.
People in the communities affected by new infrastructure can assist importantly in the
design of the investment. Moreover, they also have a right to know how they will be
affected by the investment.
People can help in the design of projects in several ways, if they are consulted
meaningfully. People identify alternative routes that may take less private and more
government land. They can identify the owners of land parcels and their
whereabouts. Local committees can and do help resolve disputes more readily at
the local level. And, they can assist in clearing the line and maintaining the right-of-
way.
At the same time, projects have an obligation to inform the affected population as
fully and accurately as possible about project actions. People want to know - and
have a right to know - about the timing of land taking, the procedure for calculating
compensation, the terms and conditions for land use under transmission lines after
construction, and other matters. Every project has an obligation to keep people
informed, and to answer their questions are fully and honestly as possible. This not
only facilitates project implementation, it enhances corporate reputation.
6. Complete resettlement compensation and initiate any
rehabilitation programs before investment construction begins.
By its nature, involuntary acquisition of land and other assets disadvantages the
population affected. Any delay in compensation and any required economic
rehabilitation programs only increases the impact of the involuntary resettlement
program on the affected population. Good corporate practice requires that any
resettlement compensation be completed, and any rehabilitation program be initiated,
before construction for the investment begins in the area in order to minimize the
resettlement impact.
In this regard, VRA legally must collaborate with LVB in determining compensation
values, but VRA can also institute an alternative process that facilitates the valuation -
process and conduces towards timely payment. Namely, VRA can suggest to project
affected people that they, the PAPs, engage an independent valuer to assess the
3



extent of each individual's loss. In this approach, as mentioned earlier, VRA would
engage valuers systematically, and would itself pay the valuers for their work on
behalf of the affected people.
7. Implement a monitoring system, with particular attention to
vulnerable populations.
The responsible corporate view of an investment is that it is not only a technical
undertaking, but also an environmental and social intervention. For this reason, good
corporate citizens implement environmental and social monitoring systems to ensure
that their activities do as little harm and ideally enhance the areas and communities
where they are working. Land acquisition for an investment is a basic, but not the
only, concern. The consequences of that land taking, and the success of measure to
remedy adverse consequences, are also of concern. For all of these reasons, the
project authority not only tracks land-taking and its consequences, but also closely
follows the success of remedial measures in order to maintain and restore conditions
in the areas affected and to improve future investment interventions.
p
4



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
ADAMSO
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L    M     S  SDLG      L       M       S     SDLG            P                P
1           OPA        51                   125000         _                    6,375,000.00
PL        16                     8000 _              _               128,000.00
-          6,503,000.00
2            OPA                 20_                         75000               1,500,000.00
PL        16    14   24          8000     6400   4800                332,800.00
1,832,800.00
3           OPA        48                   125000                              6,000,000.00
-          6,000,000.00
41           OPA            27                       100000                      2,700,000.00 
_                                                                                                 2,700,000.00
5_           OPW       18    9   11          80000   64000   48000               2,544,000.00 
PL        28    14   12          8000     6400   4800                371,200.00 
Pawpaw     5  _                  6000                                 30,000.00
1253*100   CA            0.58                      145061                         84,135.38
6_Pawpaw.  6                            -                      -         3,029,335.38
6 _________ Pawpaw      6       -             6000                                 36,000.00
OPW        2                    80000                            _    160,000.00
229*100    Cocoa    316  _                 23000                               7,268,000.00
_          7,464,000.00
7           OPA        16                   125000                               2,000,000.00 
AVP         1                   70000                                  70,000.00
_100*100   PNP      0.23                  3130260                                719,959.80 
__ _________ ______                      _______               -         2,789,959.80
8 513*100   Cocoa     706                    23000                             G16,238,000.00 
I_ _________                                                                           *         16,238,000.00
9            OPA       58                   125000                               7,250,000.00
.                                                   -          7,250,000.00
10 157*100   Cocoa          216                        18400                      3,974,400.00
1157*100   PNP           0.36                     2947560                       1,061,121.60
_________  ______                       _______  =______  ______                                 5,035,521.60
_________                =______ =___                         =_                                58,842,616.78



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
________                                          ADAMSO                   .
FARM/                    SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG            P              P
l 11 253*100    Cocoa    348   =    =            23000                               8,004,000.00
145*50      Cocoa      30                    23000                                690,000.00
PL         86   36                8000     6400                       918,400.00
-          9,612,400.00
12            OPA        76                   125000                               9,500,000.00
207*100    PNP      0.47                  3130260                               1,471,222.20
-         10,971,222.20
13            OPA        67   56              125000   100000                     13,975,000.00 ___
13,975,000.00
14            OPW        76   42               80000    64000                      8,768,000.00
OPA        44   32              125000   100000                      8,700,000.00
156*100    CA            0.35                      1645061                        575,771.35
= 156*100      PNP      0.35                  3130260                    =          1,095,591.00
__________ PL         18   21                8000     6400        _               278,400.00
I_                    =    =    =     =                                                           19,417,762.35
15 229*100    Cocoa     316                    23000                               7,268,000.00
__________           =_______ = =    =_____________                                               7,268,000.00
=______   =_______ =___=                                             =___-___._       61,244,384.55



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                             CROP VALUATION
FENASO NKWANTA
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND    L     M    S   SDLG     L       M        S    SDLG            P               p
1 200*100   PNP      0.45   -              3130260           _                  1,408,617.00
426*100    Cocoa    586                    23000                              13,478,000.00
AVP         7    8    7          70000   56000   42000              1,232,000.00 ___
Kola           - 4              70000                                280,000.00 
Pawpaw      3                     6000                              - 18,000.00
OPW_        3                    80000                               240,000.00
_______                         -       ~~~~~~~~~~~16,656,617.00
2 149*100   PNP      0.34                  3130260                              1,064,288.40     16,656,617.00
Cocoa      10  -                23000        _                       230,000.00
BA          4-            -      8000                                 32,000.00
OPW         7           _       80000                                560,000.00
_  _      _              _        _                                       1,886,288.40
31          Cocoa      46                    23000       _        _             1,058,000.00
OPW        21  -    -            80000   _                          1,680,000.00
BA         12  -    -             8000   _                            96,000.00
________                 -        ~~~~~~~~2,834,000.00
4 298*90    Cocoa     377                    23000              _ _             8,671,000.00    ---_----
215*80     PNP      0.39                 3130260                               1,220,801.40
AVP         2                    70000                               140,000.00
Kola        1                    70000                                70,000.00
______                      -        10,101,801.40
5 137*60    Cocoa     113                    23000                              2,599,000.00       .
_________ BA         17                     8000                 ,              136,000.00
OPW        20                   80000        _ _                -   1,600,000.00
50*30      Cocoa     20  -                 23000        _                       460,000.00
_   _   _   4,795,000.00
6           Cocoa      62   -                23000                              1,426,000.00
_________  OPW        6                    80000                                480,000.00
_______                              -         1,906,000.00
7 __     _  Cocoa      43   11               23000    18400                     1,191,400.00 _
1,191,400.00
=___=_==_=                                    39,371,106.80



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
I ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
________ ______                             FENASO NKWANTA
FARM/                    SIZES                      RATES              | TOTAL VALUE          AMOUNT
ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG   _P__P
8 257*100    Cocoa     353                   23000                               8,119,000.00
i _ = ________ Pawpaw     3                     6000                                 18,000.00
OPW        16                    80000                               1,280,000.00
BA          6  =_=_=              8000    =      _=__                  48,000.00       9,465,000.00
-      ~~9,465,000.00
9 228*100    Cocoa     314                   23000                                7,222,000.00
10110*100     Cocoa    151                    23000                               3,473,000.00
-      ~~3,473,000.00
11 48*100     Cocoa     66                    23000                               1,518,000.00
= 76*100       Cocoa          102                       18400                      1,876,800.00
=180* 100   Cocoa    246                    23000                               5,658,000.00
= -            PL         18  =                 8000                                 144,000.00
=   __________ Pawpaw     6                     6000                                 36,000.00
= 76*50        CA            0.08                     1645061                       131,604.88
61*50      CY       0.07                  1940426                                135,829.82
PL              67   16                    6400   4800                505,600.00
12=Pi27                       57 =                                                                  10,005,834.70
12 ________   P1   -    27    57               8000     6400                       580,800.00
= 73*50        CA/CY         0.08                     1645061                       131,604.88
BA         12                     8000                                 96,000.00
1 496*100      Cocoa    683                    23000                              15,709,000.00
_______ _______ =_____                        ,         16,517,404.88
13 515*70     Cocoa    496                    23000                              11,408,000.00
_________  OPW        13                    80000                               1,040,000.00
BA         12                     8000                                 96,000.00
1  1                12,544,000.00
14 110*70     Cocoa     106                   23000                               2,438,000.00
2,438,000.00
_________ ..___                          _______  _______  ______                                61,665,239.58



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                                  CROP VALUATION
ABOAGYEKROM
FARM/                     SIZES         .    _  _      RATES                 TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND     L     M     S   SDLG      L        M        S     SDLG             P      __P
1 296*50      Cocoa     203                      23000                                 4,669,000.00
345*100     Cocoa     475                      23000                                10,925,000.00
______  _15,594,000.00
2 (176*50)+34 Cocoa     168                      23000                     _           3,864,000.00
PL          13                      8000                                   104,000.00
.          3,968,000.00
3 214*100     CA/CY     0.49  -                1645061                                  806,079.89          ,
214*75      PL              437            _       _      6400                       2,796,800.00
Pawpaw      15  -                   6000               .                    90,000.00
214*30      Cocoa                  88_                           13800               1,214,400.00
OPW          8        -            80000                                   640,000.00
______                     .              5,547,279.89
4 146*63      PL        252         -             8000                                 2,016,000.00         ,
=   146*63      CY        -    0.21  -      -             1555756                         326,708.76
146*63      Cocoa           -     126_                          13800                1,738,800.00
= _________ Pawpaw     11   -           -       6000                                    66,000.00
OPW          4  -     -            80000                                   320,000.00
OR                      1 _  1                      42000                   42,000.00
-  -  -  -   4,509,508.76
5 166*100     Cocoa           228  -     -                 18400         _4,195,200.00
PL         29    57                 8000      6400                         596,800.00
Pawpaw      8                       6000                                    48,000.00
=   97*80       Ca             0.17  -                    1645061                         279,660.37
- - -  _ _  __-  5,119,660.37
6 196* 100    Cocoa     264   -                  23000                                 6,072,000.00
AVP          1                     70000                                    70,000.00
OPVV         7                     80000                                   560,000.00
______                -           6,702,000.00
7        _     OPA       72    36   -           125000   100000                       12,600,000.00
__________                          ______ _______________                                              12,600,000.00
=_______==_=_--__                                 54,040,449.02



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
PWD CAMP
FARM/                    SIZES                      RATES               TOTAL VALUE           AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L       M        S    SDLG              p          __
1            OPA        84                   125000                              10,500,000.00
BA         47                     8000                  _             376,000.00
=_ __   =  = =.-                                        10,876,000.00
2 238*100    Cocoa     328                    23000                               7,544,000.00
_____                                  .______________         7,544,000.00
3 60*38      CA            0.05                      1645061                        82,253.05
75*80      Cocoa      83        -           23000                               1,909,000.00
-     - _  =  =  =1,991,253.05
4            OPA         8        16   -     125000           75000               2,200,000.00
- _   _  ___   PL             - 19               8000                                152,000.00
._ = = =..2,352,000.00
_______  _______________22,763,253.05



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                               CROP VALUATION
ADINKRA
__    FARM/                    SIZES                       RAE_ ATES     _      TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
ACREAGE     KIND    L    M     S   SDLG     L        M        S     SDLG   0         P     __       _    _P
1 178*75     Cocoa               184   -                       13800               2,539,200.00
OPW                               80000 4_                              320,000.00
Pawpaw      2                      6000                                  12,000.00
--                                                                               2,871,200.00
2 181 *75    Cocoa                189  -                       13800                2,608,200.00      _
PW          7                     80000                                 560,000.00
PL          9                      8000            _                     72,000.00
-                                      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 3,240,200.00
3 212*90     Cocoa     263 -      34    -     23000        _   13800                6,518,200.00 _    _      _
-      -    -                                                               6,518,200.00
4 96*70      Cocoa                 93    _                      13800               1,283,400.00
-   -  -  -                                             -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,283,000.00
5 ____-___=OPA          52                   125000             -     _             6,500,000.00 _     _     _
-      -     - = = =           _                                      -     6,500,000.00
6            OPA        20 -      28   -     125000            75000                4,600,000.00
120*70     PNP      0.19                  3130260                                  594,749.40
- _ _   _                                                        5,194,749.40
7            OPA         7   11 -   -        125000    100000                       1,975,000.00
PL              12  -     -                 6400                         76,800.00
-      -     -     -   _______ _______ ______                          -          2,051,800.00
8 70*70/50*50 CA _    __=  0.11  0.05  -   _______    1645061 1425821                252,247.76        =
l________  OPA      -      18    13  -               100000  75000                2,775,000.00       3,027,247.76
__ _________ CPA  -  -  -                                          -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,027,247.76
9_ ____    _OPA              28          _             _       100000               2,800,000.00
-  -  _______ _______ ______                  -         ~~~~~~2,800,000,00
10            OPA        23   47    13        125000   100000   75000                8,550,000.00
50*50      PNP      0.05                   3130260     __        _                  156,513.00  8_706_513.00
- -  I         --                                                                    8,706,513.00
11            OPA             16    6                  100000   75000                2,050,000.00
,   X   1--   1  1--                             _______ >>i    i       --        2,050,000.0
-----------                                                      __ _ __  __ _ __  __ _44,242,910.16



VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY
PRESTEA - OBUASI TRANSMISSION PROJECT
ASHANTI REGION                                              CROP VALUATION
_________  ______  __  ___ __  ADINKRA                                               .
FARM/                   SIZES                      RATES                TOTAL VALUE            AMOUNT
_ACREAGE    KIND     L    M    S   SDLG     L        M       S     SDLG    0         P               P
1 2          OPA        30   22              125000   100000                       5,950,000.00
100*50     PNP      0.11                 3130260                         _       344,328.60
=______ =______ =_____=____-___                           6,294,328.60
13            OPA       41                   125000 X                _             5,125,000.00
PL         46                     8000                                 368,000.00
237*100    CA            0.54                     1645061                         888,332.94
6,381,332.94
14            OPA            44                       100000                       4,400,000.00
=5 200*100    OPA       33    T_                   l__                =          X   __4,400,000.00
15 200*100   OPA        33                   125000                                4,125,000.00
200*100    PNP      0.45                  3130260                               1,408,617.00
=                         =     =                                          _-                      5,533,617.00
16 1          OPA       19   211 ____        125000   100000 =_   ___              4,475,000.00
112*100    PNP      0.25                 3130260                                 782,565.00
1712'6 4650OA  1-                       5,257,565.00
17 128'60/146'50 OPA         11    10      _______    100000   75000               1,850,000.00
- 128*60/146*50 PNP         0.17 0.16                 2947560 2691780                931,770.00
211*100    CA            0.48                     1645061                         789,629.28
__ ___                    _    __        _______          _______ -____________                    3,571,399.28
______                                 _______            _______ _______________      31,438,242.82









