VOLTA RIVER AUTHORATY
/ /
/ 2 / ~~E51 v. 6
December 2000
PROPO     I      TRANSMISSI LINE
/  - r- REST  -OBUASI
ENVI    ME   eL IMPACT STATEMENT
t  -e                    
Ln:   C            Tema, Ghana
In association with
Mouchel Consulting Limited, UK






LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AC       -   ALTlERNATING CURRENT
AGC      -   ASI-IANTI GOLDFIELDS COMPANY
BGL      -   130GOSO GOLD LIMITED
CGL      -   DUNKWA CONTINENTAL GOLDFIELDS LIMITED
CITES    -   CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED
SPECIES OF WILD FLORA AND FAUNA
EC       -   ENERGY COMMISSION
EGG      -   ELECTRICITY COMIPANY OF GF-IANA
EIA      -   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EIS      -   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTr STATEMENT
EMI     -    ELECTRO MAGNETIC FIELD (or ELECTRIC AND MAGNEITIC
FIELD)
EMII     -   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT* PLAN
EPIA     -   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
FAO      -   FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANISATION
GNIPC    -   Gl-lANA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
GR{IDCO  -   NAT'IONAL GRID COMPANY LT'D
I-IZ     -   I-Icrtz (Cyclcs pcr sccond)
ICAO     -   INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANISATION
ISO      -   INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS ORGANISATION
IUCN     -   INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR TH-lE CONSERVATION 01 NATURE
LVB3     -   LAND VALUATION BOARD
NED      -   NORTI-IERN ELECrRICITY DEPARTMENT
OPGW     -   COMPOSITE OPTIC FIBRE WIRE
l'OTL    -   I'PRESTEA - OBUASI T'IANSMISSION LINE
IRoW     -   IUGllT-OF-WAY
-ITAl'CO  -  T'AKORADI POWER COMIPANY L1TD.
USDA     -   UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
VALCO    -   VOLT'A ALUMINIUM COMPANY LT'D.
VRA      -   VOLT'A RIVER AU'ITIHORITYI'






Table of Contents






Table of Contents
Page
Executivc Summary                                               I
I      Introduction                                                   12
1.1   Scope of Study                                                  12
1.2   Background - Volta River Authority (VRA)                        13
1.3   Proposed Prestea - Obuasi Transmission Line (POTL)              14
1.4   Legal, Administrative and Policy Consideration                  15
2.    Dcscription of the Proposed Project                             19
2.0   Pre - Construction Activities                                   19
2.2   Constr-uction Activities                                        20
2.3   Operationlal Activitics                                         22
3      Description of the Existing Environment                        27
3.1   Bio-Physical environment                                        27
3.1. I Climate                                                        27
3.1.2  Flora                                                          31
3.1.3  Foiest Rcsources                                               32
3.1 .3a Conscrvation and Utilisation Status                           33
3.1.4  Fauna                                                          34
3.1.5  Watcr Resources                                                38
3.1.5 a Conservation                                                  39
3.1.6  Geology and Soils                                              39



3.1 .6a The Soils - Classification and General Evaluation           41
3.1.7 Mineral Resources                                             46
3.2   Socio - Economic / Cultural Environment                       47
3.2.1  Methodology                                                  48
3.2.2  Profile of the Districts in the Project Area                 49
3.2.2a Wassa West District                                          49
3.2.2b Wassa Amenfi District                                        51
3.2.2c Upper Denkyira District                                      54
3.2.2d Amansic East District                                        56
3.2.2e Adansi West District                                         59
3.3   The Existing Transmission Lines (Prestea-Obuasi)              61
3.3.1  Power Supply to Settlement along thle Route                  63
4     Significant Environmental Impacts And Proposcd Mitigation     64
4.1   Potenitial Prc-Constructional Impacts and Mitigation          66
4.2   Potential Construction Impacts and Mitigation                 68
4.3   Operation and Maintenance Impacts and Mitigation              76
4.4   Socio-Economnic /Cultural Impacts and Mitigation              81
4.5   Special Issues of Concern                                    86
4.5.1  Impact on Sacred Grove at Bogosu                             86
4.5.2 'I'hc Opon - Mansi Denyau Forest Reserve                      87
4.5.3  Electromagnletic Field (EMF) effects                         88
4.5.4  Payment of Compensation                                      95



5     Monitoring                                                     101
5.1   Constructional Phase                                           101
5.2   Waste Management                                               102
5.3   Operation and Maintenance Phase                                103
5.4   Socio-cconomic /cultural issues                                103
6     Consideration Of Altcrnatives                                   104
6.1   No-development Scenario                                         104
6.2   Up-grading Existing Facilities                                  105
6.3   Alternatives Modes of Transmission                              106
6.4   Alternative Tower Design and Material                           107
6.5   Alternative Routes                                              108
7     P'rovisional Environmental Management Plan and Training        109
7.1   Enlvironimental Management Structure                           109
7.1.1  Quality of Project Environmental Personnel                    110
7.1.2  Functionis of Project Environmental Team                      110
7.1.3  Project Environmental coordinator                             III
7.1.4 I'roject Environmenital Assistants                             112
7.2   General Health and Safety Procedures                           112
7.2.1  Safety Guidelines for Forestry Work                           113
7.2.2  Safety Guidelincs for Transmission Line Work                  113
7.3   Pollution Prevention                                           114



7.3.1 Planning and Preparation                                       114
7.3.2  Site Offices (Base Camp)                                      114
7.3.3  Storage, Handling and Disposal of Materials/Oils/Chemicals    115
7.3.4  Concrete Works                                                116
7.3.5  Silty Water Discharge                                         116
7.4   Waste Disposal                                                 117
7.5   Management of work Camp                                        117
7.6   Training Programme                                             119
7.7   Allocation of Resources for Environmental Management           119
8     Consultations - Interagency and Public Involvement             123
8.1   Public Consultaions                                            123
8.2   Concernis Raiscd                                               124
8.3   Further Consultations                                          127
8.4   Consultationis with Agencies                                   127
9      Conclusion                                                    131
iv



List of Figures
Number             Title
1-1                Map of VRA National Transmission Network
1-2                Map of Ghana Showing General Project Area
1-3                Map Showing Proposed and Original Lines
3-1                 Vcgctation and Rivers
3-2                 Soils and Road Network
3-3                 Communities, Roads and Rail Network
4 - I               Sketch Showing Levels of Vegetation Clearing
4 -2                Transmission Line through Opon - Mansi Forest Reserve
4 -3                Transmission Line through Denyau Forest Reserve
1.4                Reduction in EMF with distance for different EMF Emitters
6-1                 Map of Existing OPGW Network
6-2                 Map of Future OPGW Network
7-1                 Organisational Chart, Department of Real and Estate Environmiiienit
7-2                 Organisational Chart, Proposed Project Environmental Tcam
v






List of Tables
Number             Title
3-la               Average Monthly Rainfall at Axim
3-l b              Average Monthly Rainfall at Bogosu
3-IC               Average Monthly Rainfall at Kumasi
3-1 d              Average Monthly Temperature at Axim
3-Ie               Average Monthly Temperature at Bogosu
3-1 f              Average Monthly Temperature at Kumasi
3-ig               Average Monthly Relative Humidity at Axim
3-lhi              Average Monthly Relative H-lumidity at Bogosu
'3-1 i             Avcrage Montlhly Relative Hlumidity at Kumasi
3-2a               Ecological Signiificance and Conservationi Status Ratings
3-2b               Summary of Conservation Status of Species in the Project Area
3-2c               Summary of Ecological Guilds/ Signiificanec of Species in Projcct
Arca.
3.3                List of Fauna in Project Area and their Conservationi Status
3r.4               List of Districts and Communities in Project Area
3.5                Details of Existing Transmission Line Segments (Prestea - Obuasi)
4.1                Impact Identification Matrix
4.2                Indicative values of Magnetic Fields
4.3                Maximum Electric and Magnetic Fields below Power Lincs
vi






List of Annexes
Number                    Title
Annex I                   Terms of Reference / Relevant Regulations
Annex 2                   Extracts, VRA Specifications
Annex 3                   Baseline Data
Annex 4                   Chemicals Data / EMF Research
Annex 5                   Extracts of Project Fcasibility
Annex 6                   Consultations
Annicx 7                  Plates
vii






Executive Summary






I'RESTIA-OIUIASI IRANSMISSIONI.INE - I:INAI. I:IS
Executive Summary
The Volta River Authority (VRA), proposes to construct a new 161 KV Power Transmission
Line from Prestea in the Western Region to Obuasi in the Ashanti Region in order to enhance the
power carrying capacity of the transmission network in the western segment of Ghana.
Under the provisions of the Ghana Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652),
erection of Power Transmission Lines falls under the catcgory of Environmenlally Critical
Projects for whichi EIA is mandatory; the proposed project has thcrefore been duly registered
with the EPA. Scoping for the EIA has already been carried out and the Terms of Reference for
thc EIA study have been agreed with the EPA.
T-his chapter is a non-tecirnical summary of the main components of the Environmenital Impact
Statjllemet, with emphasis on the main significant impacts and proposed   mitigation
rccommendationis.
*  llackground - Volta Rivcr Authority (VRA)
Thc VRA was established in 1961 and is engaged in the business of generation, transmiissioni and
distribution of electricity in Glhana. The Authority also supplies power to neighbouring utilities
in La Cote d'lvoirc, Bcniin and Togo.
T[Lie VRA owns and opcrates a countrywide transmission systcm for the distributioni of bulk
electric power in Ghana. The system was first commissioned in 1965 along withl thle Akosombo
I lydroclctric Gcncrationl Plant. The Authority also supplies all the bulk consumrcs of electrical
power in Ghania and domestic consumers in the northerni sector of the counlry.
* Proposed Prestea-Obuasi Transmission Line (POTL).
VRA proposes to expand the Westcrn segment of the existing transmission nletwork by
constructing an additional line from Prestea to Obuasi.
Rcl,hI - MouLghcN/VRA/1O IJULIS          I



PRESTIEA-01lASI lTRANSMISSION lINE: - FINAL. I.IS
This additional line is required in order to provide stability in the whole transmission network
which is currently experiencing severe stresses on some major segments, even under normal
operational conditions. System studies have revealed that the most vulnerable segiments are along
the western sector involving Prestea, Bogoso, New Obuasi and Obuasi. The systems studies
further revealed that the loss of the Prestea-Bogoso segment will lead to total collapse of the
whole national system.
This sector is significant not only for the economic importance of the increasing mining activities
in the area but also because the current additions to the country's power generation capacity arc
both in the Western Region. These are the expansion of the Takoradi Generating station at
Aboadze to 600 MW and the new GNPC 140 MW Plant to be stationed at Effasu. In addition,
during the current retrofit of the Akosombo Hydroelectric plant, the additional power supply
requirements are either provided from Aboadze or imported from La Cote d'lvoire and.passes
along the western segment.
* Legal and Policy Considerations
The various legal and policy issues affecting the implementation of the project have been
reviewed. The siginificanit legislation concerned are:
*  Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652),
*  Energy Commission Act, 1997 (Act 541),
*  Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46),
*  Lands Statutory Wayleaves Act, 1963 (Act 186),
*  Ghania Land Policy, 1999
*  Volta River Authority (Transmission Line Protection) Regulations, 1967 (LI 542),
*  World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment",
Ihe implicalions of these regulationls on the acquisition of the right-of-way (RoW) are
discussed and forms the basis of subsequent evaluation of aspects of the impacts on the socio-
economlilc/cultural environment regarding loss of land use.
Relast - Mouclicl/VRA/I'OTI JEIS         2



I'RESI I  A-Oi1ASI I RANSMISSION LINI. - I:INAI. I:IS
With regard to policy issues, the ongoing Power Sector Reforms have been considered. In lhe
main, the thrust of the reforms is to encourage private sector participation in the generation,
transmission and distribution of electric power in Ghana.
As part of this process, VRA is to be transformed into a proposed Volta River Authority (VRA)
Holding Company comprising of various strategic business units, among them is the National
Grid Company Ltd. (GRIDCO), which has been registered to take over the transillission and load
dispatch assets of the Authority and to ultimately operate as the indepenidenlt Electric
Transmission Utility.  It is envisaged that the new transmission line will form part of the
GRIDCO assets.
* Dcscription of Proposed Dcvclopmcnts
A description of the proposed development activities is given in sufficient detail as is consistent
with environmental assessment, highlighting those aspects that poiit to potential environmenltal
signiificanicc.
Generally, the proposed route will run in parallel with the existing line at a distance of
approximately 30 m (100 ft) to the West. There are proposed diversions in way of Bogoso and
Dunkwa to avoid the urban settlements.
T'he components of the proposed project that are discussed include the delivery to site, erection,
tcsting and commissioninig of a 110 km 161 kV transmission line, with a 110 km optic fibrc
conductor (OPGW) ih place of one shield wire, between Prestea and Obuasi. Minor civil works
rclatcd to modificationis at thc Obuasi substation and at Prcstea substation to accommodate liie
tcri iniations arc also included.
Thlc dcscription covcrs thc various prc-conistructioin, constructioni, opcralion and maiiltcianicc
activities. The pre-construction activities include route survey, tower spottingl and acquisition ol
tihc necessary RoW.
Rclast - Mouchicl/VRA/1l'o0lTLS           3



PRI:SrIl :A-O01llASI lTRIANSMISSION I.INI -- I:INAI l.lS
Ihlie constructioln activitics involvc various levels of vegetatiol clearing to stanidaids prcscribed
by VRA. The othcr activities are excavation of tower foundations, erection of towers and
str-inginig of lines. The substation expansion works are also included.
On1cC the line is in plaec and transmitting power, the main operational activities arc mostly tliose
related to the maintenance of the lines, towers, accessories and the RoW  and these are also
discussed in detail.
Thc Existing Environmcnt
The proposed Prestea - Obuasi Transmission Line project (POTL) is a "linear" project withiin a
relatively narrow corridor (up to 100 ft or 30 m), traversing a wide area of influence with diverse
characteristics. The proposed line is estimated to extend over a total distance of about 1 10 kim,
and lies roughly between longitude 2° 00" and 2° 30" and latitude 50 40" and 6° 15".
The existing environmenit within the project area is discussed under 2 main headings covering
thlc bio-phiysical cinivioieilt and the socio-economilic/cultural environment.
The section onl the bio-physical environilmenit gives an accouit of the climate and tihe natural
resources occurring in the project area. It records the general baseline conditions and assesses tihe
si-ltzihcance and value of the natural resources of the area. The major natural resouices are the
Flora. FauLia, Folrest resources, Water resources, Soils and Mineral resourecs.
Climate: The climate in the project area is generally characterized by a bi-modal higih rainfall,
sCparatcd by two dry spells. Tliese climatic conditions are broughit about by two air masses - the
I larmattan and soutil-west Monsoon.
D)ata lor rainlfall, temperature and relative hiumidity from weather stations at Kumasi (northi end),
Bo3goso (mid-portioni) and Axim (southi end) are depicted to represenlt tile general project area
colidtiolils.
WIal; - MoucllcI/VRA/I'O0 IJEIS             4



PRES1Tl-A-O01UASI TIRANSMISSION LINI - FINAL I1IS
Flora and Forest resources: The proposed line passes through Wet Evergreen, Moist Evergreen
and Moist Semi-deciduous south-east subtype forests. With the exception of a short stretch that
runs through the Denyau shelter belt and Opon-Mansi forest reserves, thc liie passes through
fanr lands, farm re-growth, secondary forest, freshwater swamp and gallery forests. A sacred
grove or shrine (about 0.5 hectare in size) is located just at the southern outskirts of Bogoso.
From Prestea to Bogoso, the vegetation encountered is largely secondary forest, secondary
thicket, farm re-growth, farm land and marshes/freshwater swamp. The farml re-growths havc
abandoned cassava, shrubs. Cash crop plantations in the area includc cocoa, rubbcr, oil pailm and
coconut pailm. The major food crops farmed are maizc, cassava and plantain. The freshwater
swamps are dominated by raphia palm while the gallery/river banks are domiiiated by bamboo.
From  Bogoso to Obuasi, the vegetationl is largely secondary forest, secondary thickets,
marsh/freshiwater swamlip, farms and farm re-growths. Parts of the Opon-Mansi and Denyau
forest rcserves are located within the RoW.  The secondary forest is matured with some trees
30 m and above in height, with closed canopy.
A detailed list of the flora in the area, (including thosc in the forest reserves) and their current
conservation status is presentcd in Annex 3-1 to 3-3.
Fauna: The faunal species in the area arc typical forest species including insects (butterflics,
bces), amphibianis (frogs), reptiles (lizards, snakes), birds (cattic egrct, sparrow) and mammals
(squirrel, monkleys).
A detailcd faunal list with indications of current conservation significanicc is preseiited in Anincx
3J-4.
Watcr resources: The water resources include available rainwater, surface and ground water
rcsources. The major river system in the area is the Ankobra, with a catchliient of 8,550 sq. kiii.
Its major tributaries in the projcct area include Opon, Mansi and Bogo.
RO"cId - Moticihc/VRA/10T(ULJEIS         5



PRESTLA-013UASI T RANSMISSION LINtI - IINAI. .IS
Thc other major river is Pra River with a catchmnent of somc 23,310 sq. km. Major tributaries of
the Pra river in the area include the River Offin and River Gyimi.
Tlec project lies within the strata that can yield ground water betwecn 2,000-3,000 gallons per
hour. However the quantities are such that they can only be sufficient for small to medium size
communities.
Gcology and Soils: A detailed discussion of the geology and soils in the area is given. The line
traverses through an area under the Birriman, Tarkwaian and Granitic geological rock formiationi.
The altitude of the area ranges between 150 m to 300 m witlh the proposed sites for the pylons
located mostly around the summits of the uplands.
Ihlic major soil groups occurriig within the area as classified under thc Ghaniaiani systemis, arc
Oxysols, Forest Ochrosols and the Forest Ochrosols-Oxysols intergrades. Soils occurring around
the summits of uplands within tlhe Dunkwa area belong to thie Forest Ochrosols-Oxysols
iltcrgrades. Thcsc soils are susccptibic to leaching. However, rich, riverine soils from River
Olfin arc typical of thc lowlands. An cxtensive form of alluvial soils were idcntificd withill the
Opponi valley arca.
Nlincral rcsources: Mineral orcs are found in the Tarkwaian and Birrimian series. Thle
Tarkwaian series beig the maini sources of gold in Gliana occurs as both primary and seconidary
orcs. Thlc gold also occurs in conglomerates and blanket series.
\Vitllin the project area apart from small-scale gold wiiners (galamsey operators), gold is mincd
undcrgrounld and on thle surface with major operators at IPrestca, Bogoso, Dunkwa, Anyanfuri
alnd Obuasi. Iron ore occurs in the project arca at Opon-Mansi.
Rclitst - Moucldci/VRAjI'OTUEIS           6



PRI:SrI l.A-OlIL)ASI I I1ANSMISSION LiNI: - I INAI. I:IS
Socio-cconomnic/cultural  cnvironmncnt:  The  section  on  the   socio-economic/cultural
environment describes the conditions within the settlements found along the proposed route.
Thirty-six (36) communities have been identified as falling within the area of influenice to be
affected by the project. These communities are located in five Districts and three Regions.
The socio-economic profiles of all the five districts, derived from District Developmelit Plans
(1995-2000) provided by the respective District Assemblies, are presented under the followving
hlcadings:
*  Demographic characteristics - Population, Ethnicity and Religion
* Social development - Education, Health and Water resources
*  Economic Development - Agriculture, Manufacturing and Processing, Mininig etc
Generally, it was found that agriculture and mining are the main sources of income in all the
districts. Many of the people have moved into the urban areas in search of jobs in mining and
miniglg related activitics. Soimie people have also moved into the districts fromii otlihe parts of
Ghania in searchl ofjob opportunities fiom tile mllilncs.
Aglricultur-e contilues to thrive in the area due to the rains and most of the rural dwellers subsist
on farminlg. Some of the important national cash crops such as cocoa and oil pailm are cultivated
cxicilsively in the area. Popular local foodstuff likc plantain, cassava and maize are also vciy
coIllInmoIn.
Durling the study, 303 persons whiose lands, farms or structures fall within the general route and
RoW, were identified as beiiig directly affected by the project. They were interviewed using two
scis ol questioninaire and their responses were collated. The detailed lists of the affected persons,
questioniliaire and analysis of the findings whicih form part of the baseline, are presented in
Anncx 3-5 to 3-7.
Comimlunity properties identified were 3 shrines at Asikuma, Damang and Peelinelso and a
cemiietery at Ayensukromii.
Rclisl - Mouchci/VRA/i'OTUEIIS             7



PRILSI 1A-)13lJASI I RANSMISSIO N l.NI - FINAL I IS
Significant Impacts and Proposed Mitigation
The potential environmental effects that would occur from the implementatioll of the POTL
project are discussed in 3 parts. Part I describes the pre-construction and constructioni activities
and the potential impacts arising from them, mainly on the bio-physical environment, and
recommends mitigation measures that should be adopted to minimise or eliminate the impacts
where possible. The impacts from operation and maintenance activities are also covered.
Thl ideltiFicd impacts fromil constructioni include loss of land use, loss of crops, felliig ol trees.
pollutioni of surface and ground water sources and soil erosion. Mitigation for loss of land use
and crops will be by payment of adequate and fair compensationi and will be done in line with
World Bank policy which requires that all land holders, including explicitly those holding under
vabious forms of traditional or customary tenure, are to be compensated for loss of the land.
Felling of trees cannot be avoided but will be kept to the barest minimum. Pollution of water
resources will be checked with recommended controls. Erosion of exposed soil surfaces may be
dlillicul to control in the initial stages but re-growth of graded areas with adequate cover will be
undlertakeil once construction is completed in any area. Faunal dispersion will be limiled as not
maniy were found withini the area.
Operationi and mainiteinanice impacts are mainly related to safety hazards associated witil
transferring power along overilead lines. People who carry out the mainteniance and othiers who
lind thiemilseives close to the lines may be exposed to danger when faults occur. Public/
occupational healtil and safety will be mitigated by enforcing RoW restrictions. Compliance with
all recommniliided safety procedures during maintenanice will also be enfoiced.
leinig a linearl project, the POTL is expected to havc diverse socio-economilic/cultural impacts
as it traverscs many settiemenits. Part 2 discusscs the expected impacts on the socio-
econ10i111/CLItural environilimeint and appropriate mitigationl wheie feasibie.
Thle population sizes, ethniic and genider distribution within the communities are not expected to
be altered by thc project as the total number of workers required will be only about 200 of whicih
R&ILst - MouchelI/VRA/MOTIJUEIS          8



PRFESTEA-Oi3LJASI TRANSMISSION lNIN - FINAI. LIS
120-140 are expccted to be employed locally from within thc comimiunitics. Somc workers will
come from other parts of Ghana.
The main impacts the social environment are expected to be loss of land use and its
consequential loss of income which is unavoidable as the RoW (and subsequent restrictions) is
required for safety of both the lines and the people. Mitigation by payment of adequate and fair
compensation will be ensured. The impacts on the shrines and the cemetery will be avoided by
alternative tower spotting/diversions in those specific areas as they are only few in number.
Finally, special issues of concern related to implementation of the project, such as the Bogoso
sacred grove, the forest reserves, EMF effects and concerns about the payment of compensation
whicih require more clarification are discussed in Part 3 under "Special Issues of Concerin".
EMF and its effcct on human health are discussed in detail. Available rcsearch cvidcnce is
inconclusive as to EMF causing diseases such as cancer. In this regard, the issue of public
cducation Oni EMF will be handled cautiously.
Thc-VRA's mode of payment of compensation (similar to other government agencies) raises
major concerns among the people. It is accepted that a more participatory approach, involving
the District Assemblies, will be used and payments made promptly to minimise the effects oni the
rLi-al folks who are mostly poor.
. Monitoring
A monlitorinig programimiic is presentcd to enabic verification of the levels of the predicted
impacts and also to adjust mitigation measures where found necessary. The criteria to be
monioltored are presented in a comprehensive list covering the following:
*  ConstrucLtioll phasc - transportation, civil works, vcgetation clcaring etc.
*  Wastc managemilent - bush burning, handling of chemical wastes etc.
*  Operation and mainiteniance phase - use of herbicides, accident records etc
Relast - MouchlL'/VRA/1'OTUIAS          9



PRESTIA-OIIIJASI TItANSMISSION lNIE - FINAL. EIS
*  Socio-economic and cultural issues - assessment and payment of compensation, loss of land
etc.
* Consideration of Altcrnatives
Detailed discussion on the various project alternatives are presented under the following
headings:
*  "No-devclopment Scenario"
*  Upgrading existing facilities - doubling the circuits
*  Alternative modes of transmission - using underground cables
*  Alterative tower designls and alternative materials - using wood or concrete
*  Alternative routes
These options are all evaluated in the discussions. The benefits to be derived from the use of
optic fibrc wire in place of one of the shield wires to facilitate the communication services are
also discussed.
* Environmental Management
A  provisional plan  for managing the environmental issues arising   from  the project
imlpleimienitationl is provided. The first part proposes a management structurc based on ISO 14000
guidelines and the second part outlines general procedures to safeguard healtlh, safety and the
cElvironnment.
Considerable emplhasis is placed on the proccdures already adopted by VRA from experience
gainied in over 35 years of operations and enshrined in the VRA Corporate Safety Rules (1993).
Additional guidelines on issues such as pollution, storage of materials and safe hanidlinig of
concretc are also provided.
Relcst - Mouchcl/VRA/MIO1 IJEIS           10



I'RIESTEiA-013UASI lTRANSMISSION L.INE - FINAL. [IS
* Consultations
Consultations held with the public and various organizations and relevant government agencies
are presented and discussed. Some of the concerns raised through these consultations such as
those emanating from compensation payment have been addressed in the EIS.
Other issues relating to diversions of the line to avoid concessions and cultural/religious
properties are still being discussed in on-going consultations
* Conclusion
On the whole, it is determined that the proposed Prestea - Obuasi Transmission Line is vital for
the stability and integrity of the entire national transmission network.
Thc expected impacts of the project on the environment are manageable. In particular there will
not be any need for resettlement. Minor alterations in tower spotting will be carried out to avoid
thlc few cultural/religious structures whicih may fall within the RoW. The constructional impacts
will mostly be of limited duration and careful monitoring will be used to control sensitive issues
like pollution of water sources.
It is therefore required that the project be duly approved to enable early commenicemiient and to
forestall further problems on the national transmission network.
Rcldst - MouchclN/RAOTUJEIS                I I






Chapter 1
Introduction






I'llI;S'l:A-O'§IJASI 'I'RANSMISSI()N I.INI.- I:INAI l:IS
1.)   INTRODUCTION
The Volta River Authority (VRA), proposes to construct a new 161 KV Power Transmission
Linie from Prestea in the Western Region to Obuasi in the Ashanti Region in order to enhanice the
power carrying capacity of the transmission network in the Western Corridor of Ghana.
In compliance with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act, 1994 (Act 490), and in
furtherance to its Corporate Policy on Environment, which seeks to ensure the welfare of people
adversely affected by its operations as well as assist in the sustainable development wilthii the
environment in which it operates, VRA  intends to carry out an Environmllenltal Impact
Assessment (EIA) for the proposed project.
Furtlhermore, under the provisions of the Ghana Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999
(LI 1652), erection of Power Transmission Lines falls under the category of Environmilcnitally
Critical Projects for which EIA is mandatory; the proposed project has therefore been duly
registered witlh the EPA.
1.1   Scope of Study
Ref ast Ltd. (Marine, Environimental and Quality Consultants) in association with Mouchel
Consultinig Ltd of the UK, have been engaged by VRA to undertake the EIA assignmenlt.
From the Scopilg carried out, the proposed Terms of Reference (see AnnexIl) for the EIA was
submiiitted to the EPA and this was duly accepted witlh additions, and forms the basis of this
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
Thc EIS is prescnted in the format prescribed by the Ghana EIA Procedures and generally
lollows the pattern prescribed by the World Bank. The remaining sections of this Chapter present
a brief background to the project and establishes the need for the project. This is followed by
discussions on the various Legal, Administrative and Policy issues that affect the illplementation
ol the project.
RI.sa - MouchNcl/vRAPoT0JE--IS          12



PRESTEA-013llASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Chapter 2 is a description of the various components of the project activities that are expected to
be carried out with sufficient details on those aspects that have potential environmenital impact.
The baseline environmental conditions are described in Chapter 3 and this covers both the bio-
phiysical and socio-economic/cultural components. In Chapter 4, the significant environmental
impacts arising from the various project activities are discussed and appropriate mitigation
measures prescribed, where possible. Chapter 5 prescribes a monitoring plan to be used to verify
the predicted impacts and ensure compliance with recommended mitigation procedures.
A discussion of the consideration of the various project alternatives is presented in Chapter 6.
The provisional Environmental Management Plan with a component on Training is covered in
Chapter 7.
Finally, the Conclusion in Chapter 9 is preceded by a discussion on various public consultations
in Chapter 8.
1.2   Background - Volta River Authority (VRA)
Tlie Volta River Authority (VRA) was established in 1961, as a public owned utility by the Volta
Rivcr Development Act, 1961 (Act 46). It is engaged in the business of generation, transmission
and distributionl of clectricity in Ghania. Thie Autlhority also supplies power to neighbourinig
utilities in La Cote d'lvoirc, Benin and Togo.
Currncitly, VRA operates with a total installed generation capacity of over 1,300 MW made up of
thc l-olloxvilng ulnits:
*  Akosombo Generating Station    -      Hydro       -     912 MW
*  Kpong Generating Station       -      Hydro       -     160 MW
*  Tema Generating Station        -      Diesel      -      30 MW
*  Takoradi Power Station         -      Themnal     -     330 MW
The Takoradi Power Station is being further upgraded to 600 MW.
Rclai - MoucihcI/VRA/i'OTrUE1S          13



PRESTEA-OBUASI 'lTRANSMISSION LINIE- I:INAI. EIS
The VRA owns and operates a countrywide transmission system for the distribution of bulk
electric power in Ghana. This transmission network is made up of 35 substations with about
4,000 circuit km of transmission lines (see Fig. 1-1). The transmission grid is also interconniected
to Togo and Benin (since 1972) and to La Cote d'lvoire (in 1983).
The Authority supplies all the bulk-electric power to the majot consumers of electrical power in
Glhana. These include the Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG), the Volta Aluminum Company
(VALCO), mining companies and some heavy industries in Tema.
Since 1987, VRA, through its Northern Electricity Department (NED), has also been responsible
for the distribution of electricity to domestic and industrial consumers over the Northern sector
of Ghana covering Brong Ahafo, Northern, Upper West and Upper East Region.
1.3   Proposed Prcstca-Obuasi Transmission Linc (POTL).
VRA proposes to expand the Western segment of the existing transmission network by
constructinig an additional line fronn Prestea to Obuasi (see Fig. 1-2 and 1-3). The proposed linc
will enhlance thc transfer of increased power generated from the Takoradi Thermal Power Plant
to thle mining and industrial sectors in Western and Ashanti Regions and beyond.
Additionally, this new line is required so as to improve the reliability of the entire VRA
tranismiiission network, whichl currently faces major operational constraints. Tlhe existinLg
tranismissioni network has in recent times been severely stressed, with some sections being
ovcrloaded evcn during normal operations.
W'itlin the existing network, the two line segments which tend to experiencc the most critical
ovcrloads during normal operations are:
I . Prestea-Bogoso-Dunikwa-New Obuasi
2. New Obuasi-Obuasi
RcI.isl - MouicN/VRA/POTUIJDIS           14



PRESTEA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
System planning studies indicate that a significant load growth potential exists in the Western
part of the country mainly due to the mining load and the economic significance of the mines.
The transmission network supplying these areas must therefore have a high level of reliability.
Thie Western segment is also key to facilitating power transfers between Ghana and the
neighbouring countries of La Cote d'lvoire, Togo and Benin and a high level of reliability at this
section must be ensured.
Furthermore, with the ongoing retrofit of the Akosombo hydro plant, power transfers on the
Prestea-Obuasi line have increased substantially as shortfalls are being met by the Takoradi
Thermal Power Plant and imports from Cote d'lvoire.
1.4   Legal, Administrative and Policy Considerations
The relevant policies, and the regulatory conditions that must be considered for the successful
im1plcmenetation of tlle project, including the requirements by co-financicrs (World Bank etc)
were assembled and reviewed as part of the Scoping process and consultations with the relevant
agencies have been held.
Those considered include:
*  Environmiiiental Protection Agency, Act 1994 (Act 490),
*  Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652),
*  Energy Commission Act, 1997 (Act 541),
*  Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46),
*  Lands (Statutory Waylcaves) Act, 1963 (Act 186),
*  Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 334),
*  Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) (Amendment) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 346),
*  The Land Policy, 1999.
*  Volta River Authority (Transmissioni Line Protection) Regulations, 1967 (Li 542),
*  World Bank's Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment",
*  World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement",
Rclast - MouchcIIVRMAIO0TJEIS           15



VIRFSTI.A-OIIUASI l RANSMISSION LlNI: - I INAI. FIS
Thc followinig paragraphs higlhliglht key elements of these regulations and policies.
As stated earlier, the provisions of the Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652)
mandate that EIA should be carried out for Power Transmission line projects. The approved EIA
will form the basis for the issuing of an Environmental Permit for the project to commence. Thc
Regulations also require the preparation and submission of an Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) witlhin 18 months of commencement of operations.
The Energy Commission (EC), set up under the Energy Commission Act, 1997 (Act 541), has
responsibility for the regulation, management, development and utilization of energy resources
in Ghana. The Act mandates the EC to promulgate rules, standards and procedures and grant
liccnses for the transmission, wholesale supply, distribution and sale of electricity and other
services in the energy sector.
The VRA is provisionally licensed by the Commission as a service providcr. Consultationis with
the EC revealed that the provisions of the Commission's PUBLIC NOTICES EC. N. 001 and
003, rcquirc VRA to register tlle proposed project with the Commission and obtaini a permit prior
to commenccement of the project. The regulations further stipulate that the application for
registration should include:
*  Rclevanit drawings for the project
*  Appropriate Environmental Assessment Report approved by the EPA
*  Documentation covering title or lease of land occupied by the project
Oiicc the routc for the transmission line has been identified, it is the responsibility of VRA to
acquire the right-of-way (RoW) in the project area for the smooth implementationi and operation
of the POTL. Section 12 of The Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46), empowers VRA
to acquire land for constructling and operating transmission systems.
Thc acquisition of the RoW  will be carried out under the provisions of the Lands (Statutory
Wayleaves) Act, 1963 (Act 186), which provides for the acquisition of wayleaves and easements.
RIt a% - MoucheIN/ViA/1 ()10Y IiIS       16



I'RESTEA-OBIJASI TRANSMISSION INI[ - I:lNAI. HIS
T his will be done witlh due consultations with the District Assemblies and commiiunities wltlihin
the project's sphere of influence. Both section 12 of Act 46 and Section 6 of Act 186 provide for
compensation payments and VRA will be responsible for addressing all matters relating to
compensation. In practice, VRA compensates for structures that have to be demolished and crops
that will be destroyed at the time of construction.
A major consideration in selecting the proposed route, has been the need to avoid resettlemcnt
and minimize destruction of property and farms. Therefore, as much as possible, the new route
will run very close (within 100ft or 30 m) to the existing line. Two major diversions are proposed
in way of the urban settlements of Bogoso and Dunkwa to avoid populated areas (see Fig. 1-3).
No structures are expected to be demolished for the construction of the POTL and the owners of
farms and crops likely to be affected by the project have been duly identified. Details of mode of
compensation payment are addressed under "Special Issues" in Chapter 4 (Impacts and
Mitigation).
The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 334), spells out the regulations
covering .the acquisition of wayleaves under Act 186.  The procedure for applying for
compensationi is duly outlined in L.I. 334, witlh a sample form provided for the use of potenitial
applicants. Compensation may be claimed for damages caused by survey works as well as
damages arising from actual site works. In addition, L.I. 346, which is an amendment of L.I. 334,
outlilles thc procedure for appealing against compensation awards.
Thc Ghana Land Plolicy, 1999 provides guidelines and policy actions for the various forms of
land use - agricultural, forestry, extractive, human settlement, infrastructure etc. These are aimed
at-cinliancillg conservation of environmental quality, preserving optioins for the present and future
ocincrations and securing human sustenance.
Amonig the key objectives of the Land policy which are of relevance to the POTL project are:
* Protection of the rights of landowners
Rcla'm - MouchcI/VRA/I'O0TIJI IS       17



PRESTLA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL US
*  Ensurinig payment, within reasonable time, of fair and adequate compelnsatioll for land
acquired
* Promoting community participation and public awareness at all levels in sustainable land
management.
The Volta River Development Act 1961, (Act 46) section 33, empowers VRA to enact
regulations to facilitate its activities. In furtherance to this, The Volta River Authority
(Transmission Line Protection) Regulations, 1967 (Li 542) was enacted to provide security for
VRA transmissioni lines and ensure public safety.
The LI 542 defines "trantsmissiont line rig/it-of-way " to include the area extending for a distance
of fifty feet (approx. 16 m) on each side from the centre line of the transmission towers. This
regulation prohibits/restricts a number of activities in the RoW including mining, construction of
buildings, cultivation and farming.
With regard to Policy issues, consultations have been held with the Encrgy Commission and the
Ministry of Mines and Energy on issues relating to Government Policies and the ongoing Power
Sector Reforms. In the main, the thrust of the reforms is to encourage private sector participation
in the generation, transmission and distribution of electric power in Ghana.
As part of this process, VRA is to be transfonned into a proposed Volta River Authority (VRA)
llolding Company comprising of various units. VRA has registered the Takoradi Power
Company Ltd. (TAPCO), to handle the thermal power generation assets at the Aboadze complcx.
Similarly, the National Grid Company Ltd. (GRIDCO) has been registered to take over the
tr-anismiiission and load dispatch assets of the Authority and to ultimately operate as the
independent Electric Transmission Utility. It is envisaged that the new transmission line will
form part of the GRIDCO assets.
RCI'I - Mouich/VRA/POL/lEIS             18






Chapter 2
Description of
Proposed Project






BURKINA FASO
LAWRk/                 UPPERb N
UPPE       ,WESTgST- 
WA ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~~~~~~~ KM WM> v
WA              (G                    D ACHE"
IOUL                                     E N .EW DR
(681--     ~~~NORiEEWRN ra ON.       F SAhZ
_o 0          ~~~~~T         K       W H u
l       79X ~~~~~IAMALE  ;/L I>IN<W!
tJ4.5@        / ~~~~~161D KV       J CJG
7 / h sANG                         K Z,Q8M
L1       |DMNCi        j                       L SU
\ SOLE                               N EE _  AcHi
>l                                             R F \4D A*  >§ 
<1 ERaU 0 xv -- 
/  stsf <-  \ ~~ASFUWll REGt10       KP;m
V                _  . > t urX \ v *^ \-  
>    sro     B  ~~~KONw        __ 
A SAiS          OBUASI ." ST TAFO ONEB \
~~~~~~~~~~~AKW fATIA - 
\EGION      /'P
30         aRSTEA i     C,ENMkA REGIO 1
n_  sC^            L~~~~~E EOSnNGWHDR
<_/viuM   vAW          _EBa~~~~~~~~~~DSIING 161 KINUE
%A  '             ' ~~~~~~~~~EASM 34.5KV UNE
-uY  ,,§,        ,  ~~~~~~~~EXSIING 69 KV UNE
|  ~ ~~~  1 1 ~~~~~' E)CdNG ~VRA TR~IS90N~
S__ _                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NETWORK IN GANA



BURKINA FASO
(              1 ~~~~UPPER EAST  
UPPER WEST -X
NORTHERN REGION.
__                                             IPRJEC AI
GAAFOREN                AS                 R E 
\ -- ,-| EAASHNNMRREGN N
a     t         C~~~WENRAl  REGION/
D ,)NKWA        
PROPO£FD UN-
e= _  _                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMECT AE
Flg 1-2               AND OPOSP0ED UJNE



; OBUASI SUBSTATION
NEW OBUASI SUBSTAION
DUNKWA SUBSTATION
BOGOSO SUBSTATION
11    ~    ~PRESTEA -OBUASI
// ~~NEW & OLD EXISTING LINE ROUTE MAP
PRESTEA SUBSWO10.               PROPOSED 161 KV
LINE ROUTE
EXISTING 161 KV
Fig 13        LINE ROUTE



PRFSTI:A-O03UASI TRANSMISSION lINiF - FINAL 11';
2.0    DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
The aspects of the proposed project that will be discussed here include the delivery to site,
erection, testing and commissioning of:
* a 110 km 161 kV transmission line, with a 110 km optic fibre conductor (OPGW) in
place of one shield wire, between Prestea and Obuasi.
and minor civil works related to:
* modifications at the Obuasi substation and at Prestea substation to accommodate line.
terminations.
Generally, the proposed route will run in parallel witl) the existing line at a distance of
approximately 32 m (100 ft) to the West as shown in Fig. 1-3.
In line with current practice, the project will involve the erection of steel transmissioni towers
along the route, whicih is estimated to be about 110 km in length. VRA has specified that the
transimiissioni line designs that were approved under the Northern Electrification and System
RIcinfolrccnicnt P'roject be adopted as the standard for the new transmission linies. The heigiht of
tihc towers will be such as to provide a minimum of 7.5 - 8 m clearance between the lines and the
giound. Typically, as with the existing system, the towers will be about 30 - 35 m (100 ft) highi.
2.1   1're-Construction Activities
T'hc main pre-construction activities cover the following:
* Linc IRoutc Survey - VRA has engaged Surveyors to carry out a convenitionlal survey of
route and profile of the proposed route. Wherever possible, the Surveyors have used
existing maintenanice routes (for the existing line) to reach the proposed routes, however
in certain areas, they have had to clear some vegetation (including some crops) by
slashilig, in order to gain access to the route and for installiig the pegs. The project
contractor will be required to carry out additional survey to verify the route.
Rclast - MouchcI/VRA/1lO0TJEIS           19



PRl.STEA-O01lJASI lTRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL I-IS
Tower Spotting - VRA will determine the specific sites for locating the individual
towers based on various criteria including information gathered during this
Environmental Impact Assessment. From observations of the existing line, it is obvious
that in most cases, the towers will be located at or near thc summits of the uplands to
maximise the clearance between the lines and the ground.
2.2    Construction Activities
Fhc project will bc executed by a contractor to be engaged by VRA. The key features of the
construction activities are outlined below. Those aspects of the activities that give rise to
environmental concerns will be discussed in further detail in chapter 4.
*  Construction Access Track - at various selected points along the proposed route,
construction access tracks of approximately 3.5 m width (linking from public roads) will
be cleared to enable plant and machinery to be transported to the spots chosen for
erecting the towers. These tracks will be clcared completely of all trees, stumps, scrub
and vegetationi.
*  Transporting of machincry and cquipment to site - heavy-duty trucks will be used to
transport construction machinery and tower members/accessories, tilrouglh the public
roads and along the access tracks, to the erecting points.
*  Clearing the Right-of-Way (RoW) - the contract specifies that all tall trees and scrub
witlliln a distance of 15 m on either side of the centreline of the transmiissioln line (i.e.
approx 30 m wide area) shall be cut down to a heighit of not more thanl 1.25 m above
grounld. In addition any tall trees outside the RoW, but of such heiglht as could fall witlhin
2 Iml of the conductors, shall also be felled.
*  Clearing of the tower track - for the purpose of erccting the towcrs and for subsequcnt
operation and maintenance, a tower corridor track of approximately 2.5 - 3 m width, will
be cleared under the towers, as far as is practicable.
Itchisl - MouchcI/VNRA/PI'IJEIS           20



PRFISTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINL - FINAL F'IS
The specifications require the removal of all tree stumps and roots from this track leaving
a graded path to permit the transit of "Land Rover", "Unimog" or other similar 4-wheelcd
drive light vehicles for patrol and maintenance purposes.
*  Clearing and Excavating for tower foundations - at selected spots for mounting the
towers, the tower corridor track will be widened further to accommodate the tower pads
or foundations. The area to be cleared will cover an area equal to the dimensions of the
tower base (about 5 m square) plus an additional 2 m Qn each side. Stumps in the tower
site area shall not project more than 10 cm above ground. The tower foundations will
consist of concrete footings of the "pad and chimney" type (see Plate 2 Annex 4).
Excavation for the foundations will depend on the soil type at the selected spot but will
usually be between 2 - 3 m deep. The specifications provide design parameters for three
classes of soil namely, Type A (poor soil - swampy areas), Type B (good soil) and Type
C (unfractured rock). The ground surface at each tower site shall be graded to provide
drainage away from the tower legs. Where necessary (particularly on sidehills), terracing,
cribbing or riprap may be used to provide protection for tower foundations.
*  Erection of towcrs - With an average span of about 300 - 400 m between towers, this
project will involve the erection of over 300 towers along the route. Towers may be
erected either by assembly on the ground and lifting or by erecting in stages. The
spccificalionis allow the contractor to detcrmine the appropriate metlhod to use subject to
approval and supervision by VRA.
*  Erection of conductors, shield wires and other accessories - the conductors (wound on
drums) and accessories (insulators, fittings etc) shall be transported to site by suitable
trucks or trailers. The stringing method to be used by the contractor will be subject to
prior approval by VRA. In all cases where stringing will cross power liles, telephone
lines, public roads etc, due notification to appropriate authorities will be given.
A major componient of the project will be the use of optic fibre cable (OPGW) in place of
one of the conventional shield wires.
Rcfwai - MouchcIIVRA/I'OTUEIS           21



PRESTEIA-OBUASI T RANSMISSION LINE - FINAL. IS
Thc installation of this circuit (which will be further extended from Obuasi to Kumasi)
will enable VRA to complete the loop of the existing fibre optic communication systemii
currently operated by VOLTACOM. This will be further elaborated on in Chapter 6
(Consideration of Alternatives)
*  Modification works at Prcstca and Obuasi substations - a summary of the civil works
required at both substations is given below:
Prestca substation works
*  Rehabilitation of approximately 100 m access road leading to existing 161/55 kV
Transformers TI & T2.
*  Demolition of existing security building.
*  Construction of substation boundary including fencing and perimeter drains.
*  Extension of 225 kV control building into a conference room.
Obuasi substation works
*  Extension of existing substation building
*  Constr-uction of foundations for 161 kV outdoor equipment
*  Construction of cable trenches, pits, tunnels and duct banks
2.3   Opcrational Activities
Wheni all aspects of the construction are completed and the line is put into service by VRA, the
key aspects of the operational phase (of environmental interest) will involve thc followilig:
*  Sccurity, public/occupational hcalth and safcty issucs - Once thc line is comimiissiolncd
and transmitting power, issues of safety and security become paramount. The maill
operational activitics are therefore aimed at maintaining the system intcgrity at all times
with provision for rapid response to fault conditions along the line.
Rcla%1 - Motcich/VtRA/'O'I IJIFIS      22



PRESTIEA-O01uASI lTRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL FIS
The VRA Transmission Department with its head office at Tema (Volta substatioln) is
responsible for all aspects of operation and maintenance of the transmission network.
Within this department, the Line Maintenance section has direct responsibility for Iine
maintenance (including towers, conductors and associated RoW). The line maintenance
activities arc divided into three broad categories and these are discussed below.
*  Running Maintcnancc - this consists of the normal checks and remedial actions taken to
ensure reliable and safe operations of the line. Activities undertaken under the VRA
Transmission Line Running Maintenance are the following:
*  Helicopter Patrol
Helicopter patrols provide a visual means of examining a line section and the associated
right-of-way to detcct any defect or potentially hazardous situation, which may
jeopardize the security and reliability of the line and the safety of the general public.
All VRA transmissionl line sections are patrolled aerially once a year.
*  Ground (Foot) Patrol
Ground patrols provide a means of carefully examining a line section and the associated
riglht-of-way to detect any defect or potentially hazardous situation whichi may jeopardize
the security and reliability of the line and the safety of the general public.
Ground patrols complcment the helicopter patrol in evaluating the status of the lines.
Special attention is given to line components and parts of components which are not
easily observed from a helicopter.
Ground patrols are carried out on all line sections twice a year.
Rclasl - Mouchcl/VtRA/'OIJEIS            23



PRESTEA-OliUASI lTRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
*   Security Patrol
Security patrol is conducted on some line sections located in the outskirts of urban areas
and towns, which are prone to acts of vandalism. This patrol is conducted at least every
fortnight throughout the year on the selected line sections. It is to ensure that any
vandalism is detected promptly and necessary remedial actions taken quickly to repair the
structures.
*  Tower Auditing (Climbing Maintenance of Towers)
Tower Auditing of towers provides a means of assessing the aging process of towers.
This activity starts one year after the commissioning of a line section and it follows a
one-year cycle. In a cycle of tower auditing, 10% of all suspension towers and all dead-
end towers are thoroughly examined. As the line ages, it is subjected to wear and fatiguc
which are not noticeable by a distant visual inspection. Detection and tightening of loose
bolts on supports and hardwarc can reduce premature wear and indicate for replacenenet
of worn components before failure.
The check-list for this exercise includes the following:
/  critical inspection of tower and line for signs of physical damage and
deterioration
/ checking tightness of bolts on structures
/  evaluation of thc degree of wear on hardware
/  checkinig of the alignment of vibration dampers
/  vibration studies
/ radio and television surveys
/ testing of insulators
/  chccking the conditioni of joints and bolted connections using iifra-red
equipment
R.LIsi - MoLIchcI/VRAII'OTuEIS          24



PRESTl.A-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL i-lS
V mcasurcment of the thickness of galvanizationi on towers
V checking of tower ground resistance
V inspection of the right-of-way and condition of access roads
*  Correction of Defects
Subsequent to the patrols and tower auditing activities outlined abovc, a work schedule is
drawn to correct all the minor defects observed. This work schedule normally covers the
whole year with prioritization of activities and includes the following:
/ replacement of flashed over insulators
V replacement of pieces of damaged conductor and shield wire
/  replacement of defective dampers and other hardware
V replacement of vandalized components
/ improvement of tower footing ground resistance
/  insulator washing at substations and on selected towers
/  spot/extensive clearing of tall vegetation growth on thc right-of-way
V  maintenance of access roads and tracks
Apart from the extensive clearing of vegetation growth on the lines' right-of-way and the
maintcnance of access roads and tracks, which are undertaken by private contractors and
supervised by VRA staff, all the activities indicated above are carried out by VRA
personnel.
*  Major Maintenance - these are activities taken to rectify defects found repetitively and
normally arise from Running Maintenance. Examples of these activities include line re-
insulation and hardware replacement.
Therc are refurbishment/rehabilitation programmes carried out on aging lines especially
those routed througlh aggressive environments (e.g. mining, industrial and coastal).
Ri.fitsL - MoulchcI/VRA/1OI II IS       25



PRESTEA-01IUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL IIS
Major activities to combat acts of vandalism on older lines are also iicluded in these
programmes.
Activities undertaken under the VRA Transmission Line Major Maintenance programme
include the following:
/  Re-insulation of Transmission Line Sections.
V  Treatment of rust and re-painting of tower components,
V  Replacement of corroded towers and transmission line hardware.
V Replacement of conventional bolts and nuts with anti-theft fasteners on older
line sections.
/ Rehabilitation of access roads and tracks.
Emergency Maintenance - these are activities relating to the clearing of sustained line
faults.  Emergency maintenanlce takes about 5%  of the annual activities of the
Maintenance Section.  Emergenicy maintenance could be minor (e.g. hardwarc or
insulator failure) or major (e.g. one or more tower failures). The following are the usual
Emergenicy Maintenance activities undertaken:
V  Helicopter and/or ground patrols to locate sustained line faults.
/  Clearing of sustained line faults e.g. replacement of failed insulators, clamps
or repositioning/repair of Conductors.
V  Construction of temporary by-pass line to replace collapsed sections of lines.
V Re-construction of collapsed portion of lines.
Apart fromii activities involving the re-construction of collapsed portion of lines, whichi arc
undertakeni by the VRA and also by private contractors supervised by VRA Staff, all the
activities indicated above are carried out by VRA personnel.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/l'OTIE15           26






Chapter 3
Description of
Existing Environment






PRI.sTri-A-OIlUASI TRANSMISSION LININ- 1IINAI. LIS
3.0 DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING ENVIRONMENT
In order to evaluate the potential impacts of the proposed project, it is necessary to have a clear
understanding of the nature and characteristics of the existing environmcnt (i.e. both bio-physical
and socio-economic/cultural). The proposed Prestea-Obuasi Transmission Line Project (POTL),
spanning a total distance of about 110 kim, lies roughly between longitude 20 00"E and 20 30"E
and latitude 50 40"N and 6° 15 "N.
As stated earlier, the POTL is a "linear" project within a relatively narrow corridor, traversing a
wide area of influence with diverse characteristics. From the Scoping, the components of the
envirornent which were deterrnined to be of significance have been studied in further details
and are discussed in the following sections. There is also a discussion on the existing
transmission lines.
3.1    Bio-Physical cnvironmcnt
Thlis scction gives an account of the climate and the natural resources occurring in the project
arca. It describes the gcneral baseline conditions and assesscs the significance and value of the
natural resources of the area in relation to their conservation status. The major natural resources
of significance are the Flora, Forest Resources, Fauna, Water Resources, Geology and Soils and
Mineral Resources.
3.1.1 Climate
Thc proposed 161 kV transmission line traverses the Ankobra, Ofin and Birrimn river basins. The
climatc in the project area is generally characterized by a bi-modal high rainfall, separated by
two dry spclls. These climatic conditions are brought about by two air masses that dominate thic
cntile West African sub-region. They are the northerly trade wind (Harmattan), a desiccating,
dstLSy ladcn wind, which blows from the north-east (the Sahara Dcscrt), and thc southl-westcrn
trade wind (south-west Monsoon), a moisture laden wind blowing from thie Atlantic Ocean.
Kclast - MouchONVA/0I'O IHLJIS         27



PRESTEA-OBUASI lRANSMISSION UN±, - rLN   z.V
Rainfall: Data gathered from the Meteorological Services Department for Axim, Bogosu and
Kumasi covering the periods 1980 -1999 have been averaged and presented in the following
Tables 3. 1(a-c).
Table 3.1(a) Average Monthly RiWnfaU at Aucm (nmm)
-Month    Jan     Feb    Mar  |Ar      May  Jim      Jul                 Oct Sept   Nov  Dec
Avg.    | 32.6   35.5   102.4  169.7  339.9  493.6  142.2  71.6   95.0   213.0 [134.0  57.8
Table 3.1(b) Average Monthly RainfaD at Bogomu (mm)
Month     Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Ju     Aug    Set    Oct    Nov    Dec
Avg.      15.5   83.6   161.4. 222.9  222.9  214.4  272.1  107.6  199.8  80.5   80.5   38.8
Table 3.1(c) Average Mothbly Rainfall at Kumasi (mim)
Month     Jan    Feb  I     Mapr       MaY   Jun    Jul    Au     Sept   Oct    Nov    Dec
Avgg      17.5   48.1   111.5  145.7  152.7  206.3  133.3  84.4   153.7  130.6  40.2   28.9
500S -
? i.-- Axim
400 -
Bogosu
Kumasi
300-
200 -i
100
0  I    .    .    .     .    .    .    .     .    .  
Jan        Mar       May       July       Sept       Nov
Average Monthly Rainfal - Axim, Bogosu, KumasiL
Refag - MoudhicfVRA/POTLES                       28



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Temperature: Within the project area, temperatures are high throughout the year as shown in
Tables 3.1 (d-f) below. Generally, the highest mean monthly temperatures of 27 - 28°C occur
from March to May during the major wet season and the lowest of 24 - 25°C from June - August,
the coolest months within the forest regions of Ghana.
Table 3.1(d) Aveage Monthly Temperature at Axim (IC)
Month     Jan   Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun   Jul   |Au     Se     Oct    Nov    Dec
Avg.     _26.8  | 27.7  27.9  | 27.8  26.9  24.8   25.5  24.9   25.4   26.2   26.7   26.8
Table 3.1(e) Average Montbly Temperature at Bogmu( C)
Month     Jan  I Feb   Mar I Apr    I y  TJun      I Jul  I  Aug  I Sept I Oct  Nov  Dec
Avg.     26.6   26.8   28.9   26.6  1 25.8  25.8  25.3   25.0   25.4   26.1   26.6  26.3
Table 3.1(f) Average Monthly Temperature at Kumasi ( C)
-               -     -      - I.A-g -                        ep-    Oc-       -T
Month    Jan    Feb   | Mar   Apr    Mav Jun      Jul             p     Oct   Nov    Dec
Avg.     26.8   286    28.2   27.B   27.2   26.0  25.0   24.7   25.4   26.1  | 26.9  26.3
Average Monthly Temperature
29 
27-
26
oc
26 -
24 
2  4  - .            _-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
23 -                                                 Axim
22                                   o-oosu
Jan     Mar     May      Jul     Sept    Nov       Kumasi
Average Monthly Temperature - Axim, Bogosu, Kumasi.
Refas - MouheI/VRA(POTLAMS                     29



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Data on mean daily percent relative humidity are shown in Table 3.1 (g-i). From the dense forest
areas with values of 80 - 85%, it gets drier nearer to Obuasi (61 - 84% for Kumasi).
Table 3.1(g) Average Monthly Relative Humidity at Aiim (% )
t Month    Jan    FebL   M   arA       May  JLun    Jul    Aug   I Sept I Oct  | Nov  |D
Avg.    |.80 |.81 |.80       | 80    83      4    |84    |5      85   |4       82   |0
Table 3.1(h) Averge Monthly Relative Humidity at Dogosu (%)
[ Month    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun   Jul    Aug    Sept   Oct    Nov   | Dec
Avg       73     71     74   '76 _80        83     84     83     82     81     78   178
Table 3.1(i) Average Monthly Relative Humidity at Kumasi (-)
Month    Jan     Feb   Mar   3A      M      j Jun  Jul    A      Sp     Oct    Nov    Dec
Avg.      61... 64    72     77     79     82     84     84     83     80     76     68
90
80  1     ^ -  *    2     ^        --e-----_        _
70 t
60
%50
40
30
20 -                                                               + Axim
10                                                                    Bogosu
0                ,         .    .    ,     ,   .              . -.- Kumasi
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec
Average Monthly Relative Humidity - Aiim, Bogosu, Kumasi
Refas - MoudicIVRAPOTLEIS                       30



PRESliA-O01IJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL ["IS
Wind: Maximum wind gusts recorded along the line route fall within 95 - 120 km/h range.
However mean daily winds speeds are very low in all months of the year and do not exceed 10 -
12 km/h. The wind speeds are factored into the safe design of the transmission towers.
3.1.2 Flora
A detailed survey of the vegetation was conducted along sections of the existing and the
proposed right-of-way of the transmission line from Prestea to Obuasi. The current vegetation is
an admixture of mature secondary forest and early stages of its succession (i.e. secondary forest
dominated by pioneers, secondary thicket and farm re-growth) and crop farms.
The vegetation description is presented in two parts for convenience. The sector from Prestea to
Bogoso mostly lies in the Wet Evergreen Forest zone while that from Bogoso to Obuasi lies
witlhin the Moist Evergreen Forest Zone to the south and the Moist Semi-deciduous south-east
subtype to the north (see Fig. 3-1).
l*rcstca to Bogoso (Wct Evcrgreen)
The vegetation encountered is largely secondary forest, secondary thicket, farm re-growtlh, farm
land and marshes/freshwater swamp. The secondary forests are dominated by Elaies guineenise,
Alsionia boonei, Anthocleista djalonensis, Anthocleista nobilis, Trema orienialis, Musanga
cecropioides, Morinda lucida and Albizia zygia and Funiurnia africana/elastica. Some of the
species in the secondary thicket are Chromnolaena odorata, Psidiumn guajava, Elaeis guineense
and Alchornea cordifolia. The farm re-growths have abandoned cassava, shrubs suclh as Solanumn
lorvi'n and Alcholrnea coridifolia. Cash crop plantations in the arca include cocoa, rubber and oil
and coconut palms. The major food crops farmed are maize, cassava and plantain ..Thc
ficshwater swamps are dominated by Raphia hookeri (Raphia palm) while the gallery/river
banks are dominated by Bambusa vulgaris (bamboo).
RcI,ast - MouchIcl/VRA/I'O l-UEIS       31



PRESTI-A-01lUASI I RANSN1ISSION LINE - FINAL LIS
Bogoso to Obuasi (Moist Evcrgrecn and Moist Scmi-deciduous)
The vegetation is largely secondary forest, secondary thickets, marsh/freshwater swamp, farms
and farm re-growths. The Opon-Mansi and Denyau forest reserves are located in the study area.
Thc secondary forest is matured with some trees 30 m or above in height witlh closed canopy.
Some of the trees encountered are Dislermonanihus benihamianus, Triplochilon scleroxylon,
Terminalia ivorensis, Alsionia boonei, Albizia ferruginea, Cola giganlea, Pycnanihus
angolensis, Psydrax subcordala and Ceiba peniandra. The secondary thicket vegetation in this
section includes Ficus exasperala, Musanga cecropioides, Alchornea cordifolia, Bahpia nitida,
Anihocleista sp. and Harungana madagascariensis. The major food and cash crops are cassava,
plantain, cocoa and oil and coconut palms. Raphia hookeri, Plerocarpus santalinoides, Bambusa
vulgaris and Hallaea slipulosa (Mitragynia slipulosa) dominate the fresh water swamps and
gallery forest. Acroceras zizanioides and Pnuemalopleris afra dominate the marshes.
3.1.3 Forest Resources
TIhe forest resourccs identified include mature and immature secondary forests and parts of the
Opon-Mansi and Denyau Sheterbelt belt forest reserves. They span three major forest vegetation
types namely thc Wet Evergreen, Moist-Evergreen and Moist semi-deciduous (south-east sub
typc).
The Opon-Mansi forest reserve occupies 116.6 sq. km (11,660 ha) and was first reserved in 1930
whilst the Dcnyau Shelterbelt forest reserve has an area of 12.4 sq. km (1,240 ha) and was first
designated in 1939. The length of the proposed line through the Denyau reserve will be about
2.25-kkm whilc the section through the Opon-Mansi reserve will be about 0.8 km. (i.e. out of the
total proposed 110 Ikm power line, about 3.05 km of the line will pass through the reserves)
The major produce of the area include some 320 timber species, 80 of which grow to sizes and
qUantitics for commlcrcial exploitation. Important species being exploited includc Milicia excelsa
(OduIlm), Heritiera utilis (Nyankom), Daniellia ogea (Hyedua), Mansonia allissi,na (Mansonia),
Khaya ivorensis (mahogany), Termiinalia ivorensis (Emire) and Tur r aeanthus africanus
RClast - MouchcIVRA/I'(0 I IJLIS         32



PRI.S T EA-013tASI lRANSMISSION LINE - IINA[. IIS
(Avodire). Timber products include veneer, plywood and sawn boards. Minor forest produce
include firewood and charcoal, herbal medicines and poisons and bush meat.
3.1.3a Conservation and Utilisation Status
Following the detailed field surveys, checklists of the plant species in the project area were
compiled from the findings of the field visits and from available forest inventory data held by the
Forest Service Division of the Ghana Forestry Commission on Forest Reserves. The checklists
cover selected areas of the RoW outside forest reserves and sections of the Denyau and Opon
Mansi reserves through which the proposed line route passes. The nomenclature used follows
I-lutchlinison and Dalziel (1954-1972) and Hall and Swainc (1981). The ecological significance
and conservation statuses of the species encountered were defined using the Star Rating System
adopted in the Forest of Gliina Geographic Information Exlhibitor Manual (Hawthorne, 1995)
as follows:
Tablc 3.2(a): Ecological Signiricance and Conservation Status Ratings
STAR RATING          ECOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE
Black Star species   Species rare internationally and at least uncommon in Ghana; urgenit
attention to conservation of populations needed
Gold Star species    Fairly rare internationally and/br locally
Blue Star spccies    Widespread intemationally but rare in Ghana or vice-versa
Scarlet Star species  Common, but under serious pressure from heavy exploitation
Red Star species     Common, but under pressure from exploitation
Pink Star species    Common and moderately exploited. Also non-abundant species of high
potential value
None in particular.
Green Star specics
Thc proportions of species in the various categories were estimated and used in evaluating the
ccological significanice of the areas to be traversed by the RoW.
Anicxes 3-1, 3-2 and 3-3 present the detailed checklists of vegetation for the RoW (proposcd
and existing) outside forest reserves, Denyau and Opon Mansi forest reserves respectively. The
r esults of the star rating analysis are summarised in Table 3.2(b) below:
RclaLst - Mouchcl/VRA/I'O1  IJIEIS      33



PRESTEjA-OIIUASI TRANSMISSION LINL - I:INAL. HIS
Table 3.2(b): Summary of Conservation Status of Species in the Project area
Star rating         RoW outside         Denyau Forest       Opon Mansi Forest
reserves (%)        Reserve (%)         Reserve (%)
Black               0                   0                   0.9
Gold                0                   1.9                 0.9
Blue                0                   6.5                 4.3
Scarlet             3.5                 0                   0.9
Red                 1.7                 0.9                 1.7
Pink                6.9                 7.4                 9.4
Green               60.3                84.3                82
Others/Noni forest  27.6                0                   0
Table 3.2(b) above shows that no species of urgent conservation concern was encountered
outside the reserves along the proposed and existing RoW of the transmission line. Furthermore,
tlhere is a highi proportion of non-forest species (27.6%) in the proposed and existing RoW,
outside the reserves. In contrast, the RoW in the Denyau and Opon Mansi forest reserves
traverses areas with no non-forest species and few species of conservation concern (Black. Gold
and Blue Star species). In all the cases, most of the species encountered are common and do not
rcquire any particular conservation attention. Table 3.2(b) also implies that a larger section of the
RoW traverses terrain that hias been degraded by years of farming and mining and tlherefore the
proiect would not have any significant adverse impact on species diversity and composition.
Table 3.2(c) below shows the ecological status or guilds of the species in the RoW.
Table 3.2(c): Summary or Ecological Guilds/Signiricance of Species in project area
Area                       Pioneers species (%)       Primary species (%)
RoW outside reserves       48.3                       15.5
Dcnyau Forest reserve      6.5                        75
Opon mansi Forest reserve  16.2                       61.5
[lThc high proportion of pioneers and rather low level of primary species (i.e. Shade-bearers and
Non-Pioneer Light Demanders) in the RoW outside the forest reserves is indicative of a high
level of degradation of the vegetation]
3.1.4 Fauna
Four main methods were used in thie faunal survey: direct/opportunistic observation,
identification of animal spoors, interviews and desk/literature surveys (Hughes & Barry, 1969;
Rclasl - Mouchcl/VRA/I'lUEIS             34



PRlSTFA-OI1MIASI TRANSMISSION I.INL - IINAI. EIS
Scrle et al, 1992; Delany and Happold, 1979; Kingdon, 1987; lHughes, 1988; I-alicnorti &
Diller, 1988; Larsen, 1994.)
Direct/opportunistic observation involved recording any animal sightings while surveying along
the main access roads or animal trails to the areas bordering the proposed transmission line route,
especially near the two towns of Bogoso and Dunkwa, where the proposed lines divert markedly
from the old lines in order to avoid the former passing over the towns.
Transect walks to spot animal spoors (any sign left by a living animal, such as feeding sites,
regular pathways, tracks, footprints, faecal pellets, nests, etc.) were also undertaken.
Some individuals in villages along the proposed line were interviewed for information about the
fauna of the area. The interviews focused mainly on the identification of the various animals that
commonly occurred in the area, and some indication of their abundance. Based on the information
gathered from the various methods, including the desk surveys, thie Faunal species known to occur
in the project area are presented in Table 3.3 overleaf. Annex 3-4 presents a detailed list of the
Faunal species found in Gliana's forest areas.
All the faunal specics listed play very important rolcs in the forcst ccosystem, as manifested in
-food chiains. Some of these species are also key ecological indicators, as well as being important
in the socio-economic set-up of the local human communities.
A number of thc species are of both national and global conservation significance and these are
indicatcd in thc tabic accordingly. Some species enjoy varying degrees of protection unider
Ghiana's wildlife laws as explained in the accompanying legend at the end of thc Table.
Tablc 3.3: List of Fauna occurring in thc project arca and their Conservation significance
SP1ECIES            COMMON NAME                CONSERVATION SIGNIFICANCE
Index   of IUCN    CITES   National
Abundance
*  Invertebrates
Achlaiina achalina  (Giant snail)
.Julus species      (Millipede)
Zonoceros variegalus  (Grasshopper)
Rchasl - Moucidc/VRA/1OTUES              35



PRES1 l:A-013iJASI TRANSMISSION H.lNI: - FINAL. IFIS
Sl'ECIES             COMMON NAME               CONSERVATION SIGNIFICANCE
Index   of IUCN     CITES   National
Abundance
Papilio demnodocus   (Citrus   swallow    tail
butterfly)
* Amphibians
I-ylarana galamensis  (Common Frog)
Bufo regularis      (Common Toad)
*  Rectiles                                                      _  .
Lizards:             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Agama agania         (Agama/Rainbow Lizard)
Hemidactylus brookei (CommonHouse/WallGecko)
MAihuya perolleliu  (Orange-flanked Skirnk)
Chamaeleo gracilis  (Gracile Chameleon)            A                 11
Varanus             (Bosc's Monitor Lizard)        A                 11
exanthematicus
VaI amus niloticus  (Nile Monitor Lizard)          U
Snakes:                               ___
Python regius       (Royal Python)                 R                 II       11
Python sebac         (African Python)              U                 1I       II
Philothan2nus        (Green Tree Snake)
senfivariegatus                                                         .
Nqca nielanoleiuca   (Black Cobra)
Dcndroa.Api.v viridis  (Green Mamba)
Bitis gabonica      (Gaboon Viper)
B3 nascicorni.%      (Rhinoceros Viper)     _
a Chelonians
Kinixys homeana      (Home's Hinged Tortoise)       U                II       11
Kinixvs erosa        (Hinged Tortoise)              U                11
* Crocodilia
0selolualmus leirapsis  (West  African  Dwarf      R
Crocodile)
*   Btir(ds
1ireron ausiralis   (Greeni Dove/Fruit-pigeon)     A
Ploccus cucullanus  (Village Weaver Bird)           A
Corvus albus         (Pied Crow)
Biuhulcus ihis      (Cattle Egret)
Gvpohierax          (Palm-nut Vulture)             A                 11
atigolensis______                                                          __ _____
CeL'alogymna alrala  (Black-casqued HornbiI)
Passer griseus       (Grey-headed Sparrow)
*  Mammals
Rcfast - MoucheiVRAIPOTIJ1S             36



PRESlTl.A-013UASI TIRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL FIS
SPECIES             COMMON NAME               CONSERVATION SIGNIFICANCE
Indcx   of IUCN    CITES   National
Abundance
A nomalurus peli    (Flying Squirrel)                                        I
Cricelomys          (Giant/Pouched Rat)            A                         11
gamnbianus_
Thryonomys          (Grasscutter/Cane Rat)
swinderianus
Cercopithecus mona  (Mona Monkey)                 NU                11      II
Dendrohyrax         (Tree Hyrax)                   A                         11
dorsalis
Cephalophus         (Maxwell's Duiker)            NU                         if
maxwellis
Cephalophus         (Bay Duiker)                  NU
dorsalis
LEGEND:
National or-Global Conservation Status:
* INDEX OFABUNDANCE
A..... Abundant (Usually encountered in small or large numbers in their
preferred habitat)
NU .   Not Uncommon (Not often encountered in tilcir preferred habitat)
U..... Uncommon (Infrequently seen)
R..... Rare (Only rarely encountered; locally endemic)
* IUCN .....   INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR THE CONSER VA TION OF
NA TURE (RED LIST OF THREA TENED ANIMALS, 1986)
E.. Endangered (In danger of extinction, and survival unlikely if the
causal factors continue operating)
V .. Vulncrabic (Believed likely to move to "Endangered" category, if the
causal factors continue operating)
I... Indetcrminatc (Known to be "Endangered" or "Vulherable " but
there is not enough informationi to say which category is
appropriate)
R... Rarc (Small localised world populations, and thercfore at risk, but are
currently not "Endangered" or "Vulnerable")
* CITES ..... CONVENTION ON ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN
ENDANGERED SPECIES OF FVILD FLORA AND FAUNA
(APPENDICES, 1975)
I .. Appendix I (Threatened species which cannot be traded in)
Rcf.isl - MouIcdci/VRA/I'IL JLEIS        37



PRI:STlA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINL - FINAL [:lS
11... Appcndix 2 (Species for which levels of trade are limited)
* NATIONAL WILDLIFE CONSERVATION REGULATIONS
(SCHEDULES, 1995)
I ... Schedule 1 (The hunting, capturing or destroying of these species is
prohibited at all times)
11.. Schedule 2 (The hunting capturing or destroying of these species
is absolutely prohibited between 15' August and IS'
December of any season. The hunting, capturing or
destroying of any young animal, or adult
accompanied by its young, of these species is
absolutely prohibited at all times)
3.1.5 Water Resources
The water resources include available rainwater, surface and ground water resources. Many
communities use both surface and ground water as drinking water sources.
The area falls within the vegetation zone receiving the three highest rainfall regimes in the
country.
*  The wet evergreen with over 1750mm and sometimes up to 2000mm.
*  The moist-evergreen with 1200 -1800mm
*  The moist semi-deciduous (south-east sub-type) with some 1200 - 1800mm.
In addition, water is availablc from riversides and the various tributarics both being intermittent
(seasonal) and perennial. The major river systems are the Ankobra with a catchment of 8,550 sq.
kin. Its major tributaries in the project area include Opon, Mansi and Bogo. The other major river
is Plra River with a catchment of some 23,310 sq. kin. Major tributaries of the Pra river in thc
arca include the River Offin and River Gyimi.
Rckia't - Mouchld/VRA'(lIAJL:IS         38



PRF-STI'A-Ol3UASI rRANSMISSION l.iNI - I:INAI. CIS
Thc major rivcrs and their tributaries iicluding non-perennial streams in the project area are
presented below and also shown on Fig. 3-1.
* Prestea to Bogoso
River Ankobra, R. Mansi, R. Bodwobi, R. Bogo, and R. Watchman
* Bogoso to Dunkwa
River Suman, R. Bakaabukore, R. Agyagya, R. Opon, R. Wuwu, R. Agyakomado,R. Anikokoo,
R. Mpakyua, R. Subin and R. Offin
* Dunkwa to Obuasi
River Gyimi, R. Roro, R. Anowa, R. Nyankomaso, R.Yam and R. Enewompeanom.
Witlh respect to the ground water resources, the project area lies within the strata wlhichi can yield
between 2000-3000 gallons per hour. However the quantities are such that they can only be
sufficient for small to medium size communities but not for high water consumptive areas (e.g.
urb,an centres, industries and irrigated agriculture).
3.1 .5a Consenration
The need to protect thicsc water bodies is paramount since there arc often timiies wheln they are
prfccrred to bore-holes as sources of drinking water and for domestic washiing and bathing
(because the ground water is deemed to be of poor taste and does not lather well).
3.1.6 Gcology and Soils
TIlhc linc traverses through an area under the Birriman, Tarkwaian and Granitic geological rock
formation. The altitude of the area ranges between 150 m to 300 ni with the proposed sites for
tlc pylonis located mostly around the summits of the uplands:
Rtcl,  - Mouchll/VRA/1'0TIJIS           39



I'RI:SIfEA-OBLJASI 'RANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
A Detailed-Preliminary Soil Survey was employed in the study. A buffer zone was created at
both sides of the existing VRA pylons and the lines used by the route surveyors (in the case of
the diversions from the old VRA pylons).
Major roads and footpaths as well as the specially cut driveways used by the route surveyors
were utilized. Soils were examined, described and identified at the Great Soil Group and scries
levels (see Fig. 3-2). At the series level (which gave a more detailed scale of examination), the
soils were examined from samples taken from chisel holes and auger borings at regular intervals
of 100m or wherever there occurred a distinct change in vegetation, parent material, relief or
drainage. Vegetation and Land-use recordings were also made in the course of the study.
The general geology of the project area, which extends between southern Prestea through
Bogoso, Dunkwa to Obuasi with an estimated distance of 110 km, falls under the Lower
Birrimian metasediments (Middle Archean age) and the Upper Birrimian units which are
dominantly metavolcanic. The predominant geological formations underlying the Bogoso area
arc the Lower Birriman, with minor intrusions of Upper Birriman rocks and the Tarkwaian.
* Thc Birrimian Formations
Thcsc conisist of the Lower Birrimian and the Upper Birrimian with thie former being the more
cxtensive within the formations. The entire arca between Prestea and Bogoso extending a few
kilometcrs above the centrally located Bogoso - Prestea road to the west are under this geological
formation.
Thc lower Birrimian formation is the oldest and consists mostly old phyllites, greywaches and
schists with injected quartz veins. There are mafic dikes that locally intrude the Lower Birrimiiani.
Suchl dikes, vary from one to several metcrs in thickncss.
Phyllitc, thc predominiant rock within the Lower Birrimian formation is a pelitic sediment of Prc-
Camnbriani age which has been weathered to clay, hardened and foliated by heat and pressure. It is
usually soft, with a fine laminiated structure. It can be of various colours rangiig from black,
blue, grey, brown, orange to red.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/1'OTJIMS          40



PRESTI-A-OI3UASI TRANSMISSION LINI: - FINAL FIS
Phyllite easily breaks into flat fragments and it is soapy to feel. It occasionally grades into harder
rocks such as slates and sericite schists, and odd patches of greywache and tuffs.
Veins and stringers of quartz injected into the phyllite break up during weatherilng to give rise
mostly to silty clay soils often containing stones and quartz.
The Upper Birriniian formation, which mainly occurs as minor intrusions into the Lower
Birrimian formation, is younger and consists mainly of phyllites and schists.
* Tarkwaian System
The Tarkwaian System comprises of a series of shallow water sediments, quartzites, sandstones,
schists, phyllites and conglomerates resting on and derived from the Birrimianl. Like the
Birrimian, the Tarkwaian rocks are folded along north-east to south-west axes.
They contain thick laccoliths and sills of epidiorite. In some areas, the rocks have been muclh
folded and metamorphosised after the emplacement of the intrusions. Such rocks on weathering
give rise, maitly, to medium to fine textured soils.
3.1.6a The Soils - classification and gcneral cvaluation
The soils within these zones are a mixture of the very acidic (Forest Oxysols) soils of thc higlh
raiin forest and the moderately acidic (Forest Ochrosols) soils of the semi-deciduous rain forest
zones and their intergrades.
The major soil groups occurring within the area as classified under the Ghanaian systems are a
mixture of the very acid (Forest Oxysols) soils of the high rain forest and the moderately acidic
(Forest Ochrosols) soils of the semi-deciduous rain forest zones and the Forest Ochrosols-
Oxysols intergrades. The first two arc typical soils of the Prestea, Bogoso and Dunkwa areas
wlilc the lattcr is found around Obuasi.
Rclasi - MoudicI/VRA/1'OTIJEIS            41



PRESTEA-013LJASI IRANSMISSION l.INE - FINAI -E,IS
Oxysols are classified under the USDA and FAO soil classification systems as Oxysols and
Ferric, Plinthic Acrisols respectively. These are also soils developed under evergreen rainforest
with rainfall above 1750 mm. Oxysols are strongly leached soils with predominant kaolinitic
clays with varying humus content.
The Forest Ochrosols are classified as Ultisols and Rhodic Ferrasol under the USDA and FAO
systems respectively. The Ochrosols are developed in forest and savannah environment under
rainfalls between 900 mm and 1650 mm. They are gravely and draughty, with a little amount of
organic matter. This is typical of the summit soils where the pylons are sited withlill the Obuasi
area. This soil group is highly susceptible to water erosion.
Soils occurring around the summits of uplands within the Dunkwa area belong to the Forest
Ochrosols-Oxysols intergrades. These soils are also susceptible to leaching. However, rich,
riverine soils from River Offin are typical of the lowlands. These soils are also used extensively
for cocoa production. An extensive form of alluvial soils were identified witlliin the Oppon
Valley area.
h I'tI llil of maplping foI dctailcd and prelimiiinary soil study of the project arca arc thc soil series
and soil associations, respectively. A soil series consists of soils which have similar profile
characteristics and are derived from the same parent materials under similar conditions of
cliimate, vegetation, relief and drainage.
A group of related soil scries developed over or in the same parent material and often forming a
rCgLular topographic sequence (catena) constitute a soil association.
As indicated earlier in the discussion oln the geology of the area, the project area is underlain by
threc gcological formations, namely, the Lower Birrimian with minor intrusions of the Upper
Birrimliian and the Tarkwaian. These have given rise to different soils which have been grouped
into Upland and Lowland Soil Associations as follows:
* Soils Dcvcloped ovcr Lower Birrimian Rocks
Rclast - MouchNl/VIA/'OIUl'IS             42



PRIFSl l A-OitlASI I RANSMISSSI)N l.lNI - FINAL EIS
Lower Birrimian phyllites and associated rocks, principally, greywaches, mudstones and scihists
whicih constitute the oldest rocks underlying the project area, are the most extensive. They cover
nearly two-thirds of the total span of the project.
Soil series developed in toposequence over Lower Birrimian rocks are the Kobeda which occur
at the summit/steep slopes, the Bekwai/Nzima occurring between the summit and middle slopes,
Kokofu on the lower slopes, Kakum on the levees and Oda on the valley bottoms.
* Upland Soil Associations
Thcse consist of Kobeda and Bekwai-Nzima associations. The former is made up of immature
soils which are mainly located on steep slope sites and the latter consists of gravely sedentary
soils on the upper and middle slopes. Most of the locations of both old and new pylons are on
this upland soil association.
Kobeda Association
'I'liis association is madc up entirely of Kobeda series, an immaturc soil occurring on stcep
slopcs. Thc Kobeda series arc genierally classified as unsuitable soils for agricultural purposes
due their shallowiness in depth to the bcdrock, lower inherent fertility, highi erosion risk as well as
its capacity to retain insufficicnt amount of moisture. The dominant crop on it within the project
arca is Oil palm.
Bckwai-Nzima Association
TIlhis is thc prominient soil association developed over the Lower Birrimian rocks within the
miodcrate to moderately highi rainforest zone of Ghana and is made up of the Bekwai and Nzima
scrics. The Bekwai series is better drained than the Nzimna. It is generally inherently lower in
fertility. Oil palm, citrus and rubber are the main tree crops observed growing on it withinl the
pro1cct area.
- Mouchcl/VRA/vOr1JEIS               43



I'RSlTI:A-01UASI I'RANSMISSION l.NI: - FINAL [IS
Thc Nzima series is however, the most extensive within the association and it occurs on middle
slopes below the Bekwai series. It is moderately well drained and contains large quantities of
quartz gravel and stones together with ironstones concretions and feruginized rock brash.
* Lowland Soil Associations
This association consists of colluvial and alluvial silty clays derived from the Lower Birrimian
rocks. They occur on lower slopes (Kokofu, Chichiwere and Kakum series) and in valley
bottoms (Oda series) below their upland red (Bekwai series) and brown (Nzima series)
associates.
Kokofu series
This is a yellowish brown, non-gravely colluvial soil developed from the transported silty clay
materials derived from the Lower Birrimian rocks. It occurs on lower slopes and is therefore
imperfectly drained. The colluvial materials from Which it is formed are usually separated by a
gravel or stone layer from  the underlying weathered, soft, decomposing Lower Birrimian
phyllite. With improved drainage, however, it is usually cuitivated to arable crops such as maizc,
cassava, cocoyam and plantain.
KakuLn Series
Kalkuni scries consists of a grayish-brown humilus horizon overlying several centlimeters of
yellow-brown, silty, light clay colluvium, which usually contains few small yellow and grey
miottles. The colluvial materials from which it is formed are usually separated by a quartz-gravel
stonc-linie. The series is the most widespread of lowland soils of the association. The physical
propcrties of the Kakum is quite ideal for cultivation. It also gives satisfactory yields of most of
the food crops like maize, cocoyam, and plantain which are widely cultivated by the indigenous
small scale farmers within the project area.
Cliciliwere series
Clhichiwerc scries is a light-textured ycilow-brown or sandy loam found occasionally on river
levees. It is considered as a sandy associate of Kakum series.
ll - MoucIhN/VRA/1'OIJEIS                 44



PRESTEA-OBIJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - IINAL. EIS
It is usually inextensive, being found in small areas where the river has sorted the material
carried in suspension and deposited mostly sand.
Oda series
Oda series is a gray, poorly drained silty clay alluvial soil occurring in valley bottoms. It is also
developed from Birrimian rocks. It has generally low nutrients reserves and it is acidic. This soil
series is usually moist and occasionally waterlogged for long periods during the raining season.
It is inexterisive and usually occurs only in small, scattered patches on river levees where it
usually used for rice and sugarcane cultivation.
Boi series
Boi series is a normal acidic sedentary soil developed over Lower Birrimian phyllites and
grcywaciles. It is the oxysol equivalent of Nzima series, which it outwardly resemble. The main
difference between the two is the greater acidity of Boi series, reflecting the leaching of bases it
has suffered due to the higher rainfall. Boi series is also often more deeply weathered, with the
deep mottled lower subsoil characteristic of many forest oxysols, and has thinner topsoil.
* Soils Dcveloped over Upper Birrimian Rocks
The soils of the Upper Birrimian formation consist mainly of volcanic lava, scliists and phyllites.
They are in limited extent within the project area occurring as minor intrusions within the Lower
Birr-imiiani formation. It is encountered over very small portions along the Bogoso-Prestea and
Bogoso-Dunkwa roads.
A typical catena of soils ovcr Upper Birrimian rocks occurring on flattish summits are Atukrom,
Piki. Omiappe and Sutri sciics. Between the upper and middle slopes are the reddish scdentary
soils of Elibo and Yakasi series. Soils occurring on the lower slopes and valley bottoms are the
Disue and Kwabcn. Ilowever only the Atukrom series was encountered during the study.
Atukromn scries
l(cliis - Mouchel/VRA/1'OTIJlIS           45



I'lRISTLA-013OLASI 1RANSMISSION LINI - HINAI F:IS
Atukrom series is a reddish brown sedentary forest ochrosol dcvclopcd ovcr Upper Birrimial
rocks (mostly greenstones, schists and tuffs). It is found on upper-slope and summit sites and has
sedentary morphology i.e. humus topsoil, a gravely subsoil, reddish brown in colour, and a
weathered substratum consisting of loam derived from the weathered parent rock.
3.1.7 Mineral Resources
These include various ores as well as soil types and their capabilities. The major soil types as
described above, are forest ochrosols and oxysols. Mineral ores are found in the Tarkwaian and
Birimian series. The Tarkwaian series being the main sources of gold in Ghana and occurs as
both primary and secondary ores. The gold also occurs in conglomerates and banket series.
Within the project area, apart from small-scale gold winners ("galamsey" operators), gold is
mined underground, on the surface as well as from rivers. Major operators are based at Prestea,
Bogoso, Dunkwa, Anyanfuri and Obuasi.
Furthermore, iron ore occurs in the project area at Opon-Mansi. The Opon-Mansi lateritic iron
ore deposit occur on top of a range of hills that extend for 24 km from Opon Valley in the south
to Dunikwa in theil northi. The ore contains silica (3.6%) phosphiorus (0.9%) aluminia (15%) and
iroin ore (4 1%). It is however yet to be exploited. Other mineral deposits in thc area are bauxite,
clay, kaolin and manganiese.
Rcfast - MouctIl/VRA/POTUEIS            46



PRESTEA-01BJASI T RANSMISSION lIINE - IFINAL. IS
3.2    Socio-Economic/Cultural environment
Thirty-six communities were identified during the Scoping as those expected to be affected by
the project. These communities are located in five districts. The districts and their corresponding
communities are listed in Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4: List of Districts and Communities in the Project area
DISTRICT                                    AFFECTED COMMUNITIES
Wassa West                                  Prestea
Bogoso
Ayensukrom
Nsu Siding
Adadekrom
Kwatewiah krom (KTK)
Asante Aye
Pemensu
Abekakroni
Damang
Hiagono
Camp
Opon Valley
Wassa Amanfi                                Gyimahkrom
Amponsakromn
Bridgeso/Pokukrom
Upper Denkyira                              Dunkwa
Kwameprakrom
Agyempaboa
Atekyem
Asikuma
Abesewa
Esaase
Adamso
Adansi Wcst                                 Aboagyekrom
Akaeso
Bome Bisea
Suhyenso
Nyamebekyere
Anwona
Obuasi
Adinkra
Apitiso
Aiiianisic East                             Apitikooko
Tweapease
._____________ _  Fenaso Nkwanta
RCIa1SI - Mouchc1/VRAIAOr1JEIS                 47



PRESTIEA-01UASI TRANSMISSION LINI: - FINAL. LIS
TIhe main objective of the socio-cultural, economic, and demographic study is to have a more
thorough investigation and documentation of potential iinpacts of the POTL project on social
relations, cultural institutions and artifacts, demographic characteristics and the economic well-
being of affected communities. This is to enable the EIS to recommend appropriate mitigating
measures to minimise the possible negative impacts of the proposed project on the affected
communities.
The EIA study covered the following areas of affected persons and communities.
* Ethnic, Cultural and Religious backgrounds
* Historical Resources
* Land Tenure and Land Ownership
* Land Use
* Employment/Manufacturing
* Agriculture
* Public Health
3.2.1  Methodology
Background socio-economic data on the districts was obtained from the District Development
Plans (1995-2000) prepared by each District Assembly. The main data for the study was
gathered through personal consultations with the affected communities. Earlier, during the
Scoping, the affected communities were identified with the help of survey maps of the proposed
power transmission line. The affected communities are those whose lands and/or properties fall
within the right-of-way of the proposed transmission line. At that stage, the people interviewed
were mainly the Chiefs and other community leaders.
A prc-survey visit followed the Scoping exercise.  The visit was made to the identified
communities in order to make arrangements with opinion leaders to organize all persons affected
by the POTL project in their respective communities for the main socio-economic survey.
During the actual field survey, the team moved from community to community in accordance
with the schedule agreed upon with opinion leaders during the pre-survey visit.



PRESTEA-OBUASI 1-RANSN11SSION LINI: - FINAL EIS
Apart from Prestea, Bogoso and Asikuma who initially refused to coopcrate with the researchers,
affected persons in all other communities were ready and waiting to be interviewed when
researchers got there. Structured questionnaires (see Annex 3-5 and 3-6) were administered on a
one-on-one basis to the respondents by the interviewers. The responses are also presented in
Annex 3-7.
In each of the communities visited some opinion leaders including Chiefs and their Elders,
District Chief Executives, District Assemblymen, Unit and Town development committee
members were also contacted.
3.2.2 Proriles of the Districts in the Project area.
The POTL project affects communities in five districts. The districts with the most affected
pcrsons according to the survey results are the Adansi West, Amansie East and Wassa West
districts. Fig. 3-3 is a map showing the communities in the project area. In this section,
background information is provided on the socio-economic profiles of all the five districts.
3.2.2(a)     Wassa West District
The Wassa West district covers the settlements at the southern end (starting point) of the POTL
project including Prestea and Bogoso, two of the major locations of significance to the project.
The district is within the South Western Equatorial zone of Ghana. It is bounded on the east by
Mpohor Wassa, west by Nzema East, south by Ahanta West and north by Wassa Amenfi. It has
a total land area of 2,354 sq km, about 46% of which is devoted to Agriculture.
Dcmograpliic Characteristics
T'he population of the district was estimated to be 235,309 in 1996, with an annual growth rate of
3%. It is projected to reach 261,954 by the end of the year 2000. The gender structure shows that
tlhere are more males than females (100:92).
Relast - Mouchicl/VRA/IOTtIEIS         49



PRIESTILA-o01lJASI lRANSMISSION LINE - FINAI ["IS
lhis might be due to the presence of the mining industry, which is gncerally male-centred.
Further analysis of the population structure indicates that there are more people (56.6%) in the
productive age group of 20-59 years. Only 24.8% of the population is below 14 years, this has
given the district a dependency ratio of 100:91. Using the projected estimates, the population
density (per sq. km) was 99.9 in 1996 and will be 11.2 in 2000.
The population in the district is mainly urban based. Majority of the people reside in the five
principal towns of Tarkwa, Prestea, Bogoso, Nsuta and Nsuem. This is due to the presence of
employment opportunities in the mining industry in these areas.
Ethnicity and Religion: The large-scale mining companies and numerous small-scale mining
activities in the district have encouraged migration into the district. Thus, the district's
population is poly-ethnic. The indigenous Akans however dominate. Like ethnicity, religious
composition is also diverse. There are Christians, Moslems, traditionalists and non-believers.
The dominant religion is Christianity.
* Social Dcvelopnicnt
Education: The district has 129 pre-schools, 152 primary sclhools, 78 junior secondary schools,
6 senior secondary schools. In spite of this, enrolment is low at 65%, which is lower than the
nationlal level and it is eveni lower for females. Apart from the fact that there are not many
teaclhers, only 63% of the teachers arc trained. The situationi is worse at the pre-school level
whvere about 75% of teachers are untrained. The lack of electricity and other social amenities in
most parts of the districts, are identified as the reason why trained teachers are not attracted to
the district.
I-lcalti: There are 4 hospitals, 6 health centers and 15 clinics. The District has only 8 doctors,
120 enrolled nurses, 32 midwives and 3 technical officers. Doctor-patient ratio is 1:29,038 while
thc bed-patient ratio is 1:1055. These figures are high compared to the national figures. The
distribution of the health facilities, most of which are found in the urban centers, mcans that
people have to travel long distances before gaining access to a health facility.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/'0TUE15             50



I'RESTEA-OBUASI 1TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Maternal mortality rate stands at 3.6 with a malnourishment level (children below 60% weight)
of 5.4%. Common diseases are malaria, upper respiratory tract infection, diarrhoea and
HIV/AIDS.
Water: As many as 35.9% of the population depend on streams. Only Tarkwa, Bogoso,
Dompim, Nsuta, Aboso, Prestea, Bonsa and Agona have access to potable water. Frequent
pollution of some of these streams by mining activities, puts a substantial proportion 6f the
population at risk.
* Economic Developmcnt
The district's economy is sustained by the mining, service, commerce and agricultural industries.
Agriculture is the major economic activity employing 42.6% of the labour force. About 10% of
the economically active population (15-65 years) are unemployed. Most of the employed are in
the mining, service and industrial sectors in the urban centers. Thus for the rural areas,
agriculture remains the major source of employment.
The majority of farmers lack access to credit facilities and this, coupled with dependence on
traditional farming methods, contribute to low productivity. The major crops produced are cocoa,
oil palm, coconut. yam, plantain, cocoyam and cassava. Livestock farming is also practiced with
poultry, cattlc, pigs and sheep being the main animals reared.
Road and rail provide the only means of transport. Most of the roads are eithcr second or third
class. Compared to the rural areas, the urban centrcs are better in terms of mobility. Most of thc
rural dwellers walk since there are fewer vehicles plying on their poor roads.
3.2.2(b)     Wassa Amcnfi District
Tilc Wassa Amenfi district covers the next group of settlements along the proposed line route,
about midway between Bogoso and Dunkwa. The district has a total land area of approximately
4.747 square kilometers, about 17.8% of the total land area of Western Region.
Rcfdast - MotichlI/VRIAJOTlUE IS        5 1



PRESTIEA-OtUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAI. EIS
It shares common boundaries with Jomoro and Nzema East Districts to the south, Wassa West to
thc south-east, Upper Denkyira to the north-east, Bibiani-Anhwiaso-Bekwai District to the north
and Sefwi-Wiaso and Aowin-Suaman Districts to the west.
* Dcmographic Charactcristics
The population of the district by 2000 is projected to be about 233,700 based on annual growth
rate of 3.1%. The high growth rate is attributed to the cocoa boom in the 1 970s, which attracted
migrants into the district. The population is mostly rural based; out of the 683 settlements, only
3 could be described as urban. The average household size is 6.1 persons. The gender structure
indicates that 54% are males while 46% are females.
TIhe economically active population constitutes 64.4%, children in the range 0-14 years
constitute 31.1% and adults of 65 years and above form 4.5% of the population. This gives a
dependency ratio of 1:0.6. However, the economic dependency ratio is 1: 1.6.
Ethnicity and Religion: Christians form  77.5%  of the population, while Moslems and
traditionalists constitute 16.8 % and 5.7 % respectively, The district is poly-ethnic with the
Indigenous Akans dominating.
*  Social Devclopmcnt
Most of the people derive their income from crop farming. Nearly 40% of the population fall
bclow the poverty line.
Educationi: There are 155 pre-school establishments, 227 primary schools, 92 junior secondary
schools, 3 senior secondary schools and 3 commercial schools. Enrolment levels for primary and
junior secondary are low at 69.8% and 54.9% respectively. Literacy rate is also low at 50.6 %,
thoughl higlher thaii the national level of 45%.
Rc Isi - Mouchicl/VRA/I'OTUEIS          52



I'RESTEA-0131JASI 'I'RANSMISSION LINE - IFINAI [IS
Health: There are 2 hospitals in the district, I located at the district capital Asankragwa and the
other at Samreboi. There are also 8 health stations, and 14 clinics. As at 1995, the following
were in the top 10 causes of mortality (ranked in descending order). Malaria, anaemia, asthma,
malnutrition, gynaecological disorder, pregnancy related complications, diarrhoea, pneumonia,
enteric fever and measles. Sanitation in the district is generally poor and this contributes to the
high incidence of malaria and other communicable diseases.
Water: Only 2.1% of the population have access to pipe borne water. As much as 60% of the
pcople depend on streams. The population is thus susceptible to water bornc diseases like guinea
worm, onchocerciasis and schistosomiasis.
* Economic Dcvelopmcnt
Farming is the mainstay of the economy. It is the major source of income for almost all
liouseholds. Both cash and food crops are cultivated. Livestock farming is also practiced with
animals like cattle, sheep, poultry, pigs and goats being reared.
In 1996, 72.3% of the district's population was engaged in agriculture. Out of these 67% were
males and 33%, females. About 13.6% are unemployed and of this number, 43.3% are males and
56.7%, females.
Mlanufacturing and Processing is the next most important economic activity after agriculture and
cmploys 5.4% of the economically active population. The main manufacturing activities are
timber processing and small scale processing industries such as palm oil extraction, soap making,
saw milling and cassava processing.
Miniing Quarrying and Construction arc also major economic activitics. Mineral deposits found
in the district include gold and clay. Most mining activities are on a small scale.
RcIast - Mouichcl/VRA/I'OlIJTIUS        53



13Rl.STrlEA-OULJASI T RANSMISSION LINI: - FINAI, HS
3.2.2(c)     Uppcr Dcnkyira District
This District covers most of the communities situated about midway along the proposed route of
the POTL project. As stated in Chapter 2, the proposed line will be diverted to avoid the
scttlements in and around Dunkwa, which is the district capital.
* Demographic Characteristics
The Upper Denkyira district falls within the Central Region of Ghana. The population of the
district is estimated to be 98,561 with a growth rate of 3.1%. The population density is about 57
per sq. km. The district capital, Dunkwa, has the highest population density accounting for
27.7% of the district's total population. The other six highly populated settlements within the
district together account for 14.5% of the district's population whilst the remaining settlements
constitute 60.8% of the population. Apart from the district capital, all the other settlements are
considered rural (given the urban threshold of 5,000) and these rural settlements constitute
75.3% of the district population.
A distinctive feature of the district is its gender ratio of I 1 1:100 male to female, which is higher
than both the national and regional ratios of 97:100 and 96:100 respectively. This may be
attributed to the mniing activities in the district, which typically attract more males thani females.
Thc age distribution is not different from that of the national distribution. There is a young
population and high dependency ratio of 1:1. This certainly puts a lot of pressure on the
district's budget and affects development projects negatively.
T'hc occupational distributioni is typical of a farming community, with agriculture accounting for
the largest percentage of the labour force at 68%; out of which 53% are males and 47% are
femCiales.
Relast - MouchI/VRA/I'O TIJEIS          54



PRI.STllA-0131JASI TRANSMISSION l.NI: - I:INAI I:IS
* Social Dcvelopmcnt
There is an uneven spatial distribution of social services due to poor accessibility and poor road
network linking to service centers. The services available are typically concentrated in the bigger
settlements, placing them more or less beyond the reach of the rural poor.
Education: The condition in the district is not that different from the situation at the national
level with many primary schools, and inadequate tertiary institutions. Although the number of
primary schools is significant at 178, most of those located outside of Dunkwa, the district
capital, are in a poor state of repair.
Hcalth: There are 2 hospitals in the district, both of which are located in the district capital, and
10 health centres/healthi posts within the district. Given the poor road network, health services
are out of the reach of most rural dwellers.
The number of the health posts is also inadequate to cater for a population of about 98,561. This
has led to an over-reliance on unorthodox means of preventive and curative medicine and makes
the people vulnerable to the activities of "quack" doctors and drug peddlers.
The most common diseases reported in the district are malaria, anemia and upper respiratory
tract infections. Malaria has the highest incidence and the upper respiratory tract infections are
prevalent in the mining activities. Poor sanitation and poor nutrition are the major causes of ill
heiathi in the district.
Watcr: Drinking water supplies come from streams, rivers and boreholes. Most of these streams
and rivers arc polluted and infested due to unsanitary surroundings and mniing activities, whiici
arc hazardous to the healthi of the people. Thus, there is a high risk of epidemics.
* .Econornic Dcvelopmcnt
Out of the total land area of approximately 170,000 ha, about 30,250 ha are currently cultivated
and about 45% of the total land area is for mining concessions.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/l'OTIJE15            55



Land is generally indigenously owned and mostly administered by family heads. Share cropping
is practiced on about 20% of all farm lands. Other forms of land tenure include lease and hirilng.
Outright sale is not very common.
Thc district has many large farms of cocoa, oil palm, coconut and rice. The major food crops
include cassava, plantain, maize, etc. Rain-fed agriculture is mostly practiced and irrigation has
not yet been developed. The source of farm labour is predominantly family-based. Some farmers
also use hired labour ("by day"). Considering that farm finance is hardly available to small-scale
farmers and given the above practices, the results are generally low harvests for farmlers.
Some livestock and poultry farming is undertaken but this is mainly subsistence in nature. There
are not many commercial livestock and poultry farms in the district.
Tele industrial sector is made up mainly of mining, quarrying, maiiufacturinig, construction,
artisans and craftsmen. Mining is however the largest sub-sector in the district due to the gold,
bauxite, clay, kaolin and manganese deposits. Air and water pollution are some of the problems
associated with thcsc activities.
The manufacturing sub-sector is dominated by wood processing. Other small scale cottage
industries are pottery, alcohol distilling, soap making and bakery.
The district has seven market centers with specific market days. The major problem facing the
economic advancement of the district is the poor road network. This makes it difficult for rural
dwellers to reach the markets. The situation is aggravated during the raining seasons.
3.2.2(d)     Amansic East District
TIhe Amansie East district covers some of the communities found towards the northern end of the
proposed power line route and lying to the west of thie line. The district is located in the southern
part of thc Ashanti Region.
RchIst - Mouchcl/VRANPOTJUEIS           56



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
It shares boundaries to the west with Amansie West district; north with Bosomtwe-Kwanwoma
district and to the east with Adansi West, Adansi East and Asante Akim South districts.
The district covers a total land area of 1,899 sq km, constituting about 7.8% of the total land area
of the Ashanti region.
* Dcmographic Characteristics
The Amansie East district has a projected population size of about 225,069 with a population
dcnsity of 121 persons per sq km. and an annual growth rate of 3%. There is an estimated
migrant population of about 38% of the total population. The average household size in the
district is about 7 persons in a household.
There are more females (56%) in the district than males (48%), giving a gender ratio of 1: 1.06.
There are 45.6% in the 0-14 years group, 51.3% in the economically active group of 15-64 years
and 3. 1% over 65.
The district has over 613 settlements with the majority of them concentrated in the central part.
In spite of thc numilerous settlemcnts, the district has only two urban communities lBekwai (thc
capital) and Jacobu. The bulk of the people in the district live in rural communities having a
population size of 500 and below and classified as farmsteads.
Etilnicity and Religion: Christians make up nearly 80% of the population, while Moslems and
tiaditionalists constitute the remaining 20%. As with the other districts, Amansie East is also
poly-ethnic withi the indigenous Akans dominating.
* Economic Issues
About 80% of the available labour force in the district is employed. The main source of
employment in the district is agriculture. Agriculture contributes about 76% of the district's total
iiicoIilc, the rcmainider being derived from services and commerce.
Thc main crops in the district are maize, rice, cocoyam, yam and plantain. Another important
cconomic activity in the district is fishing from Lake Bosomtwe.
Rcl.st - Mo,iulicl/VRA/1'O ITJES        57



I'Rl:SlT-A-OBUASI T RANSMISSION LINL - FINAL. I:IS
The Amansie East hias potential to develop into a tourist center. Some of the major sites of
historical, scientific and aesthetic importance in the district include:
* The Subin, Bosomtwe and Mpampram forest reserves
* Lake Bosomtwc, the only natural lake in Ghana
* Kyekyewere - the birth place of King Osei Tutu, the founding father of the Asante Kingdbm.
(These are located in the northern parts of the district and away from the project area.)
* Social Issucs
Education: The educational facilities in the district comprise 105 pre-schools, 195 primary
schools, 87 junior secondary schools, 7 senior secondary schools and I vocational school.
As with many other districts, the majority of the primary and junior secondary schools are said to
be in a poor state of repair (cracked walls, rotten doors and window frames, rusty and leaking
roofs).
I ealth: The maini health facilities in the district are 2 government hospitals. 4 mission hospitals,
2 government healthi centers, I private clinic and I mission maternity home.
I'lic maini diseases recorded in the district include malaria, upper respiratory tract infections and
diarrilca. Malnutritioni is a major cause of ill health among the populace.
Water: Rivers and streams are the main sources of water for the majority of the population. Only
about 24% of the communities arc said to have access water from pipes, boreholes and hand-dug
wclls. However many of them still resort to the use of rivers and streams due to inadequacy and
unreliability of these sources.
Rclisl - MoucheIIVRAIOl0IJEIS             58



PRESTI.A-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINI - FINAI. EIS
3.2.2(c)     Adansi Wcst District
The Adansi West district covers the settlements at the northern end of the POTL project and
lying to the east of the line. The settlements include Obuasi the district capital, where the line
will terminate. The land area coverage of the district stands at 950 sq km with over 170
settlements, consisting of four urban and the remainder being a few semi-urban and rural
communities. Rural communities constitute the dominant settlements in the district.
The road network linking towns and villages within the district and with other parts of the
country include 13 kilometers asphalted, 69 kilometers double-surfaced bitumen roads and a
niulmber of second class feeder roads.
There is a 48 kilometers railway line from Akrokerri, through to Dunkwa in the Upper Denkyira
district and an airstrip constructed by Ashanti Goldfields Company links the district to the
national capital by air.
* Dcmographic Characteristics
The estimated size of population in the district in year 2000 is 378,539 with estimated annual
growtlh rate of 6.9% between 1994 and 2000. The district has a population density of 398 persons
pcr sq km. Almost 66% reside in urban areas with the remaining 34% residing in rural
scttlements. The most populated area is Obuasi and its immediate environs.
Apart from the five main urban communities (Obuasi, Akrofuom, Dompoase, Akrokerri and
Fomlcna), and a few semi-urban settlements, the majority of the other communities have a
popLIlation of I 000 or less. The population has a gender ratio at 103 males to 1 00 females and
the economically active population (15-60 years) constitutes 48% of the total population. This
gives a dependency ratio of 1:1.08.
Rclast - Mouclicl/VRA/I'OL UEIS         59



PRESTEA-03UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL I-IS
* Social Dcvclopmcnt
Education: There are 1 7 primary schools, 52 junior secondary schools and 6 senior secondary
schools in the district. There is only I vocational school located in the district capital and I
training college for teachers located at Akrokerri.
Health: The district has I major hospital owned and operated by Ashanti Goldfields Company.
In addition to this hospital, there are 3 public health centres, and 3 privately owned clinics.
There are also 10 maternity homes, 8 primary health centers and 2 maternal child health and
family planning centers.
The most common health problems regularly recorded in the district include malaria, upper
respiratory tract infections and, eye infections.
Water: Only four communities in the district (Obuasi, Akrokerri, Fomena and Akrofuom) have
access to pipe borne water supplied by the Ghana Water Company. There are over 88 boreholes
and 36 hanid dug wells in various settlements in the district. A substanitial number of settlcments
rely solely on strcams and rivers as their sources of water.
* Economic Dcvclopmcnt
Agriculture and mining are the main sources of income for the district. Agriculture employs
about 51% of the labour force. The main mining company in the district, Ashanti Goldfields
Company (AGC), directly employs over 10,000 persons. Apart from direct employment, thle
AGC also provides indirect job opportunities through its related subsidiary and ancillary sectors.
Thc avcrage houselhold size is 7 persons per houselhold.
L3otlh food crops and cash crops are cultivated in the district. The major food crops are cassava,
planitain, cocoyanl and pepper; the cash crops include oil palm, citrus (orange), cocoa, coffee and
kola nuts. Large quantities of oil palm and orange are produced by plantation farns for both
Relast - Mouchcl/VRA/PorrIJES            60



PRESTIA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - I:INAL [IS
local consumption and for export to other districts and regions of the country. Animal husbandry
is also undertaken in the district with cattle, poultry and pig rearing being the more common.
The major manufacturing activities are timber processing, oil palm and palm kernel processing,
brick and tile production and metal fabrication works. Others are cassava processing, block
moulding and concrete mixing for building and construction works.
Underground and surface mining activities are being undertaken in the district, especially with
the presence of Ashanti Goldfields Company.
In addition to the companies who are already in production, there are others, both local and
foreign, who have concessions and prospect for gold.
Communities where gold deposits are found include Kwabena kwa Krom, Akrokerri, Kusa,
Betenase, Nkrabea, Sikaman and Old Ayaasi. The prospects in quarrying are located in a stretch
of granite boulder outcrops from Dompoase to Akrokerri and Agogoso.
3.3   The Existing Transmission Lines (Prcstca - Obuasi)
Tlle cxisting transmission line sections between Prestea and Obuasi consist of 4 line segimients:
I) Prestea - Bogoso
2) Bogoso - Dunkwa
3) Dunkwa - New Obuasi
4) New Obuasi - Obuasi
Thc Prestea substation was commissioned in 1965 as part of the initial VRA national
tranlsimiission network that was installed with the Akosombo Hydroelectric plant.
Rclast - Mouchilc/VRA/I'(YI[UEIS       61



PREST1EA-O0IUJASI TRANSMISSION LIN: - IINAL LIS
TIhc New Obuasi substation was commissioned in 1984 to meet additional power requirements of
the then Ashanti Goldfields Corporation. The Bogoso substation was commissioned in 19QO to
supply power to the new gold mines located in the Bogoso area.
The lines consist of a total of 171 single circuit steel towers covering a distance of 11.7 circuit
km. The lines transmit power at 161 kV to the various load centers on the route.
The existing right-of-way (RoW) passes through the Opon-Mansi forest reserve over a distance
of approximately 0.8 km and through the Denyau shelterbelt reserve for a distance of about 2.25
km. Based on a width of 30 m, the area taken up by the RoW in the Oppon-Mansi reserve is
about 2.4 ha (out of a total of 116.6 sq. km or 11,660 ha) and that for the Denyau shelterbelt is
6.75 ha (out of 12.4 sq. km or 1,240 ha).
So far there have been no major incidents such as tower collapse recorded on the lines and
periodic maintenance on the lines, towers and RoW are carried out as required.
I-lowever the main constraints that have been noted are those caused by the effects of corrosion.
Due to the generally corrosive atmosphere in the mining areas, (particularly in the Prestea area),
the aluminized shieid wires on the lines have become rusted and are being replaced with
aluminium coated steel wires which have superior resistance to corrosion. Other tower structures,
insulator strings and fittings are also affected by corrosion and tilese are being replaced
periodically. The details of the 4 line segments are presented in Tabic 3.5 below:
Table 3.5: Dctails of Existing Transmission Line Scgments (Prcstca - Obuasi)
No.   Transmission Line section       Circuit kilometers.  No. of Towers in segment
I    Prestea - Bogoso                        13                     34
a___ Bogoso - Dunkwa                         66                     171
3     Dunkwa - New Obuasi                    25                     90
4     New Obuasi - Obuasi                    7.1                     16
Totals        111.1                   311
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/IPOl IJEIS         62



IREST1A-O13MJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - IINAL [IS
3.3.1  Powcr Supply to Scttlcmcnts along the Route
The VRA 161 KV transmission network supplies high voltage power all over the counlry. VRA
also supplies high voltage power to some bulk consumers such as VALCO, ALUWORKS and
the Steel industries in Tema. However, the provision of low voltage electric power for domestic
and commercial use (220v and 440v) is the responsibility of the Electricity Company of Ghana
(ECG) and the Northern Electricity Department (NED). The existence of the high voltage
network in an area provides the basis for possible extension of domestic service to settlements
within that arca.
With the commissioning of the existing line in 1965 and further expansion in 1984 and 1990 as
elaborated above, many settlements along the Prestea - Obuasi route and beyond have benefited
from electricity supplies under the National Electrification Programme and the Self-Help
Electrification Programme.
At the time of the baseline survey, the settlements along the proposed route witil electricity
supply were:
PIrcstea                 Bogoso
Damnang                  Opon Valley
Dunkwa                   Atekyem
Asikunia                 Abesewa
Obuasi
Thlc proposed project is intended to boost the existing network and ensure tihat those settlements
already connectcd to thle national grid continue to benefit from sustainable supplics. In addition.
the new line will cnable ECG to extend power to some of the communities whicih are as yet not
conniected.
Rcklisl -Mouchicl/VIA/I'OTUIA5          63






*                        H~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
7 -~~~1 
1-4  C4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4I.*  '4
LL           V
fui~~~~~~~4'3






a           WIYr-.       _______
2  ¶h.                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
17                                           I!III N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
L    i~~          ;~     p~4
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.             I~~~~~~~~I






PRESTEA - OBUASI 161 KV
TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
2 00                   1 ,4;
OBUASyO
i   S    elflS Pb  3kyere  0
oo -                              Tweapea-             0 uhyer 0
Aboagyekrr% ',Jtoes
,Borf Bisea   Awona*
Fenaso Ikwanta
Abeseta                               .
Kwameprakrom4 e                               0
Agyempaboa
0
Asiktma
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
A,       Kwaw Tewia ieodgeso/PokukromT-
Arnponsakr    po   Valley
a               A~~~~yim akrom
Abekakroa       _N_y_                _      -___
- ihu Siding
Bocos,! 1Syens fcOm
8ogosi  s\ye   Siding  Dismcr Capitls
f          *  Tonsuithm Studv Areas
AV Rail Wai Lines
PR;  E= A               /                   Mator Roads
_Reional Boundan 
_t  l1ig 3-3 MAP SHOWING COMMUNMES. ROADS AND LINES IN TH£ PROJECT AREA






Chapter 4
Assessment of Impacts
And Proposed Mitigation






PR1ESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAI FIS
4.0   SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND PROPOSED MITIGATION
During the Scoping, it was established that some environmental effccts will occur from the pre-
construction, construction and operation (and maintenance) activities of the project. Part I of
this chapter describes these various activities and the potential impacts arising from them, mainly
on thie bio-physical environment, and recommends mitigation measures that should be adopted to
minimise or eliminate the impacts where possible.
Being a "linear" project, the POTL is expected to have diverse socio-economic/cultural impacts
as it traverses many settlements. Some of the affected persons who were identified during the
study, were interviewed on various relevant issues. Part 2 of this chapter discusses these impacts
under "Socio-Economic/Cultural Impacts and Mitigation".
Finally, special issues of concern related to implementation of the project, such as the Bogoso
sacred grove, the forest reserves, EMF effects and payment of compensation which require more
clarification are discussed in Part 3 under "Special Issues of Concern".
Iabic 4.1 overleaf, is the Impact Matrix which has been used in the impact identificationi and
asscssmnent. The other tools used in the imipact identification proccdures are:
*  Environmental guidelines and literature review (including World Bank EA Source Book
Vol. 3)
* Experience gained by proponents (VRA) in carrying out similar projects in the past
*  Public and Institutional consultations
Ilhc matrix was drawn with the project activities listed on the vertical axis and the aspects of the
cnvironmnent on the horizontal axis. The interrelationship between each project activity and each
clemcnt of the environment was then evaluated to arrive at the results indicated in the matrix.
TIhc matrix demonstrates that the major adverse impacts are on land use and land related issues
arising mainly from the acquisition and clearing of the right-of-way (RoW). Others relate to loss
of flora and dispersion of fauna. The discussions follow after the matrix.
Rcl.isl - Mouchcl/VRAIl0TIJIIS          64



f'R.h,S I ILA-013l-.AS]I IRANSNIISSION LINL -- 1AS .~ 1A11'.v .) Sa
Table 4.1: Impaict Identification Matrix
Activities                        Bio-physical Environment  _ ____Sodo-cudtural Ernirowinent
Pro-conistruction
~o-Ute Survey    ~        10      0   To      o      I1101       00          010         010         0     0      00o        o 
RoW Acquisition              ojo      101     0     00 lot   l              01 __          1 
Comstnuctfon
Clearing AcceassRoute        1    0JOil       0/1   IjO/1       0     0      1    0     0     0      1, 
Tmansportation of Plant to Site  I  010/1     I     I     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0      1    0     0
Clearing RoW                0     0  j0/1    0/1    I     Ott   0     0      1    0     0     0      1
Clearing Tower Corridor     I     0]    0/1  0/1    If    0/1   0     0     0     0 
Excavating Tower Foundations  0   0     0/1   I     0     0     0                 0                                               0
Eirecti-ng To-wers        10101010101                       otojolo0                                 I           0     0 
Stringing Limes          1                                010 1  jO    o      j         010         0ij0                   0      0
Operadion___
EMF effects                O   10       0     0     0     0     010         0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     0     '
Vegetation Contol           010         0     1     1     0     010         0     0     0     0     1     1                  t1 ~ .  0
Line Maintenance             OjO        0           0     0     010         0     0     0     0     1     0     0     0     0     0
Tower Maintenance           0 ojo                   0     0     0jO         0     0     0     0    -I     0     0     0     0     0
Key:   0   No potential impact or niot signtiricant.
1   Potential effect, expected to be less significant.
3 Potential significant adverse impact,
14Potential signiificanit beneficial impact.
Rcfast - MouchcVVRAsPOTLUES                                       65



PRl:STriA-0B3lUASI I RANSMISSION l.NIA - FIS
PART I
4.1    Potential Pre-construction Impacts and Mitigation
The pre-construction activities to be undertaken for the transmission line project are line route
survcy (including selection of tower spots) and acquisition of the right-of-way (RoW).
Line Routc Survey - this takes the form of a conventional survey of route and profile of
the proposed route using topographic instruments. At selected points on the route,
concrete marking pegs are installed. VRA has already engaged surveyors to carry out an
initial route survey. The findings of the EIA and other considerations, will be used by
VRA to select the tower spots/positions. The project contractor will then be required to
carry out additional surveys to verify the route and tower spots and make changes where
necessary.
Impacts
The impacts arising from this activity (route survey) are those resulting from the partial
clearing of vegetation including somc food and cash crops within a path/lille of about I m
widc. This results in loss of income for the affected farmers.
During the consultations, a more significant impact identified from this activity, was that
rclated to uncertainlty of the Projcct schedule. Somc farmers who have route pcgs
installed on or close to their farms, claimed they were unable to proceed with further
cultivation; not knowing exactly when the project would commniece and the extent of
possible damage to their crops.
Mitig!ation
Since the proposed line is to run close to the existing line, the roads and paths already
used for line maintenance (but now overgrown) shall be used to provide access for
surveyors.
ltclist - Mouchel/VRAI'O Ir/JEIS        66



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - EIS
Destruction of crops shall be kept to the barest minimum and owners shall be consulted
and given due notification prior to any such action and adequately compensated for any
losses.
Prior to commencement the farmers/land owners shall be fully briefed about the project,
time schedule and extent of land to be affected by the project. For example, if they are
made aware that clearing of the RoW is limited to only tall trees that can pose a threat to
the line, they could maintain cultivation of crops (especially short cycle food crops)
without undue anxiety until the project finally commences.
Acquisition of Right-of-Way - once the line route and tower spots have been selected,
VRA shall acquire the RoW prior to construction of the transmission line. Under the
provisions of the VRA Transmission Line Regulations (LI 542), the RoW covers all the
area lying 15 m on either side of the centre line of the power lines. The Regulations (see
Annex 2) define the various activities (including farming, cultivation and mining), which
arc restricted in the RoW [LI 542 section i(g)(ii)].
Impacts
Acqui-irig the RoW will have a significant impact on the land ownership and land use in
the area. Any land uses that are not compatible with the RoW will have to cease or be
removed. Nearly 90%   of the line passes through farmlands and VRA intends to
compensate the farmers for the crops and any structures that will be destroyed during the
construction of the line. However once the line is in place, future use of the land will be
prohibited. This may cause a significant impact to the local farmers/landowners who will
not be able to use tlheir land leading to loss of future income - this is discussed further in
l'art 2 under Socio-Economic/Cultural impacts.
Othler land uses that will be affected by the RoW  include the miniing activities. The
existing and proposed lines cross the mniing concessions. Consultations have been held
with the mininig companies and this is also discussed in Part 2.  The impact of the RoW
througlh the Opon-Mansi and Denyau forest reserves is discussed in detail in Part 3.
Rc3ast - Mouchcl/VRAOlTUEIS             67



I'RI:Sl EA-013lJASI TRANSMISSION LINI - I:IS
Mitigation
The loss of land use under the RoW may be classified as a residual impact. The restriction
of access lo the RoW is necessary for the safety of both the transmission line and the
public. Li 542 empowers VRA to restrict access to the RoW, however, the process of
acquisition of the RoW shall be carried out with due consultations with all stakeholders
and in line with World Bank policy which requires that all land holders, including
explicitly those holding under various forms of traditional or customary tenure, are to be
compensated for loss of the land.
4.2    Potential Construction Impacts and Mitigation
Those aspects of the construction activities that give rise to environmental concerns are
discussed here in further detail. The main construction activity of concern has to do with clearing
of vegetation. Constructing the transmission line involves various levels of vegetation clearing
for the different areas (see Fig. 4-1) and these are discussed below:
* Construction Access Track - The construction of the towers begins with clearing access
tracks to get the equipment to the line route. At various selected points along the
proposed route, construction access tracks of approximately 3.5 m width (linking from
public roads), will be cleared to enable materials, equipment and maciniiiery to be
transported to the spots chosen for erecting the towers. Along the proposed route, the
farthest distance from the road to the lines is about 1.6 km (I mile) and there wilL be a
,total of about 30 km such access tracks (based on the existing lines). These tracks will be
cleared completely of all trees, stumps, scrub and vegetation to leave a graded surface.
Based on the foregoing, it is estimated that the total area of access tracks to be cleared
will be about 105,000 sq. m or 10.5 ha.
Impacts
Loss of crops and land use with the attendant loss of income, are the main impacts arising
from clearing these access tracks. Loss of vegetation cover also exposes some streams to
Rcl.ast - Mouchid/VRA/1OTUIIJEIS         68



PREISTEA-O0BUASI TRllANSMISSION LINI - EiS
high rates of evaporation. Clearing of vegetation and compaction of soils could lead to
death and/or dispersal/displacement of some faunal species.
From the nature of soils encountered, it is likely that the clearing of the land (especially at
the highl spots) and use of heavy plant and machinery will cause some erosion of the land.
Noise and dust generation will arise from the process of land clearing using machinery.
Noise impacts and dust impacts on air quality are considered to be of very limited
duration and not very significant. However impacts from dust could be significant in
places near streams or water bodies or where the tracks have to cross these water bodies,
there is the possibility of dust particles and silt contaminating the water and possible
blockage due to increased sediment loading. During consultations, it was noted that in the
past, when such water bodies get blocked during construction, communities downstream
are starved of their water sources.
Access roads open up closed areas and could enable unscrupulous persons to enter to
carry out illegal/unauthorised activities such as tree felling (by "cchaini saw" operators)
and surface/cottage mining ("galamsey" operators).
Mitigation
Loss of land use is discussed in Part 2. As much as possible, access to the line route shall
be throughi existing access tracks. Construction of new tracks shall be kept to the barest
minimum. Track routes shall be selected in such a way as to minimise any damage to
farms and crops.
After the construction phase is over, the tracks shall be replanted immediately with
appropriate ground cover, such as fast growing grasses, to check erosion and reduce
sediment runoff.
Rcla,st - Mouclicl/VRA/1OIL0US           69



PRESTEA-OlilJASI TRANSMISSION lINE - FIS
The path of access tracks shall be selected so as to avoid crossing streams and other-water
bodies. Where this is unavoidable, suitable culverts shall be installed; under no
circumstances shall water bodies be blocked to provide for construction access. The exact
number of culverts and streams to be affected shall be determined at the time of
construction and monitored by the Project Environmental team.
Removal of stream bank vegetation (especially bamboo) shall be avoided as much as
possible. Sediment traps or screens shall be installed to control runoff and sedimentation.
Warning notices ("NO ENTRY", "NO TRESSPASSING" etc.) shall be placed at entry
to access roads. In addition, random security patrols shall be carried out. The Unit
Committees in the communities shall be involved in educating the people and enforcing
these provisions.
Transporting of machinery and equipment to site - Once the access tracks are
prepared, heavy duty trucks will be used to transport construction machinery, cranes and
tower members/accessories, through the public roads and along these access tracks, to the
crccting points.
Impacts
Transporting heavy machinery through the relatively narrow  roads in the rural
communities poses risks to traffic and public safety. There will also be some minor traffic
disruptions caused by slow moving heavy trucks. Heavy trucks moving on1 the graded
access tracks will cause soil compaction and increased exposure to erosion.
Mitigation
Trucks and machinery shall display appropriate road safety signals (red flag and flashilg
amber lights).  Deliveries shall be made in daylight hours and speeds limited to
prescribed safe levels especially within towns and settlements.
Compactioni of soils along the graded tracks shall be reduced by regulating the number of
passes of heavy trucks to and from the sites.
RclasL - Mouchcl/VRA/'OlTUEIS           70



I'RESl-EA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - LIS
*  Clearing of the towcr track - After the machinery and equipment are delivered to the
sites, a tower track of approximately 2.5 - 3 m width, will be cleared along the line route
(as far as is practicable) for the purpose of erecting the towers. The specifications require
the removal of all tree stumps and roots from this track, leaving it graded, to permit the
transit of "Land Rover", "Unimog" or similar 4-wheeled drive vehicles for future patrol
and maintenance. Based on a maximum width of 3 m, the entire tower track area to be
cleared over the 10 km route is estimated to be about 310 ha.
Imnacts
Impacts arising from this activity are similar to those discussed for the construction
access track since both are completely cleared to leave graded surfaces. The mitigation
actions discussed above are therefore similarly applicable here. From experience, it is not
necessary to maintain a graded surface for vehicle access. Therefore, re-growth of limited
ground cover shall be carried out along these tracks to protect against soil erosion.
*  Clcaring and Excavating for tower foundations - Following the clearing of the tower
track, the selected tower spots will be widened further to accommodate the tower pads or
loundationis. The land area to be cleared will cover an area equal to the dimenisionls of the
tower base (about 5 m square) plus an additional 2 m on each side. Stumps in the tower
site area shall not project more than 10 cm above ground.
With an estimated 300 towers to be erected, the additional total, area to be cleared for
tower foundations is estimated to be only about I ha over the entire length of the route.
The tower foundations will consist of separate concrete footings of the "pad and
chiminey" type. (see Plate 2) Excavation for the foundations will depend on the soil type
at thc selectcd spot and will usually be between 2 - 3 m deep.
Impacts
Excavating for tower foundations will destabilise the soil structure and expose the soils to
erosion. In swampy areas, there will be the need to pump out water from the excavations
and this would further increase erosion from surface runoff and increase sediment flow
into nearby water bodies.
R:lasl - Mouchcl/VRA/IOlUITIS          71



PRIS rEA-01otJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - -IS
Mitization
The contract specifications provide design parameters for three (3) classes of soil nalliely,
Type A (poor soil - swampy areas), Type B (good soil) and Type C (unfractured rock).
The ground surface at each tower site shall be graded to provide drainage away from the
tower legs. Where necessary (particularly on sidehills), terracing, cribbing or riprap may
be used to provide protection for tower foundations.
Clcaring thc Right-of-Way (RoW) - the contract specifies that all tall trees and scrub
within a distance of 15 m on either side of the centreline of the transmission line (i.e.
approx 30 m wide area) shall be cut down to a height of not more thani 1.25 m above
ground; the ground cover is not to be removed. In addition any tall trees outside the RoW,
but of such height as could fall within 2 m of the conductors, shall also be felled. For the
entire I 10 km, the 30 m RoW will cover an area of 330 ha. Of the estimated I 10 km total
length of the transmission line, only 3.05 km passes through the Opon-Manisi and Denyau
forest reserves.
Impacts
Clearing the RoW and its immediate environs of all tall trees will result in loss of closed
canopy and reduction in the number of tree species. Cutting of trees presents
occupational/public safety risks to the workers and farmers in the vicinity. Falling trees
(especially tall trees beyond the RoW) will cause extensive damage to vegetation/crops in
the landing area.
Some faunal displacement/dispersion (especially birds) could result due to the cuttilg
downi of some trees. Loss of tree cover would lead to incrcase evaporation particularly of
small streams/water bodies.
M itigation
Removing of tall trees from the RoW is essential and unavoidable for the safety of the
power lines and may be classified as a residual impact.
RcIast - MoucheIl/VRA/1'0TUEI5          72



PRESi lA-01UASI I RANSMISSION LINE - LEIS
However, in selecting the final route, care shall be taken to minimise the number of trees
that will have to be cut. From the discussions on the baseline environment (3.1.3a), there
are no species of urgent conservation concern outside the forest reserves. Within the
reserves, the guidelines of the Forest Service Division will be strictly adhercd to.
Cutting of trees shall be done by a certified timber contractor, and strictly in lile with the
prescribed safety guidelines; those involved shall be competent workers supervised by
the Forestry Services staff. The landing area of falling trees shall be carefully selected to
minimise damage to farms. Adequate warning shall be given to ensure that public safety
is not compromised.
* Erection of towers - With an average span of about 300 - 400 m between towers, this
project will involve the erection of over 300 towers along the route. The Towers which
are about 30 -35 m high, may be erected either by assembly on the ground and lifting
with crane or by erecting in stages. The specifications allow the contractor to determine
the appropriate method to use subject to approval and supervision by VRA.
Impacts
The impacts arising from erection of towers are mainly related to occupational health and
safety. Working at heights could present hazards to the climbers and to those on the
ground from falling objects, tools etc.
Workiing with cranes and other lifting equipment also present potential injury from
brokeni wires and lifting tackle and swinging objects. When erected in place, the towers
arc quitc imposing and in areas near to settlements and at entry into the substations, they
create visual intrusion. During daylight hours, the new, shining tower members are
klnown to produce a "glare" effect as they reflect the sunlight. The other area of visual
intrusion concern is in the built up areas within the townships such as Obuasi, Dunkwa.
Bogoso and Prestea. In such instances, the prominent tower profile tends to obscure
buildings and other structures in the landscape.
Rclst - Mouchcl/VRA/'OTlJUIS             73



I'RI*SlTl:A-O03UASI I KANSMISSION LINE. - IlS
A positive impact of erecting the towers is that they become nesting sites for birds and
provide perching platforms. It is significant to note that existing transmission lincs are
clearly marked on Ghana's topographical maps (1:50,000). When driving through the
countryside the towers serve as landmarks to aid in "navigating".
Mitip-ation
The relevant provisions of the Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1 970(Act 328) and the
VRA Corporate Safety Rules 1993, will be applied at the construction sites.
Cranes, lifting gear, wires and other such items shall be tested and certified by the
Factories Inspectorate Department. All workers shall be provided with the necessary
safety clothing, helmets, boots, climbing belts etc. in addition to being trained on every
aspect of the work required including operation of specialised tools and machinery.
The VRA Safety rules provide comprehensive instructions/precautions on all aspects of
the work covcring areas such as Forestry work and Line work. In addition VRA provides
specialised insurancc for workers cxposed to highi risk work including towcr clillbing.
In VRA practice, "tower glare" is mitigated by painting the steel members withi dark grey
pigment. This also makes the towers to mergc with the natural landscape and reduces the
visual intrusion effect.
* Erection of conductors, shicld wires and othcr accessories - the conductors (wound on1
drums) and accessories (insulators, fittings ctc) shall be transported to site by suitable
trucks or trailers. Tlic conductors are wound on wooden drums - each drumll covers a
lcngth of 3 km. Thc project will require ncarly 40 such drums. The lines will be strunig
along the towers over the wholc length of the route using specialised winches. In certain
locations, the lines will cross power lines, telephone lines, rail crossings and public roads.
Rcl:ast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTlJEIS            74



PRIwS rEA-0I3LJASI T RANSMISSION LINI: - [EIS
Impacts
Stringing of lines creates impacts on occupational health and safety similar to those
discussed above. In addition, stringing the lines across public roads and railway lines will
require some temporary disruptions to traffic. Placing of the lines limits ground and
aerial movements in the vicinity of the lines. Lines can pose collision hazards to birds and
low flying aircraft as well as obstructing road haulage of tall structures.
Mitigzation
All safety precautions prescribed for tower erection shall apply to the stringing. Only
skilled personnel shall operate the stringing winches. In all cases where stringing will
cross power lines, telephone lines, public roads etc, due notification to appropriate
authorities will be given as required.
The minimum clearance for road crossings shall be 8 m and that for rail crossings shall be
9 m. In the vicinity of airports and airstrips (e.g. in the mining camps), warning spheres
shall be clamped at intervals on the shield wire according to international standards for
acrodromes issued by ICAO. The specifications stipulate that the colour shall be
"International Orange" and the diameter shall not be less than 600 mm.
Modification wvorks at Prestca and Obuasi substations - these modifications, as
outlined in Chapter 2, are mainly civil works involving minor road rehabilitation.
demolition and extension of existing buildings and erecting line termination structures.
Impacts
The impacts arising from   these construction activities are mostly sillilar to those
discussed above. Dust generation during demolition and occupational health and safety
hazards are very significant in such situations.
.la - Mouchel/VRA/POTIULS                75



Mitigation
Safety provisions of the Factories, Offices and Shops Act shall be applied at construction
sites. All workers shall be provided with the relevant safety clothing and working gear.
Prior to demolition, the area shall be appropriately barricaded and warning signals posted..
Drains from the work areas shall be directed to existing drains and prevented from
polluting any nearby water bodies. All paints, chemicals and solvents shall be stored in
safe and secure locations. Any tanks containing fuels and oils shall be properly marked
and appropriate warning notices posted on them.
4.3 Operation and Maintcnancc Impacts and Mitigation
The operation and maintenance of overhead transmission lines, just like any other
components of power systems, pose safety hazards and related problems whicih are discussed
in this section.
Operational lhazard impacts - these arise from the safety hazards associated with
transmitting power along the overhead conductors. The following, (thoughi generally very
rare in well maintained systems), are the hazards and problems that could impact on
public/occupational health and safety during the operation of overhead transmission lines:
* Dropping of Conductor - A conductor could drop as a result of either the mechanical
failure of insulator string on the tower or snapping of the conductor. The failure of an
insulator string could be caused by lightning stroke, rusting of the insulator pins or a
heavy object (possibly a tree), falling on the line. The snapping of a conductor could also
be causcd by the failure of a conductor joint.
In line with power system protection provisions, the dropping of a conductor would lead
to a grounld fault, which would automatically remove the line section involved from
service. Any object on which a live conductor falls could sustain severe burns.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/l'OTIJEIS          76



PRiSTElA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - lIS
*  Shattering of Insulator Units - shattering of insulator unit, especially porcelain type of
insulators is potential hazard to passers-by near the tower locations at the time of the
shattering. This is due to the very sharp edges of the fragmented pieces which are
normally thrown about in all directions from the tower.
*  Collapse of Tower(s) -The collapse of tower(s) would have the same effect as dropping
of conductors since the collapsed tower(s) themselves normally fall witlhin the righlt-of-
way. Tower(s) could fall due to the following reasons:
*  Rain/Wihd Storms
*  Vandalism of the tower parts
*  Lapses in Maintenance
Collapses due to rain/wind storms are not common since the lines are designed and
constructed to stand most extreme weather conditions. During the over 35 years of VRA's
transmission line operation and maintenance activities, the network has experienced only
two collapses causcd by rain/wind storms. There have also been two collapses due to acts
of vandalism.
Mitipzation of Operational hazard impacts
Althouglh they occur only rarely, almost all the harmful effects noted above have
maximum effect within the immediate vicinity of the lines. Therefore, in the interest of
public safety, access to the right-of-way by the public shall be restricted. As is the
existinig practice, all towers shall be clearly marked with a "DANGER - 161,000 Volts"
signal in red oii white background.
Impacts arising from natural causes such as lightning strikes and extremc wild gusts are
classified as residual. However, tower design includes adequate factor of safety which
takes the expected the maximum wind speeds into considerationi.
Rclist - Mouchcl/VRA/WOtIJEIS           77



PRST-ll:A-031JASI TRANSMISSION L.NIN - :IS
Regular periodic maintenance will help to eliminate dangers posed by corroded and worn
out parts of towers and accessories. VRA has a comprehensive planned and emergency
maintenance routine for the transmission lines and this will be applied on the new lines.
Specified improvements for the new line, such as the use of anti-theft fasteners on thc
tower members will check vandalism and its harmful consequences. Other improvements
include fixing of bird traps, using aluminium covered steel shield wires and improved
insulator materials. The shattering of the insulators is normally caused by lightening or
dirt and use of quality insulators as well as periodic washing of the insulators will
climniatc this problem.
Maintcnance impacts - The maintenance procedures developed by VRA fiom over more
than 35 years of operating the national transmission network, which are discussed in Chapter
2 (2.3), will be applied on the new line. Some aspects of the maintenance activities raise
issues of environmental concern such as:
*  Maintenance of right-of-way by mechanical slashing and usc of chemicals in preventing
re-growth of vegetation
*  Rust treatment and painting of towers
*  Occupational safety risks to line maintenance staff
Vegetation control in the RoW is carried out by contractors undcr VRA supervision. All tall
trees and scrubs within the RoW are cut down by mechanical means, howcver, chemical is
applied to tree stumps to prevent re-growth.
At thle substations, chemical application is used for weed control in the switchyards.
Currently VRA use GARLON 2 for control of tree re-growth and FOLAR for weed control
(details of tlhcsc chemicals are presented in Annex 4).
The use of chemicals raises concerns of potential pollution of nearby water bodies and
possible seepage into ground water. In addition there is the risk to workers arising from
Relam - Mouchcl/VIA/1'OTlUES            78



I'RI.STI:A-013UASI TIRANSMISSION lUNE - [IS
improper handling of chemicals. Rust treatment and painting of towers also pose concerns of
potential pollution of nearby water bodies.
Line maintenance has occupational health and safety implications for the staff, as they have
to patrol the often bushy tower tracks on foot and climb the towers to carry out needed
checks and repairs.
Mitigation of maintenance impacts
Chemicals used will be limited to only those chemicals approved by the EPA. Application of
chemicals will follow strictly according to the manufacturers' guidelines. Workers handling
chemicals shall be acquainted with emergency precautions outlined in the accompanying
material safety data sheets.
As much as possible painting shall be carried out in the dry seasons to minimise paint failure
and subsequent wash off into water bodies.
Work safety procedures as prescribed in the VRA Corporate Safety Rules 1993 and the
relevant requirements of the Factories, Offices and Shops Act on occupational safety shall be
strictly complied with by line maintenance staff.
*  Wastc Gcncration and Managemcnt
All aspects of the construction and operational phases discussed in 4.2 and 4.3 above will
result in generation of mainly solid waste and these will have to be disposed off accordingly.
Wastes expected to be generated from the construction phase include:
*  Vegetation - felled trees and tree stumps, leaves, under brush, shrubs etc
*  Packaging materials - conductor drums, wood, plastics, metal parts etc
Liquid waste will result from concrete works, washing of equipment, handlinig of fuels, oils
and chemicals and pumping out water from excavations.
Rclast - MouichcI/VIA/1'0 HIAAIS         79



PRCS'I'A-0131UASI TRANSMISSION lIlNI: - I IS
Waste generated from repair and maintenance of the lines include:
*  Damaged conductors and cables
*  Broken insulators (both glass and porcelain)
*  Packaging materials such as wooden crates and paper cartons
*  Organic waste from bush clearing
*  Rags and waste cloths used for cleaning
*  Special wastes in the form of empty chemical, oil and solvent containers.
With an estimated total clearing area of about 320 ha over the entire project area, the volume of
vegetation and soil waste would be quite considerable.
All wastes will be stored in areas which are isolatcd from surface drains. Trees and tree stumps
will be gathered together and made available to the communities. Other forms of vegetation
wastes will be gathered up at the sites and used for mulch or burnt depending on the situation.
Icll woodcn drums used for the conductors will be nearly 40 units and these will become
substanitial wastc. Thc wood used for the drums would be used by the local inilabitalits for
carpeintry works or even as fire wood.
Most of the non-metal solid wastes will be disposed of through the public waste collection
svstcni. The metal waste will be collected and sold as scrap to dealers.
Spccial wastes of hazardous nature will be segregated and disposed of by total destruction. The
usc of empty chemiiical and oil containers for storage of water will be prohibited.
Rc:asL - MoucIhcI/VNAIO'I0JTEIS         80



I'RIFSTI A-013UASI lTRANSMISSION LINE - LIS
PART 2
4.4    Socio-Economic/Cultural Impacts and Mitigation
During the Scoping, it was determined that the main impacts of the POTL project will be on the
people in the settlements within the project area. A field survey was conducted to assess those
aspects of the socio-economic/cultural environment that would be most affected by the project.
The affected communities are those whose lands and properties fall within the right-of-way
(RoW ) of the proposed transmission line. Within these communities, the affected persons are
those who claimed ownership of the farms/structures that may fall within the RoW. The survey
identificd and interviewed 303 persons who may be directly affected by the project.
The results and analysis of the findings of the tield survey are presented in Annex 3-7 and form
the basis for the discussions and evaluations following. The main socio-economic/cultural
Impacts arc expected to arisc from the acquisition of the RoW and subsequent enforcement of the
provisionis of LI 542 whicih restricts and prohibits various activities wilthil the RoW  . This
scctioii discusses potential impacts on various aspects of the social environment and recommends
mitigation for those that are considered to be significantly adverse.
13astd on inforimiationl gathcred from consultations with SAE - SADELMI, who have been the
maini contractors on several previous VRA transmission line projects, it is expected that the
ploject will take 12 to 18 months to complete. The main construction campsite would be located
about midway along the proposed route and the total workers required would be about 200.
* Impacts on Population and Dcmographs
The project is not expected to have any significant adverse impacts on the size of the populations
within the commiluniities. At its peak, the project will require about 200 workers. Out of this
numiiber, 60% -70% will be employed from among the local communities.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/I'OTUEIS           81



PRIESlTEA-OBUASI TIRANSMISSION lINI. - EIS
The skilled workers from outside the communities, will be about 80 in number and will be based
at the- main project camp which will be set up around Dunkwa, about midway on the proposed
route. The workers will be all males but their numbers are such that this would not alter the
gender balance to any appreciable extent.
The ethnic composition of the affected persons shows that most of them are indigenes of the
affected communities (Annex 3-7, Table #4) and this will not be significantly altered during the
duration of the project.
* Impacts on Religious/Cultural Rcsources
Thc-majority of the affected persons (265 out of 303) are of the Christian faith (Annex 3-7, Table
#6). This accounts for the fact that there were not many shrines found within the communities
and their environs.
Apart from the sacred grove enclosing the River Bogo shrine which was identified during the
Scoping, three other shrines were noted during the survey. These are in the communities of
Asikuma, Damanig and Pcmeliso. Thc people of Ayensukrom have a cemetery located withilin the
proposed RoW.
M itigation
World Bank policy as wcll as good intcrnational practice require that interfering witil shrilles and
cultural propertics should be avoided. Therefore the final selection of tower spots shall be made
in such a way as to avoid enclosing these shrines within the RoW. Where this is not possible,
conisultationis will bc hlcid with the respective Chiefs and fctish priests to consider alternative
sites and appropriate compensation to be paid for relocating the shrines. However, as much as
possible, the avoidance option shall be followed.
lRclast - MotichcINVRA/IPOTILEIS        82



PRESTIFA-01UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - I-IS
Impacts on Land usc
The total land area to be taken up by the RoW will be approximately 330 ha running along a
30 m wide strip over the entire proposed I I0 km route. The land use along the proposed route is
mainly agricultural. The only other significant land use is gold mining.
Out of the 303 affected persons identified, 282 or 93.1% are farmers (Annex 3-7, Table 12).
Most of them (I28) are engaged in cultivation of a combination of food and cash crops. 96
farmers cultivate only cash crops while another 65 cultivate only food crops. (Annex 3-7, Table
I 1). The cash crops likely to be affected are mainly cocoa and oil palm; the food crops will be
mostly plantain, cassava and maize. Some fruit plantations such as pineapple and oranges may
also be affected. The areas of the farms that fall within the RoW can no longer be cultivated once
the transmission line is in place and the loss of use will be a permanent impact.
Some of the fanns which do not fall within the RoW could still be affected if the selected routes
for construction access have to pass througli them. However, in such instances, the impact of loss
of land use may bc only short terml as the land can be re-used for farming wheni construction is
over (except il it is required as permanent access for maintenanice).
In somc instanices, construction access tracks may benefit some farmers who would be able to
use these tracks to allow trucks to reach their farms to haul farm produce.
The portion of the line between Prestea and Bogoso passes through the mineral concession
beloniging to Bogoso Gold Limited. The proposed route also passes through concessions
bclonginig to AGC in Obuasi and Dunkwa Continental Goldfields in Dunkwa.
According to section I (a) of LI 542, no mining activities can take place within the RoW,
furthermore, by section I (g) (i), no blasting can take place within 1500 ft (approximately 450
in) ol any tranismiiissioni line. The loss of miniing rights within RoW and beyond will therefore be
pcrmanent once the line is in place.
Relas( - Mouchci2/VRA/1'I0T UiS         83



PRI.SI LA-0)IAS.I I RANSMISSION .NI - H..S
Mitigation
The Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963 (Act 186) is the main law governing the acquisition
of RoW for the transmission line. Section 6 of this Act provides for payment of compensation for
such acquisitions. All landowners whose lands are permanently affccted by the project will be
paid the due compensation for the loss of use of those portions. In line with the World Bank
policy, all landowners will be identified and they will be paid the full replacement cost of the
affected lands and any properties on them. The mode of payment of compensation, as well as the
provisions of Li 334, are discussed under "Special Issues" in Part 3.
With regard to the mining companies, Continental Goldfields of Dunkwa and Ashanti Goldfields
(AGC) have written to state that the transmission line will not adversely impact on their
operations (see Annex 6-1). On the other hand Bogoso Gold have requested for a diversion of the
proposed route along their concession (Annex 6-2). VRA is working with them to resolve any
potential conflicts.
* Impacts on Employmcnt and Incomes
The project will provide direct job opportunities for about 120-140 persons from the local
communities. They will be used mainly as labourers and for the main non-specialized tasks. This
will be a positive impact on the communities. Some of the people will acquire skills on the job
wlich could lead them to other opportunities whell the project is over.
During the operation and maintenance phase, some of the peoplc would be employed by
contractors who carry out line maintenance vegetation clearing on behalf of VRA and this would
be an additional benefit.
Apart from these direct jobs, the project would also create indirect job opportunities like catering
for the workers, whichi would be taken up by women in the communities.
Loss of crops during the land clearing phase and loss of land use for farming; witlhil the RoW
will impact adversely on the incomes of the people. With a generally highl level of dependelncy
(average of 6-12 dependants per household see Annex 3-7, Table #5), any appreciable loss of
income will affect many more persons and possibly entire communities.
Rcl'st - Mouchicl/VRA/1OlI0EIS         84



PRESTEA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - EIS
Employment created by the project and the incidental indirect jobs created will help to boost the
levels of incomes. This impact, though positive, will only bc of a rather limited duration.
Mitization
Loss of income resulting from loss of crops and land use shall be adequately compensated for.
As much as possible, the farmers shall be encouraged to acquire new lands to restore the farm
income base. Compensation shall be at economic rates and shall make provision for loss of
future incomes. Furthermore, in recruiting the local labour, priority shall be given to capable
dcpcnidanits of older farmers and women whose farms are affected.
* Impacts on Public Hcaltli and Safety
As discussed earlier in sections 4.2 and 4.3, various aspects of the construction and operation of
the transmission line could affect water sources in the project area.
This would impact adversely on the health of the people in the communities, most of whom do
not have access to safe water sources such as pipe borne water or boreholes. The main potential
adverse impact on public health and safety arises from dangers associated with operational
problems that could occur on the live transmission lines which have been covered under section
4.3.
I-lTe otlher issue is that relating to the effects of electromagnetic fields on human health, this is
also discussed in sufficient detail under "Special Issues".
MI iti2ation
Mitigation mcasurcs for protecting water bodies from effects of construction have alrcady been
recoimmenlded under 4.2. These shall be monitored for strict compliance to ensure adequate
protection of thcse sources of water for the communities. The Provisional EMP in Chapter 7 also
outlines guidelines for pollution prevention which shall be implemented accordingly.
lrotcction of the public from the hazards of transmission lines shall be ensured by maintaining
strict adherence to the RoW protection regulations.
Reliast - Mouchcl/VRA/1T0WEIS           85



PRESTEA-OILIASI 1 RANSMISSION L.NIN - I:IS
PART 3
4.5   Special Issues of Conccrn
This section discusses various issues of concern relating to the implcmncitatioil of the POTL
project. These are issues that require a clearer understanding in order to properly evaluate themll
and the discussion does not follow strictly in the order of impacts and mitigation as used in Parts
I and 2.
The issues identified and discussed are:
* The Bogoso sacred grove
* The Opon-Mansi and Denyau Forest Reserves
* Electromagnetic Field (EMF) effects
*  Compensation issues
4.5.1 Impact on Sacred Grovc at Bogoso
The River Bogo at Bogoso has a shrinie in a grove located at the out skirts of Bogoso towlnshlip.
During the Scoping, it was notcd that the grove falls withini thc RoW  of the proposed
transmission line. The current area of the grove is approximately 0.5 ha, portions of which have
been encroached by farms and building plots.
The shrinie of the river is located in a relatively undisturbed wooded core area of approximately
0.25 ha. The vegetation is typically a swamp forest dominated by the Raphia palm, Rap7hia
hookei-i (ADOBE).
The forest is poor in species and has a broken canopy that reaches up to 20 m in height. Some of
thc tree species encountered are Arlocalpus incisus (BREAD FRUIT), Myrinlnhus libeiricus
(NYANKUMA NINI), Plerocarpus sanialinoides (HOTE). Ahihocleisla nobilis (BONTODEE),
Funtunia elaslica (FRUNTUM), Carapa procera (KWAKUO BESE) and the oil palm Elaeis
guineense (ABE).
Rl"amt- MouchclVRAA,oTn,I/IS           86



PRESTIA-01WASI TRANSMISSION LINE - IIS
The shrubs and herbs include Chromolaena odorala (AKYEAMPONG), Hypselodelphys
violacea, Pnuenialopleris afer, Acroceras zizaniodes, Culcasia scandens and Alchornea
cordifolia (GYAMA). All of the species encountered occur widely in Ghana and have no urgent
conservation requirement.
During the study, consultations were held with the grove keeper, Mr. David Attobrah in the
presence of Assemblyman Mr. Seth Gyimah, who is also Assistant Headmaster of the local
Senior Secondary School. The grove keeper explained that every third week, sacrifices are
pcrformed at the shrine on sacred days known as Adumi days which fall on Wednesday, Friday
and Sunday. He further explained that the River Bogo no longer flowed downstream near the
shrine due to mining activities upstream that have blocked the branch that passes by the grove. It
was understood that they could relocate the shrine to a location of their choice, after performing
the necessary rites.
The grove is located near the point where it is proposed to divert the proposed route away from
thc Bogoso townslip and thus avoid any impacts of the RoW on the urban settlements. The final
sclcction of the towcr spot shall be made so as to lcave the grove undisturbed.
4.5.2. The Opon-Mansi and Denyau Forcst Reserves
Figs. 4-2 and 4-3 are enlarged portions of Topographical Maps (1:50000) showing the
transmissioni line route passing through the Opon-Mansi and Denyau forest reserves respectively.
The line passes along the edge of the Opon-Mansi reserve and crosses at points Al and A2 as
shown on the map. The total distance of the line througlh this rcserve is approximately 0.8 km.
Based on a width of 30 m, the land area taken up by the RoW in the Opon-Mansi reserve is
about 2.4 ha (out of a total of 1 16.6 sq. km or 1 1,660 ha).
The line crosses twice through the Denyau Shelterbelt reserve at points Al and A2 and again at
A3 and A4 as shown on the map. The estimated length over the 2 crossings is approximately
Relast - Mouchcl/VRAJPOTrUEIS           87



I'RESTEA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - EIS
2.25 km. Based on a width of 30 m, the land area taken up by the RoW through thc reserve is
about 6.75 ha (out of a total of 12.4 sq. km or 1,240 ha).
In relative terms, the impact of the proposed RoW on these reserves is not expected to be very
severe. Towcr spots shall be selected to minimise tree felling as much as possiblc. The
possibility of using double circuit towers in this area so as to maintain the existing RoW shall
also be considered.
The baseline studies indicated that the reserves contain some species of conservation
significance. Consultations have been initiated with the Forest Service Division of the Forestry
Commission. They have indicated that they would provide guidelines regarding felling of trees
within the RoW and appropriate compensation requirements. In particular, the Division will
appoint a registered timber contractor to harvest the trees within the RoW.
4.5.3 Electromagnetic Ficld (EMF) Effects
* Introduction
Electromagnetic fields (EMF) occur both as natural phenomenon and in man-made forml. They
are created whenever a voltage is present or whenever a current is flowing. In nature EMF
occur, as in lightening and in other phenomena such as the northern lights (aurora borealis)
caused by thc interaction of solar wind and the earth's magnetic field.
Since the early 1 880s when public clectricity supplies were introduced, man has lived
increasingly in electric and magnetic fields that vary with time (oscillate). However, electricity
tranismiiission, distribution and generating equipment is by no mcans the only sourcc of man-lliadc
EMF. Such. fields are everywhere, they are created by wiring circuits in homes, including
currents that are induced in water and gas pipes.
In addition, all electrical appliances and equipment, together witlh electric trains and other forms
of transport, even the motor car, all produce EMF. It is almost impossible to avoid man made
electric and magnetic fields.
Relast - Mouchcl/VRA/i'OTrUEIS          88



PRESTEA-013UASI T RANSMISSION LINE - EIS
Over the last twenty years a debate has raged over the impact of electro-magnetic fields (EMF)
on human health. Power lines in particular have become a focus for conflicting conclusions.
This subsection comprises a review of the current state of knowledge surrounding the human
health implications of electricity transmission lines. This information is gathered from a
database literature search of current scientific journals, government agency studies and utility
sponsored reports. The study aims to provide a clear and independent summary of the spectrum
of findings on the topic and present the expert consensus of opinion.
* Power lines and Electromagnetic fields
Power lines produce both electric and magnetic fields:
*  Electric fields are produced whenever there is a voltage - the pressure behind the flow of
electricity. The higher the voltage the stronger the field.
*  Magnetic fields are produced by current - the quantity of electricity flowing. The greater the
current the stronger the field.
The electromagnetic spectrum, Figure 4.4 overleaf, shows the wavelength of the electric and
magnetic fields transmitted by power lines.
Plower in most of thc world, including Ghana, is provided at an alternating current (AC) of 50
1-lcrtz. This has a wavelength of 5000 km. The fact that exposure to power frequency fields
occurs at distances that are much shorter than the wavelength of 50/601Hz radiation has ilmportant
iniplications, because under such conditions (called near field) the clectric and magnetic fields
can be treatcd as independent entities.
Rlclast - Mouclhcl/VRA/iPOTUEIS          89



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINI - EIS
static pcwer     AM   FM radio microwve heat tanning    medical
field liie      radio   TV   oven     lamp both         x-rays
10   id4   102    1    1i2  1l4   10i6 18    1010 1)-12
6          l           I   I      I   i  l  l   
Wavelength (meters)
Frequency (Hz)
102   104   106  108   1010  1012  10614  1016  1'01  1020
ELF         Radio           Infrared  U         X-ray
(A IF)Y        (IR)  Si Utkr5a*Lot
(MW)B              (V
Non-Ionizing           E       Ionizing
Non-thermal       Thermal        Optical     Broken bonds
Low induced      High induced   Electronic   DNA Damage
currents         currents      exctatbn
????            Heating  Phctochemtal effects   OElvIoder
Figurc 4.4. The Electro-Magnctic Spectrumi'
EMF sources produce no appreciable radiation in contrast to the electro-magnetic radiation of
smaller wavelengths in which the electric and magnetic fields are inextricably linked.  Low
frequency electromagnetic fields are known as non-ionising radiation, since the amount of
energy in them is far below that required to break molecular bonds such as those in DNA. These
electro-magnetic fields may have more subtle health impacts.
* EMF and human health
The National Radiological Protection Board (NRPB), which has responsibility for providing
advice to the UK Government on appropriate restrictions on EMF exposure, has produced
guidelines in the form of investigation levels for mains frequency magnetic fields of 1600
Irlicrotesla and for electric fields of 12 kilovolts per metre.
Both apply to the head, neck and trunk and are intended to avoid the possible effects of induced
cLirreint oni functions of the central nervous system. The electric field is greatly reduced in
ilaginitude within the human body, because the body itself is an electrical conductor. Currents
induced in the body by fields of less than IkV/m or 5OjiT are weaker than those that occur
naturally in the body".
Rcla'I - Mouchcl/VRA/1'0ITI JIIS           90



PRESITEA-O01lJASI TRANSMISSION lINL. - IIS
The only realistic possibility of health effects come from the magnetic field component of EMF
which is not significantly shielded inside the body. Table 4.2 shows examples of magnetic field
levels from different sources.
'I'able 4.2. Indicative values of magnetic fields (after Campion, 1997)
Source of Magnetic Field                Typical value of power frequency
magnetic fields micro Tesla (gT)
The Earth's static magnetic field                      50
Ficlds that occur naturally in the body                50
Oscillating 110/220 V current in houses             0.01-0.05
Directly under oscillating high voltage               3-10
transmission lines
Electric razor close to head                           60
It is the study of these magnetic fields and a potential link to cancer (especially in children), that
lias caused so muchi controversy over the past 20 years. A detailed presentation of the history of
Medical Researcih into EMF and cancer is attached in Annex 4-3
The world's largest independent epidemiological investigation (the study of incidence of disease
across defined populations and possible causes), is currently being conducted by the UK
Childlhood Cancer Study. The survey looked at every child with leukaemia in the UK over a
four-year period. Results, published in December 1999, for the effect of magnetic fields on
cancer have and found nothing to link childhood cancer to magnetic fields from electricity
supply. The results conclude: 'This study provides no evidence that exposure to magnetic fields
associated i'iith the electricity supply in the UK increases risks foir childhood leukaenzia, cancers
of the centrcal nervous system or any olher childhood cancer. '
To date over 10, 000 scientific papers have been produced on EMF and over eighty independent
and authoritative scientific panels have concluded that it has not been established that mains
frequency EMF cause adverse human health effects.
Relasl - Mouchel/VRAIPOTIJEIS          91



I'RES'I-I:A-oILJASI 'I'RANSMISSION LINE - I:IS
*  Potential EMF impacts of the proposed Prestea - Obuasi Line.
Immediately below overhead power lines the maximum electric and magnetic fields encountered
at ground level are shown on Table 4.3
Table 4.3 Maximum Electric and Magnetic Fields below power lines
Line voltage             Magnetic field ItT       Electric ficld kV/m
275 000                  40                       7.7
132 000                  I 1                      3.8
33 000                   7                        0.7
I1 000                   7                        0.2
415                      1                        <0.001
(source: The National Grid Company and NRPB)
The proposed Prestea-Obuasi transmission line will operate at 161 kV which suggests a magnetic
field of 15-20JiT and an electric field of 4-6kV/m.
The magnetic field beneath a 400,000 volt overhead transmission line falls off rapidly with
distance and reaches typical background levels within two or three hundred metres of the power
line. Likewise. the electric field strength decreases rapidly away from the line and is at typical
ambient levels of up to 10 volts per metre at about I00m, distance"'. Figure 4-5 shows the
reduction in a magnetic field for various EMF producers including a 400kV transmission line.
Rclal - Mouclhc/VRA/i'OTUr3IS          92



PIRI SIl A-OI WAsY IRANSN1IS.I()N lIN I -I'
1         1mT
im~~~~~~~~~6ac PT 
l    Op
-  I10pT
100 nT
0-1  ~ ~    110                         tOD
2 Magnetic field versus distance for a 4D0 kV overhead transmission linie
measured at Romney Mlarsh in the south-easl of England (red), a 400 kV
undorqround cable in central Londoni lblue;, an electric can opener (purple)
l i,guIC 4-5: RZeCucLtion in1 I.MI with distance lor diffieciit l.MI cmiters"
*   Hluman hcalth imp.act
l ieie are tw\o lorms of' possible c lIeCts on 11huLIall health, C dilecC cffects resultinIg froni0 tIe
Interaction of lic ENI MI: l with the huliLanll body anid inidirect celicts resultilng lolim an iliteraction
hCt\CeCII thC FI MF. all extCrnlal object suLCi as a vehicle or other mietalliC structure alid th1e humlian
blodly.
a. D)irect cffccts: Ihlie pr-edicted EIMF levels below tilc powcrlintc ar-c wcll below the N1'RI13
ptuidelines stated on page 4-26.
c  ixi - Mm,idicl/V RA/'(i I I /1 IS        93



I'RESTILA-01UASI TRANSMISSION l .NI: - I:IS
This limit is to guard against acute effects, the NRPB having decided that the evidence on cancer
is not sufficient to justify setting limits. The only potential human health impact lics in the
contentious link to cancer explored in the literature review, which concluded that at present this
should not be considercd a significant impact.
If there is any potential impact it will be within a short distance of the transmission line because
the magnetic field strength diminishes rapidly with distance. The magnetic fields of the 161,000
volt transmission line should reach background levels at approximately one to two hundred
metres.
b. Indirect effects: An electrically grounded person touching an ungrounded metallic object in
a static or oscillating field may draw electric current from the object and may experience a micro
shock (spark discharge). These effects are limited by the presence of safcty features called
multiple carthings.
Pace makers or other electrically or magnetically sensitive prosthetic devices may be affected by
l MF lowcr thani those that correspond to the basic restrictions but thesc effects are very rare.
Advice on their usc should be obtained from  the manaufacturers or thosc respolnsible for
implanting such devices.
* Fear impact
Perhaps the most serious impact is the perceived danger of the transmission    lines.
Electromagnetic fields are not generally understood by the public. They calnot be fclt, tasted,
seen, or touclied. Added to the fear that it may cause cancer or harm children, this could create
paniic. In the UK and other developed countries, this has been known to affect property prices
and mobilise local action against the construction of new transmission lines.
* Mitigation of EMF effects
Location: The first major mitigative measure is to build power lines away from
pcople/settlements. It is essential that new transmission lines are built away from existing homes.
Rclast - Mouclhi/NRA/POTULEIS            94



PRI:S'I I:A-01UASI TRANSMISSION LINF - EIS
However, once the line is built the utility may have no control over people who choose to build
homes close to or underneath the line in contravention of the existing regulations.
Earthing: The largest source of average population exposure to magnetic fields is the protective
multiple earthing of low-voltage distribution networksv. Earthing reduces the chances of people
getting electric shocks and the chances of any shocks being fatal. To remove this source of
exposure would be a trade off of a hypothetical reduction in an unknown risk from magnetic
Fields for a real increase in electric shiock casualties.
Screening: Electric fields can be shielded easily while magnetic fields cannot. Buildings
typically screen electric fields by a factor of 10-100. Magnetic fields pass through most
materials iicludinig the carth and buildings. It is mainly this characteristic which has focused
rccent attention on magnetic rather than electric fields.
Communication: The electricity providcrs lhave a responsibility to address peoples' conccrins
and to address theni without causing unnecessary alarm or concern. However, the utility should
not pro-actively communicate with people who have not expressed a concern for two reasons. If
somethilng is an actual public healthi issue it would be the utilities' duty to tell the public about it
and clearly if there is widespread concerm, it would be right to deal with the concern.
I-lowever, in this case there is little evidence of harm and low levels of public concern.
Tlicrcfore to communicate pro-actively would create anxiety and alarm where none exists at
pi'csent. doing more harm than good. However, during the implemenitation phase, the necessary
coiimmunity education shall be effected.
4.5.4 Payment of Compensation
Thc need for establishinlg and protecting the RoW  for the transmission line is a must for the
safety of the lines and the public as a whole. However, a major issue of concern for the
Rclast - Mouchel/VRA/PO IIJEIS           95



PRI:S l'I.A-()13lASI 'I'RANSMISSION l.lNI - I.IS
implementation of the project has to do with the payment of compensation for lands acquired for
the RoW.
*  VRA's Procedurcs for acquisition of RoW and paymcnt of compensation
VRA acquires land for the RoW under the provisions of the Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act,
1963 (Act 186) and the Volta River Development Act, 1961 Act (46). The VRA (Transmission
Lines Protection) Regulations, 1967 (LI 542) regulates activities within the RoW.
Both Acts 46 and 186 provide that compensation must be paid to people whose estate or interests
are injuriously affected by the acquisition of RoW. The procedure for applying for compensation
is duly outlined in the Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, L.l. 334, with a sample form
provided for the use of potential applicants. Compensation may be claimed for damages caused
by survey works as well as damages arising from actual site works. In addition, L.I. 346, whici
is an amendment of L.I. 334, outlines the procedure for appealing against compensation awards.
The Ghana Land Policy, 1999 provides guidelines and policy actions for the various forms of
land use - agricultural, forestry, extractive, human settlement, infrastructure etc. These are aimed
at enhanicing conservation of environmental quality, preserving options for the present and future
genierations and securing human sustenance.
Amonloig the key objectives of the Land policy which are of relevance to the POTL project are:
*  Protection of the rights of landowners
*  Ensuring paymenlt, within reasonable time, of fair and adequate compensationi for land
acquired
*  Promoting community participation and public awareness at all levels in sustainiable land
maniagement.
IFurtherilmore, the 1992 Coilstitutioln of Ghana by Articie 20, prescribes that fair and adequate
compensation should be paid to all persons affected by state acquisitions.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRAMPOTIAIEIS          96



PRESTlA-Oil3UASI 1TRANSMISSION LINE - EIS
The procedures used by VRA to ensure that all persons affected by the transmission line project
are catered for are outlined overleaf:
1. Referencing of all properties, both crops and buildings, by officers of the Land Valuation
Board (LVB) to be supervised by Estate Surveyors from Real Estate and Environment
Department of VRA.
2. Assessment of the compensatable values would be done by the LVB and the valuation
advice forwarded to VRA.
3. The assessed report would be vetted and corrections effected where necessary to ensure
that the amounts are accurate and fair to the Authority. These would theln be processed
for payment.
4. Offers would be made to the claimants on the basis of the LVB's advice.
5. Claimants dissatisfied with the offer have a right to petition for reconsideration.
In this regard, such claimants are required to submit counter proposals supported by
valuation prepared by private valuers of their choice.
6. The private reports are considered by VRA in conjunction with the LVB to ensure that
claimants are treated fairly.
7. Where necessary the dissatisfied victims would be invited to negotiate and arrive at
acceptable figures.
Community conccrns
It was widely claimed by the affected persons during the interviews, that VRA usually takes
pieces of land belonging to individuals as "access to RoW" for their transmission line.
Commllunity leaders are of the view that VRA does not properly acquire such lands. As such.
VRA does not pay compensation to individuals who have not yet put their lands to use.
Members of some communities also indicated that it is not safe to farm on the RoW for health
rteasons. Therefore, the community mcmbers do not understand why people are not compenisated
lor the land they lose to VRA for their power transmission purposes.
Rcl:ast - Mouchcl/VRA/IOlTUEIS          97



PRES rEA-01JASI TRANSMISSION lINL - IIS
This practice of "obtaining access to RoW" instead of outright land acquisition by VRA is
considered by the majority of the opinion leaders contacted during the survey as exploitation.
They therefore called for a review of this practice during the implemcntation of the POTL
project.
Other issues raised by opinion leaders include delays in payment of compensation and failure to
compensate for crops and properties that are usually destroyed when such projects are carried
out. According to them, some of the consequences of delayed payment of compensation is that
some affected persons end up losing their claim documents, and either lose everything or go
thl-ough a lot of difficulties before receiving their compensation.
Other concerns expressed by some opinion leaders and community members have to do with
survey damages to crops on the proposed transmission line route, during the initial survey work.
According to the complainants, no information was taken from the affected persons by the
surveyors to show whether or not those damages will be compensated for.
From thic responses (Annex 3-7, Table#]14), the fears expressed by most of the respondenits have
to do with being denied access to their farms, which are their only source of income (59.4%). In
addition, there are fears that the disbursement of compensation funds will be delaycd.
Otlhcr fcars expressed conccrn the inadequacy of compensation commensuralc with damagcd
crops (9.9%) and lands that will not be compensated for because there are no crops/property on
thcm. According to the respondents such lands for the RoW will be permanently taken without
con1pcnsationi being paid to the owners.
* Comnients on thlc compensation issues
It is obvious from the foregoing that VRA pays compensation only for the structures and crops
tlhal arc dcstroycd duriiig the implcmentation of the project and not for the value of the land
affccted (including future land use). This is the main issue of contention from the point of view
of the affected farmers, since after payment for the actual crops destroycd is rcceived, thcy can
no longer farm freely within the RoW. They therefore expect to be paid fully for the value of the
Rcktsl - MoucheI1VRI'0Pl lJEIS          98



PRESTEA-01311ASI lTKANSMlISSION IANI - LIS
land "lost". For some of the farmners, delays in payment of compensation could affect them
adversely as credit facilities for such farmers are non existent.
* Plan of Action
The proposed plan of action on compensation is in line with World Bank policy which requires
that all land holders, including explicitly those holding under various forms of traditional or
customary tenure, are to be compensated for loss of the land.
In the light of the concerns raised by the communities, and considering the current developments
in participatory approach to resolving social conflicts, the following will apply:
1. The procedure for payment of compensation for affected persons shall be reviewed to
ensure that "fair" and adequate compensation covers loss of future land use and prices
shall reflect the prevailing market values.
2. Since most of the farmers are illiterates, District Assemblies shall be involved in thc
whlolc comipcnsationl process to safeguard their interests.
3. Compenisationi payments shall be handlcd promptly to avoid imposing undue hardslhip on
the rural farmers and also avoid any conflicts with the communities.
As discussed in Chapter 1, the requirements of the Energy Commission for, obtaining permits for
development projects in the energy sector include proper title to lands on which the project is
Imlplemented. Considering the objectives of the Land Policy, it is obvious that there are conflicts
betwecin thc carlicr legislation on RoWs (Act 186, Act 46, LI 334, LI 346) and the Transmission
Lincs Protectioni regulations (LI 542). It is therefore recommended thiat all these laws should be
reviewed and harmiionized where necessary.
Tihls position has becn supported by the Executivc Secretary of the Energy Commissioni during
thc subsequcnl consultationls held to discuss the EIS review comments.
Rclast - Mouch,cl/VRA/1OTlIJI.IS         99



I'RI:STEA-013JASI TRANSMISSION lINF - I-IS
The Energy Commission has determined to initiate action towards the harmonizationi of all
legislation affecting the acquisition of land for energy based utility supplies. VRA will offer tihe
necessary cooperation to ensure that these issues are reso]vcd in the best interest of all
stakeholders.
References for EMF discussions
'Moulder, J.E. (2000) Electromagnetic fields and Human Health. Medical College of Wisconsin
www.mcw.edu/gcrc/cop/powerlines-cancer-FAQ/toc.html
" Moulder, J.E. (2000) Electromagnetic fields and Human Health. Medical Collegc of Wisconsin
www.mcw.edu/gcrc/cop/powerl ines-cancer-FAQ/toc.htmI
National Grid (UK) data, www.national rid.com/uk/environment/mnn_emf.htrill
Swanson, J Renew, D. and Wilkinson, N (1996) Powerlines and health. Physics World Nov. 1996
Swanson, J. (I1998) How should a responsible utilily react to ihe EMF issue? Paper presented at ithe conference,
Mechanisms and Consequences of Power Frequency Electromagnetic Field Exposures, held at Bristol University on
241t-25Ih September 1998.
Rclast - Mouclicl/VRA/I'OTUEIS                  100



F~~~~~~~~~
LEGEND
A - CONSTRUCTION ACCESS TRACK - FULLY CLEARED/GRADED - 3.5m x 1 Skmi APPROX
1S - TOWER CORRIDOR TRACK - FULLY CLEARED/GRADED - 3ri x 110km
C - TOEER BASE AREA -FULLY CLEARED -5m x 5m x number of lbw/  m
D- TOWER BASE BUFFER - SLASH TO 10,m - 2m x Sm x 2 No. of Towem
E - RIGHT-OF-WAY (RoW) - SLASH AND CUT TREES TO I .25mi- iSin x 2 x FULL LENGTH (110km)
i                  F - AREA BEYOND ROWj CUT ONLY THREATENING TREES
PUBLIC ROAD               .       D 
__________                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fig. 4-11SKETCH SHOWING VARIOUS LEVELS OF VEOETATION CLEARING IN PROJECT AREA



PRESTEA-OBUASI 161Kv
TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
ENLARGED TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING THE TRANSMISSION LINE CROSSING
THE EDGE OF THE OPON-MANSI FOREST RESERVE
Fig 4-2
LEGEND
Refast
---    ---*TRANSMISSION LINE
Mouchel                                         -   -  *BORDER OF FOREST RESERVE






PRESTEA- OBUASI 161 KV
TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
ENLARGED TOPOGRAPHIC MAP SHOWING THE TRANSMISSION LINE CROSSING
THE EDGE OF DENYAU SHELTER BELT FOREST RESERVE
Fig 4-3_
LEGEND
Refast                                                    TRANSMISSION LINE
T  B   F   BORDER OF FOREST RESRVE
Mouchel






Chapter 5
Monitoring






PREST:A-I131JASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
5 MONITORING
It is important that appropriate monitoring criteria are established to verify the predicted impacts
of the project on the environment and adjust the mitigation measures wlhere necessary.
Monitoring programmes would be instituted and carried out to cover the under listed areas and
relevant records would be kept to ensure compliance with sound environmental practices
recommended in this study.
The project environmental coordinator shall oversee and report all monitoring activities and
results to the Director of Real Estate and Environrment Department, VRA.
The monitoring criteria are outlined under the following iheadings:
*  Construction Phase
* Waste nmanagement
*  Operations and Maintenance Phase
* Socio-ecoiionmic/cultural issues
5.1   Constructional Phase
* Transportation
Guidelines provided under section IV of the VRA corporate safety rules 1993 concerning
equipment, motor vehicles and transportation of personnel and materials shall be applied and
closely monitored and recorded. These will include monitoring the following activities:
* Speed Limits of vehicles, traffic congestion on main roads (near project sites)
* Trucks conditionis and maintenance
* Vehicular accident records
* Vehicle safety signals (flares, warning liglhts, reflectors etc)
* Vehicle fueling procedures
* Vehicle loading/off loading procedures
* Vchicle daily check outs
* Driving licenises and permit to drive
* First Aid and Fire Extinguishing kit
ReLast . MoumidelRAf/10TA JEIS          101



PRESTEA-OBUJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Civil Works
Activities to be monitored under civil works will cover safe working practices in accordance
with VRA Corporate Safety Rules 1963 and Factories, Offices and Shops Act !970 (Act 328).
Monitoring criteria would include:
* Protective clothing and working gear
* Noise levels (settlements, shrines, etc)
* Plant and equipment maintenance
* Safety Test - lifting plant gears (wires, hoisting blocks etc,)
* Dewatering operations
* Concrete works
* Water quality (rivers/streams)
* Fire patrols (site camps)
* Dust levels (settlements/watercourses)
* Waste management and disposal
* Vcgetation Clearing
Clcaring of vegetation cover at tower tracks, constructioh accesses, and right-of-way shall be
Illonlitorcd under the following activities:
* Tree felling (forcst reserves)
* Clearing of farms lands
* Clearing of right of way (vegetation cut only to 1.25m height)
* Clearing of tower track (graded width 2.5m-3m)
* Clcaring access tracks (graded width 3.5m)
5.2    Wastc Management
* Burninig of waste bush
* Waste water hlanidling
* Waste segregation
* Waste dump sites
* Disposal of conductor drums
* Disposal of metallic waste
* Disposal of empty chemical containers
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/I'OTUEIS            102



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
5.3   Operation and Maintenancc Phase
* Use of weed and tree killers (Garlon2E and Folar)
* Routine ground/aerial inspection of lines
* Towers (vandalism, corrosion)
* Insulators and accessories (damages, replacements)
* -Accidents involving lines and structures
* Occupational hazards and accidents
* Accidents affecting public safety
* Substations - oily wastes, transformer oil (PCBs)
5.4   Socio-economic/cultural issues
*  Shrines
*  Sacred Grove
*  Identifying all affected persons
*  Assessment of compensation
*  Payment of compensation (adequate amounts, timely payments)
*  Employment and job creation
*  Standard of living of local residents
Comprehensive record keeping and documentation shall be maintained for the above as proposed
in the Provisional Environmental Management Plan in Chapter 7.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRANPOTUEIS            103






Chapter 6
Consideration
Df Alternatives






PRESTEA-OBUASI T RANSMISSION LINFI - FINAL FIS
6 CONSIDERATION OF ALTERNATIVES
During the project planning stages and as a major component of this EIA assignmient, various
alternatives have been considered and these are discussed below.
6.1  "No-development" scenario
As indicated earlier in section 1.3, the National transmission network currently faces severe
constraints particularly on the Western sector. System studies and observations have shown that
the existing transmission system is not capable of withstanding single contingencies involving
loss of the following line segments:
i.  Akosombo - Kumasi
ii.  Obuasi - New Obuasi
iii.  Aboadze - Winneba
i v. Prestea - Bogosu
The loss of any of the first three (i - iii) above results in transmission line overloads on the
Prestea - Bogosu line section, with unacceptable voltages in the Northern and South-Westerm
scctors. Under such circumstances, some sections of the line have been observed to sag rather
scvcrely especially during periods of high ambient temperatures (30°C - 40°C) and this creates
very dangerous conditions. The loss of the Prestea - Bogosu line results in total collapse of the
transmission system.
The expected commissioning of additional generation capacity in the Western part of Ghana
(300 MW at Aboadze and 140 MW GNPC plant as Effasu) further affects the capability of the
transmission network to support the delivery of power. The Load flow analysis reveals that under
suclh conditions, the loss of any segment of the transmission system will result in a total system
collapsc.
Rctiast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS           104



PRIESTIA-O01tJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - I:INAL lIS
It is thus envisaged that the commissioning of the POTL project by this year, 2000, will provide
the system with the needed reinforcement to maintain its reliability. Furthermore, the analysis
indicates that system losses are reduced by about 8.4 MW as compared to the case without the
POTL. Incorporating the new line into the studies shows substantial gains for the period 2000 -
2005.
Substantial energy gains for the period 2000 - 2005 due to reduced system losses. The estimated
energy gains are as follows:
2000         -     39 GWh
2001         -     54 GWh
2002         -     69 GWh
2003         -     53 GWh
2004         -     38 GWh
2005         -     22 GWh
Witlh the POTL project estimated to cost about US$ 12.5 Million, and using a cost of unscrvcd
energy of 0;25 cents/kWh and a discount rate of 10%, the Net Present Value of Economic
Benefits is estimated at about US$ 65 Million.
A "'no-development" option will therefore leave the entire National transmission system at very
scvere risk with sustained losses. This condition will also adversely affect VRA's energy
transactions with La Cote d'lvoire and also with Togo and Benin Republics.
6.2  Upgrading cxisting facilities
A possible alternative to constructing the new line could be replacing the existinig towers with
double circuit towers. This option will mean that the Ruling Span, a factor that reflects the
electrical and mechanical strength of the lines, would change and a completely new line and
towver design would become necessary.
RcIsim - MouchclNVRAPOTUEIS            1 05



PRlESTLA-Oi30ASI TRANSMISSION LINI. - FINAL. IS
Furthermore, double circuit towers will require new tower foundations to support the heavier
structures that result from the double circuit configuration.
1lowever, considering the urgent need for the implementation of the POTL project, this option is
not feasible as it will require an extensive period of outage on the existing line with no supplies
to the mines and surrounding communities and will place even more severe stress on the
remainder of the network.
6.3  Alternativc modes of transmission
Apart from overhead transmission, the other altemative mode of transmission considered is
underground transmission. Within the existing VRA network, underground cables are used
mainlly in the NED operational areas and in limited situations over very short distances ( i.e.
linkages to some ECG Bulk Supply points).
For the high voltage and the length under consideration for the POTL project, (i.e. 161 kV over
approximately 110 kim), this option is very expensive as the underground cables (conductors)
will requirc a high level of insulation. In addition, the cable route will have to be ducted and
there will be severe constraints at various points on the route which passes througlh difficult
undulating terrain with steep highlands and deep valleys. Similarly, there will be further
constrainits at points where there will be the need to traverse streams, rivers and other natural
obstacles.
Mainteniance of underground transmission systems is also very expensive and takes much longer
timc as specialized equipment are needed for fault detection and repairs. This could mean longer
oLtages in the event of faults developing on the line.
As meniitionied earlier in Chapter 2, a major positive benefit of the POTL project is the proposal to
usc composite optic fibrc wire (OPGW) in place of one of the conventional shield wires in the
ovclihead transmission network.
Rcust- MoulichelIVRANlOTIJAIS           106



PRESTEA-OBUASI T RANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Over thle years VRA has established a communication system using the OPGW network on the
south-eastern lines (from Akosombo through Kpong to Kumasi) and along the south-western line
(from Akosombo through Tema to Takoradi and Prestea) (see Fig. 6-1).
The OPGW network is operated by VOLTACOM, a VRA subsidiary, and is providing very
valuable communication (voice and data transmission) services to many corporate bodies in
areas along the line.
As part of the implementation of the POTL project, VRA intends to extend the OPGW line from
Prestea through Obuasi to Kumasi (see Fig. 6-2). VOLTACOM would then be able to service
customers in the mining areas who have severe telecommunication constraints.
Even more significant is the fact that this phase (i.e. POTL project) will result in completing the
loop for the OPGW network in Southern Ghana and will ensure system reliability under varying
possible fault conditions as communications can be re-routed along the loop to by pass any
damaged portions. This advantage could be lost with the underground option.
6.4  Altcrnative tower design and matcrial
A further alternative considered is the type of material used for the towers and their designs.
Fower structures depend on the level of voltage and capacity of the line. Wood is used either as
siniglc pole towers for up to 46 kV (e.g. as used by VRA in their NED domestic network and by
IICG extensively in Ghana for their 33 kV and 11 kV networks), or as "H-frame" towers (see
Plate 3) for voltages ranging from over 46 kV to 230 kV (e.g. in Canada for their 115 kV).
Ilowever for the POTL project which will transmit power at 161 kV, the best option is self-
suprI)OtlLing stlCC lattice towers.
Apart- from the need to conserve forests, other constraints with the use of wood include the
hciglht limitations in relation to the requircd minimum clearance, which will mean much shorter
spans and more towers.
Rclast - Mouchc/VRA/POTIJEUS          107



PRESTIA-O01WlJASI TRANSMISSION LINE - IINAI. IIS
In addition, wood is susceptible to degradation by termite attack (special chemical treatmellt
nceded) and by bush fires, which are quite common in parts of Ghana and could place the liie at
severe risk.
Concrete is another possible altemative material that may be considered in tower design. Here
again the choice is limited by level of voltage and the height requirements for maintaining safe
clearances between the lines and ground. Concrete has been used in the domestic ECG network
in the form of reinforced concrete poles (using iron rods) for low voltage transmission and for
street light supports (see Plate 4). It has been observed that in the harslh environments near the
coast and in the mining areas, the iron corrodes over relatively short periods of use and the
concrete poles become rather fragile and pose severe risks to the system and to public safety.
6.5 Altcrnativc routes
A major component of the EIA has been the consideration of the best possible route for thle
POTL project. The route for the new line has been proposed to run alongside the existing line
with deviations in way of the major settlements of Bogosu and Dunkwa (see Fig. 1-2 and 1-3).
Considering the various environmental factors discussed earlier in Chapters 3 and 4, and from
the above discussions, it is considered that the POTL project, using steel towers and running
genlerally along the proposed route, with the recommended diversions, is the best option for the
required system reinforcement.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS            108






I~~~~~~1X i 
9-






/ WE    N     /;=
w              Stw~~~~~~~~~A iATI P:K)                 KPN
/DORMAA vCBSIAMON     _SLIADO
{           - ~~~~~~O AS.  Ah' E-90.W v I 
~~~~~~~~t        - WA
e   F,,         SU'I                                      SWE
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cd '   hAS   EGIrN      \            ArXo r
|              .    s   -  -~~~~~FE   _6K  S i SIAnON   f  
\         [KNKWA v !A 1AK', ^                                L  N
\   S1GSlAI'                          I  }  gJ~~~~~~~~~~~Isno
\  peFGrOK   J     --           )    V  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TkN490
\_\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE Frr.EO W; 1
l                                  JECA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OG
g   _ 'RESIFA 16iKV       _     SlBfS~~~~~~r%k%MC
_ _  i,ESrAMoN c ..   ~~~~~~~~~U* WIH
ra°sio:rDF   X  V   \ S W   "   D + +        '~~~~~~~~~~~---CPG
F- FUURM      POFVRAOPWNETWOR






Chapter 7
Provisional EMP
And Training






PRElSTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - I INAL EIS
7 PROVISIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN AND TRAINING
This section outlines a provisional environmental management plan and identifies training needs,
to ensure sound environmental practices during the various stages of the project. It discusses and
allocates appropriate resources for items discussed under mitigation and monitoring. Issues
relating to training will also be addressed in this section.
Environmental personnel preferably from the Environmental Department (VRA), will be
appointed to oversee site construction activities and monitor specific environmental criteria.
Thesc personnel once adequately trained will carry on into the operational phase of the project.
The provisional plan discussed in this section has taken into consideration guidelines provided in
the ISO 14000 which deals with Quality Standards associated with the management of the
environment.
7.1   Environmental Management Structure
TIhc corporate structure of the VRA provides for a department of Real Estatc andl Environmnelt
headed by a Director. (Fig 7-1)
A Project environmental team  (preferably from environment department) headed by an
cnvironmental coordinator will be appointed and would work under the existing Real Estates and
Einvironmiiient department (Fig. 7-2).
The project environmental team would be directly responsible for all environmental issues at the
pre-constructional and constructional phase of the project. Management of the post
constructional operational phase would be incorporated into the Authority's Corporate
Environmental Management Plan, which is presently administered by the Real Estate and
Environlment department.
RcfasI - Mouchcl/VRAtlOTUEIS           109



PRESTEA-013UASI T RANSMISSION lINL - FINAI LIS
7.1.1 Qualifications of Projcct Environmcntal Pcrsonncl
The major environmental specialities associated with the management of electrical transmission
line projects such as this are ecological and social impact assessment. In addition familiarity with
hcalth and safety management would be necessary.
Personnel with good background in these areas shall be engaged to form the environmental team.
Training of appointed environmental staff who constitute this team would be necessary to meet
these requirements.
7.1.2 Functions of Project Environmcntal Team.
Thc functions of the team will include:
* Ensuring project compliance with all relevant environmental, health and safety regulations
* Liaison witlh all relevant rcgulatory bodies and organizations - EPA, Factories Inspectorate,
Encrgy Commissioni (Inspectoratc unit)
* Formiulation and review of environmental policies and practices associated with the project.
* Liaison bctweeni VRA   Transmission Department and Real Estatcs and Environlmiienit
Department on all environlmental matters connected to the project.
* Education and training of project staff in environmental and safcty awarencss.
* Make budgetary provisions for project environmental programmes
* Undertaking environmental monitoring activities for the project
RCIasI - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS            110



PRESTEA-013UASI TRANSMISSION l.NIN - FINAL EIS
7.1.3 Project Environmcntal Coordinator
The coordinator shall be responsible for all environmental matters associated with the project. He
will work closely with the project contractors but would report directly to the Director of Real
Estate and Environment.
The coordinator should preferably be either an ecologist or a sociologist with experience in
involuntary resettlement and preferably familiar with World Bank policies.     Special
environmental training in ecological and social impact assessment programmes would be
necessary for the selected candidate who does not have this background.
The responsibilities of the coordinator shall include:
* Monitoring all environmental programmes for pre-construction and construction phases of the
project, including those related to bio-physical and socio-economic/cultural components.
* Working closely with project contractors to ensure that all monitoring and mitigation
guidelines recommendations for the project are strictly adhered to during the phases. This will
include following all heath and safety guidelines outlined and following strictly the
Authority's environmental policy guidelines.
* To organise activities to motivate and maintain the interest of project staff in environmental
issues
* To increase project staff awareness of environmental issucs througlh trainiing programmes and
revicw meetings
* To coordinate investigations on all types of accidents.
* To conduct cnvironmental audits in accordance with project monitoring guidcliles.
* lTo serve as liaison between project contractors, the Authority and relevant regulatory
agencies.
RCast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS              111



PRESTEA-OBUASI T RANSMISSION LINE - I:INAL EIS
7.1.4 Project Environmental Assistants
Responsibilities of the 2 assistants would include mainly assisting the project coordinator in his
environmental duties. They would report directly to the coordinator.
Appointed personnel for this position should have a background in sociology or ecology.
Experience with environmental work relating to transmission line project will be useful.
However, if selected personnel lack this background, short training programmes in this area may
be organised.
7.2   General Health and Safety Procedurcs
The Authority's health and Safety Rules (1993) and guidelines provided in the Factories, Offices
and Shops Act, 1970 (Act 328) given below would be strictly complied with at all stages (pre-
constructional, constructional, operational) of the project. These regulations cover the major
safety areas. Further details of the two major safety sections (forestry work and line work)
relating to this project are also outlined below.
* General Safety Rules for workers engaged in construction, operation or maintenance work.
* Safety guidelines related to the use of tools and equipment
* Safety procedures associated with the transportation and of personnel and materials
* Safety procedures in relation to Forestry work.
* Safety procedures relating to Transmission line work.
* Safcty procedures for materials handling, storage and disposal
RcImsM - Mouchcl/VRNIWl'UEIS            112



PRl STl A-OlUASI IRANSMISSION LINE - I:INAL. LIS
7.2.1 Safety guidelincs for Forcstry work
Important guidelines provided in the VRA Corporate Safety Rules 1993 for forestry work (rules
600 to 615) must be strictly adhered to. These include:
*  Protection for work
*  Working near live conductors
*  Permission to work on public roads and nearby properties
*  Disposal of bush
*  Felling trees
*  Reporting location of forestry work
*  Climbing precautions
7.2.2  Safety guidelines for Transmission Line work.
Some of the important safety guidelines (line work) to be followed as per VRA Corporate Safety
rules 1993 (rules 700 to 826) include:
*  Transportation and handling of transmission towers
*  Climbing precautions
*  Installation of towers
*  Installing ground rods
*  Stringing, sagging or lowering conductors
*  De-energizing new circuits
*  Trimming of tree branches
*  General safety rules for work on live lines
Relast - Moticuicl/VRA/I'OTLEIS          113



PRESTLA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL LIS
7.3  Pollution Prcvcntion
In addition to safety guidelines relating to health and safety, strict pollution prevention guidelines
will also be enforced during all phases to the project.
Most pollution incidents are avoidablc if careful planning and management procedures are
instituted. Pollution prevention measures are much more cheaper to implement than costly clean
up after the incident. For the prevention measures to be.effective, the environmental team shall
first be adequately trained in pollution prevention for this assignment.
Some of the important pollution prevention guidelines to be followed for this project will include
the following:
7.3.1 Planning and Preparation
Careful planning can reduce the risk of pollution significantly. As a first step, environmenital site
meecctiigs shall bc organised bctween the local EPA officer, the project team and contractors prior
to commencciilemlt and durilg construction operations.
7.3.2 Site Offices (Basc Camp)
Project sitc camps/offices shall be adequately protected by fences and locked acccsses where
possible. A common cause of pollution is by acts of theft and vandalism. Security personnel shall
be engaged at site offices/yards.
Carc shall be taken to ensure that contaminated site drain water does not lead into nearby rivers
and streams.
Fire precautions to observed at site offices shall include:
* provision of adequate and suitable portable fire extinguishers
Rcast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS              114



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAI. 1-IS
* Adequate ventilation for storage rooms containing flammable chemicals
* No smoking signals posted at sensitive locations such as fuel storage points
* Handling of flammable liquids by competent personnel only
* Rags soaked with flammable liquids to be stored in metal containers and disposed safely
7.3.3 Storage, Handling and Disposal of Materials / Oils / Chemicals
The Authority's Corporate Safety Rules 1993 (section ix) regarding above shall be strictly
adhered to. In addition, the following guidelines shall also be followed in the handlilng of
mnaterials, oils and chemicals.
* Materials shall be stored in an orderly manner and in safe stacks, tiers or piles. Material shall
not be stored so as to obstruct passageways. Where necessary warning signals, lights and
barricades shall be provided.
* Most chemical used in construction operations such as oils, chemicals, cement, cleaning
matcrials, and paint have potential pollution hazards. All such chemicals shall be stored on an
impervious base within a bund wall to contain any spillages.
* The Authority's corporate safety rule (rule 219) concerning the use and handling of toxic and
hazardous material shall be strictly complied with.
* Leaking or empty oil / chemical drums shall be removed from the site and safely disposed
* Contents of all tanks / drums containing chemicals shall be clearly marked.
* Disposal of all tanks and drums shall be done safely. All contents of tanks/drums to be
disposcd shall be emptied and perforated by competent pcrsonnel before final safe disposal.
Rcl.asl - Mouchcl/VRAPOTIJEIS           115



I'RESTI.A-OI1UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL AIS
* Refueling of project equipments (cranes, heavy plant equipment) and vehicles may constitutc
the greatest spillage risks. Accordingly, these shall be done in designated areas with
impermeable surfaces located away from drains or watercourses. Drip trays and spill kits shall
- be immediately available. Fuel hoses and valves shall be regularly checked for leakages and
wear and tear.
* Emergency spillage cleanup procedures shall be clearly outlined. Absorbent materials for
containing spillages shall always be available on site. These may include sawdust, sand, etc.
7.3.4 Concrete Works.
The construction of the tower pads and the minor extensions at the substations involve concrete
works. Concrete and cement are very alkaline and corrosive and can have serious pollution
impacts on watercourses. Therefore, all concrete works shall be carefully monitored to ensure
that such material do not contaminate nearby streams and rivers.
7.3. 5 Silty Watcr Discharge.
Construction works in swampy areas may necessitate dewatering of excavations. Silty water
could also arise from run off from the exposed tower track surfaces, graded access tracks and the
washing of plant and vehicle wheels.
The following guidelines shall be followed where necessary to avoid pollution of surface water
sourccs and damage to river ecosystems:
* When discharging clean water to river courses pumping rates shall be carefully controlled
to avoid disturbing riverbeds and eroding or creating silty river water damage.
* Where possibic cut off ditches shall be provided to prevent surface water from cntering
into excavations. As much as possible water collected in excavations shall not bc
disturbed.
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS            116



PRESTFA-013UASI T RANSMISSION L.NIN - FINAI I:IS
* The amount of soil stockpiles shall always be kept to the barest minimum.
7.4   Wastc Disposal.
The major sources of waste would be that from vegetation clearing activities. A common way of
bush disposal is by burning. The following guidelines shall be followed in the disposal of bush
by this method (burning).
* Starting of fires shall be governed by local fire regulations
* Permission shall be obtained from relevant local Authorities
* Location of burning shall be chosen so that there is minimum danger to surrounding
vegetation or settlements
* Burning shall not take place under power or communication lines or at locations where smoke
might interfere with road traffic.
* All fires shall be completely quenched with water or soil after burning and all steps taken to
prevent re-ignition and spread.
Other major sources of waste would be packing materials such as wood, plastics, metal scraps
etc. Appropriate waste bins shall be provided at site for collection and disposal through public
waste disposal system.
7.5   Managemcnt of Work Camp
Based on information gathered from consultations with SAE - SADELMI, wlho have been the
main contractors on several previous VRA transmission line projects, it is expected that the
project will take 12 to 18 months to complete. The main construction campsite would be located
at Dunkwa, about midway along the proposed route and the total workers required would be
about 200.
Among the main requirements for the work camp are:
Rclasl - Mouchcl/VRA/POTUEIS            117



PREST EA-Ol3UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL. EIS
i.     The conlractor shall supply and maintaini contractor's own portable accommodation,
offices, stores, and workshops.
ii.    The contractor shall provide transport, welfare, services (water, electricity, firefighting)
and such other facilities for the workers at the camp site.
iii.    The contractor shall provide adequate latrine facilities and shall keep same in a clean and
sanitary condition to the satisfaction of the District Public Health authorities.
iv.     The contractor shall provide drains from the camp site linking to existing public drainage
system. Where there is no adequate public drainage, the contractor shall construct as
suitable soakaway for collection of site drains. Suitable pits for incinieration of solid
wastes shall also be provided.
v.     The contractor shall provide adequate accesses including footpatlhs to the camp and
maintain same in good condition.
VI.     Strict regulations shall be instituted at the camp to ensure that activities of workers living
at the camp site (especially foreign workers) do not pose a threat to the social order of the
local community.
vii.     Adequate regulations shall be prescribed to ensure that workers do not pollute the local
environmllenit througlh indiscriminate urination and defecation outside the camp site.
v'ill.   Safety precautions shall be enforced in all aspects of camp activities. Fire extinguishers
shall be located prominently at vantage points and all the workers shall be instructed in
their use.
*  Dccommissioning of Work Camp
At the comiipletioni of the project, and upon handing over and acceptance by VRA, thie contractor
shall take steps to close down the work camp. The decommissioning will involve:
I.     All portable housing units shall be removed from the site. Temporary structures shall be
dismanitled and stowed for removal.
Rclast - MouchcINRA/POTUEIS               1 18



PRESTEA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL, EIS
ii.    All latrine soils shall be suitably disinfected and pits adequately sealed up under tlle
supervision of the District Public Health inspectors.
iii.   Incineration pits for domestic solid wastes shall also be suitably covered and sealed.
iv.     All public utility service connections (electricity, water, communications etc) shall be
removed and adequately sealed off.
v.     After removable of all structures, the camp site will be adequately restored by planting of
grass and trees under the supervision of the District Environmental Unit.
7.6 Training Programme
A basic training programme, for project management staff and key personnel of the contractor
assigned to the project, in environmental awareness and environmental management will cover
the following:
I. Basic environmental terminology and definitions
2. Environmental laws, regulations and compliance
3. Ghana EIA procedures (including familiarization with provisions of Environmilelntal
Assessmcnt Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652)).
4. Basic elements of Environmental Management Planning
5. Environmental policies
6. l-lealth and Safety policies
7. Impact assessment - identification and prediction techniques
8. Mitigation plans
9. Monitoring
10. Environmental audit
7.7 Allocation of Rcsources for Environmcntal Management
Apart from the human resources recommended in 7.1, financial provision shall be made to
cnsirc that mitigation commitments (including compensation), monitoring and training
programmes can be effectively implemented.
Rclast - MouchcINRA/POTTUEIS            119



PRESTEA-OBUASI TRANSMISSION LINEI - FINAL LIS
It is estimated that financial resources for environmental management require up to 1-2 % of the
project cost. However with an already established environment department in place, VRA shall
make the necessary budgetary provisions to cover all the commitments.
clast - Mouchcl/VRAIPOTUEIS              120



PRESTEA-O03UASI T RANSMISSION lINI - IINAL EIS
ORGANISATIONAL CHART
PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL TEAM
Director
Real Estate & Environment
Project Environmental
Coordinator
|   Project      ll                      Project      l
Environmental                         Environmental
Assistant                             Assistant
Fig. 7.1
Rcfast - Mouchcl/VRA/MIOTIJEIS            121



PRESTEA-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - FINAL EIS
Organisation Chart - Environment Section
Real Estate & Environment Department (VRA)
Director
Real Estate & Environment
Environmental                          'Project Team     I
Advisory                               ,Prcstca - Obuasi
Committee                               Trans. Linc
Manager
Admin Officer          Biochemist            Landscape Officer      Admin. 0 ficer
Re-Settlement Unit     Pollution Unit        Afforestation Unit     Administration Unit
Fig. 7.2
Relast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTIE1S            122



Chapter 8
Consultations






I'RESl -A-013UASI TRANSMISSION LINE - IJINAI. ILIS
8 CONSULTATIONS - INTERAGENCY AND PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT
This section presents the findings of all the various consultationis held in connection with the
proposed Prestea-Obuasi Transmission Line project with the public and relevant agencies.
8.1    Public Consultations
Various consultations with the communities were undertaken to notify themii about the proposed
project and the impending EIA and to ascertain their concerns and expectations.
A summary list of the contacts made is presented in Table 8.1 below.
Table 8.1 Summary List of Contacts madec during Preliminary Consultations
Community/Organisation     Contact Names            Position
Prestea/Himan              Nana Kyei V              Himan Chief
Mr. Amuzu               Assemblyman
Sub-Chiefs & Stool
elders
Bogosu Gold Ltd.           Mr. Henry Tandoh        Ag. Mine Manager
Mr. Henry Atakorah      Metallurgical Manager
BEogosu Township           Mr. Seth V. Gyimah       Assemblyman
Mr. David Atobrall      Sacred Grove keepcr
Ayensukrom                 Kwaku Nti & others       Unit Commllittce
Insu Siding                Nana Ampong              lnsu Chief
Mr. Adansi Bondah       Assemblyman
Mr. Addae & others      Unit Committee
I'remcnso                  Nana Kwabena Adjci 11   Chiief
Elders
Asanteayo                  Kwame Ofori              Opinioni Leadcr
Abekakrom                  Ms. Martha Ansong        Unit Committee
Adadekrom                  Mr. Adamptey             Unit Committee
Damang                     Mr. J.K. Kankam          Assemblyman
Opon Valley                Mr. George Ambre        Assemblyman
Esaase                     Nana Addae              Ankobeahene
Nana Tweneboah          Krontihene
Esikunma                   Mr. Kojo Amadu          Assemblyimian
Abesiwa                    Nana Gyasehene          Gyasehelce
Mr. Oliver Sey          Assemblyman
Mr. Morgan - Asante &   Unit Comm11ittec
others
Upper   Denkyira   District Mr. Bayorlh             Coordinatinlg Director
Assembly, Dunlkwa          Mr. Ofori                Planning Officer
Rclast - Mouchcl/VRA/POTlJUES            123



PRI-STlA-013UASI TRANSMISSION lINEI- FINAI l'IS
Community/Organisation     Contact Names           Position
Continental Goldfields     Wg. Cdr. Kumakor        Mines Managcmcnt
Air. Cdre Pumpuni
Mr. Oware
Adamso                     Mr. Anthony Dongi       Assemblyman
Adinkra                    Mr. Ernest Appiah       Unit Committee
Mr. Sackey              Opinion Leader
Tweapease                  Mr. Kwame Boateng       Mmrantelhene
Mr. Kwabena Bio         Opinion Leader
Apitisu                    Mr. Joseph Karikari     Unit C'ttee Chairman
Opanin Kwasi Appiah     Unit C'ttee member
Mr. Kwasi Appiah Jnr.   Unit C'ttce secretary
Apitikooko                 Nana Ofe Akwasi         Odikro
Benjamiii Asiedu        Unit C'ttee meiber
Obuasi                     Mr. George Adu-Mensah   District Chief Executive
Ashanti Goldfields         Mr. J.A. Amanor         Snr. Manager - Geology
8.2    Concerns Raised
During thiese initial consultations, various concerns raised by the people contacted were noted
and addressed in the EIA. The maini concerns raised are discussed bclow.
* Loss of crops and land use
Almost all thc communitics contacted raised concerils about the loss of crops, loss of income
and loss of land use. Thlcy  comzplained about the mode of acquisition and paymclit of
compensationi. They indicated that undcr the existing system, those whose lands are affected by
VRA and other utiliity projects are only compensated for the crops or structures that have to be
destroyed as part of the project implementation . The loss of land use is not considered in the
evaluation.
* Prcstca substation land owncrshil) and other concerns
A Imlctling was hlcd with the Chief of -limian-Prcstca, Nana Kyci V and his council of elders at
his palace. In attendance was the Assemblymiianl for Prestea, Mr. Amuzu and staff of VRA.
Rclast - MouchcI/VRA/I'OTIJEIS          124



PRESTEA-011JASI TRANSMISSION l.NIJ - FINAI. I.IS
After bricfing them about thc proposed project and the rationale for carryinig out the EIA and the
need for consultations and community involvement, Nana and his elders raiscd conlcerlnis
regarding the acquisition of land for construction of the VRA substation at Prestea.
According to them,, the land on which the substation was built (in 1965), together witlh the land
on which the VRA staff quarters is situated, all belong to the stool. However, the stool was not
contacted during the initial acquisition and nothing had been paid to them ever since. They
rcqucstcd that VRA should arrange to discuss this issue before any attempt is made to acquire
additional land for the new power line.
They also complained about the inadequacy of power supply in their community in spite of the-
presence of thie VRA substation on their land.
* Mining Conccssions
Consultations were held with the mining companies whose concessions were identified to be
along the proposcd route for the transmission line. The ideniified companies arc:
Bogosu Gold Limited (BGL)
Dunkwa Continental Goldfields Limited (CGL)
Ashanti Goldfields Limited (AGC)
They all requcsted for copies. of the proposed route map to enable them study the route in detail
and rcport any concerns. The maps were duly providcd immediately as requestcd.
At the time of compiling this report, responses had becn rcceived from AGC, CGL and BGL.
Thlc Icttcrs from tllesc minling companies arc attached in Anilex 6.
* Issucs raised by Adansi West District Assembly
A mecting was held wiih Mr. George Adu-Mensahi, the District Chief Executive of Adansi West
Distr-ict at the officcs of the District Assembly.
RC;ast - Moudilcl/VRA/1O0TUE[IS        125



PRIS-A-O01MASI I tANSMISSION lINF - IlNAi. [IS
lHe arranged for a member of the EIA team to bricf a session of the Assembly memibers who
were meeting at the time of the EIA survey studies.
He raised concernls on the following issues:
*  Loss of future use of land should be compensated - he indicated this was the maill
concern of residents in his district. According to him, the assembly receives many
complaints regarding inadequate compensation payment involvinlg various agencies and
requested this should be addressed in the EIA.
*  Compensation should be paid at the time of loss of crops and not later - he stated that in
order to avoid placing undue hardslip on the already poor rural folk, compensatioll for
loss of crop should be paid immediately to the affected persons.
*  Plans for expansion of township should be taken into account when routeing the line - he
indicated that Obuasi is a fast growing town and land for developmenit has become
scarce. If the line route passes on lands earmarked for development, this would create
difficulties for the assembly. I-le mentioned the situation where a recent decision to
relocate a cemetery to an available land beneatlh VRA powerlines has been objectcd by
VRA. TIhe casc is still under litigationi. I-le suggested that in situatiolns of land scarcity,
some forms of activities that did not require continuos humiiani presence (c.g. cemetery)
could be permitted under the power lines.
*  Concerni about electromagnetic forces - he suggested communlity concernls about effects
of EMF should be addressed by VRA and ECG.
A summiiary of the contacts and the major concerns raised is presented in Table 8.2.
Table 8.2 Summary of Concerns raised during Public Consultations
Coinmunity/Organisation      Conecrn
Prestea/Hemain               *  Concerns about construction  of sub-station
should be addressed before new line is discussed
Bogosu                       *  Fetish slhrine may affect routeinig of line
Bogosu Gold Limited          *  Mining concession to be expanded
Ayensu Krom                  *  Loss of crops and land use
Nsu Siding                   *  Loss of crops and land use
Rldast - Mouchcl/VRA/IVOTIJIIS          126



PRE:SrlA-01MUASI T RANSMISSION lINI. - I INAI. .IS
Community/Organisation       Conccrn
Premenso                     *  Loss of crops and land use
Adade Krom                   *  Loss of crops and land use
Damang                       *  Loss of crops and land use
Opon Valley                  *  Loss of crops and land use
Esaase                       *  Loss of crops and land use
*  Land has recently been cleared but the crops
Asikuma                         have not yet been planted. The farmers would
like compensatioIn for wasted effort
Continental Mining Company   *  None (in the immediate future)
Adamso                       *  Loss of crops and land use
Adinka                       *  Loss of crops and land use
Tweapease                    *  Loss of crops and land use
Apitikoko                    *  Loss of crops and land use
Obuasi District Adminiistration  *  Loss  of future  use  of land  should  be
compensated
*  Compensation should be paid at time of loss of
crops and no later
*  Plans for expansion of township should be taken
into account wheln routeing the line
*  Concern about electromagiletic forces
8.3   Further consultations
During the EIA studies, the individual whose farms, lands and structure were identified-to fall
within the right-of-way of the proposed route, were interviewed and their responses have been
discussed in Chapter 4 and presented in Annex 3-5 to 3-7.
VRA's Real Estate and Environiment department is holdinlg further consultationis to address all
outstandinig issues including those raised by Bogoso Gold Limited il Anilex 6.
8.4    Consultations with Agencies
Consultations held with the various relevant agencies are discussed below:
* Consultations with the Energy Commission
Thc Elnergy Comimlission Act, 1997 (Act 541) empowers the Comimiissioni amonig other thinigs to
maniaL!ge all dcvelopments in the energy sector. A meetliig was therefore held with the cnergy
Rclasi - MoudcicI/VRA/1'OTUEIS          127



I'RIS1 IFA-01UAS1 TRANSMISSION LINI: - FINAL I IS
Commissioni to discuss tile proposed POTL project and the requirement for permit as outlinied in
the Energy Comimiissionl regulation published as ECN 001 and 003.
The Executive Secretary indicated that VRA is currently only provisionally licensed as a service
provider in the energy sector and that VRA is yet to complete all the necessary requirements for
full license.
He further indicated that the conditions required for permit, as stated on the Provisional License
issued to VRA, require the following:
*  Relevant drawings of the project
* Environmental Report approved by the EPA
* Documentation covering title/lease of land on whichi the project is to be sited
The Commission requires that a formal application for permit should be submitted by VRA prior
to commencement of the project. The final approved EIS will forn part of the requirements and
this is being duly hanidled by VRA.
*  Consultation with the Ministry of Mincs and Encrgy
The Ministry was consulted on the general direction of Government policy in relation to thc
power sector. It was indicated that the main direction of Government policy is towards private
participationl in the generationi and distribution of electricity. Reference was made to the Ghanla
Government "STATEMENT ON        POWER   SECTOR    DEVELOPMENT POLICY" whici
discusses the various details of the policy.
It is noted that VRA hias already put in place structural changes in the corporate setup in line with
the general direction of the Government's policy suchi as setting up of strategic business units
like GRIDCO whicih is responsible for the transmission systemii whichi is of immediate interest to
the EIA.
Relal.st - Mouclicl/VI A/1'OlII IS      128



PRIESTl.A-O0lIJASI T RANSMISSION l.INI - FINAL. IS
* Consultation with thc Forest Service Division of the Forcstry Commission
Discussions havc been held with the Forest Scrvices Division on the issucs arising from the
power line crossing the Denyau Shelterbelt and the Opon-Manisi forest reserves. The Acting
Director of Operations, Mr. J.E. Otoo, has requested for maps showing the route and thesc have
been provided (similar maps are shown in Figs. 4-2 and 4-3).
The formal response received from the Division is attached in Annex 6. As indicated in the letter,
the Division will arrange for an accredited timber contractor to harvest the trees witlhil the RoW
before issuing VRA with the necessary permit to enter the forest reserves.
The respective district officers have been informed to commence evaluating the trees in the
general area of the proposed RoW. These arrangements will be finalised whell the final route
selection is completed.
* Consultations with Muscums and Monuments Board
The National Museum management was consulted with regard to any historical or archeological
artifacts whichi may be encountered in the course of clearing or excavating for erectioni of the
transmission towers. The procedures are derived from the provisions of thle National Museum
Decree 1969, (NLCD 387).
Upon the discovery of any such artifacts:
i.    Tlhe Director of the Ghana Museum and Moniuments Board sliall be notified immediatcly
in writing, stating the exact site or location of the item. The letter shall include adequate
photographs of the antiquity.
ii.    VRA shall permit and facilitate such access to, and inspection of the site of discovery as
the Director may so require. VRA slhall also permit to be affixed or applied theretd, any
seal or identification mark of the board.
iii.    VRA shall not alter, damage, destroy or remove any antiquity from its origilal site
without the consent of the Board.
RcIasI - Motichcl/vRA/'orui-is          129



I'RI.Sl'LA-)1311ASI 'l'RANSMISSION LINL - FINAL I:IS
If removal of the itcm becomes immediatcly necessary for safety or sccurity rcasons, the
exact location shall be noted and the retrieved artifact shall be sent to the custody of thle
Board.
iv.     Througlh liaising witlh the Board, the lawful owners of the land shall be duly informed and
where neccssary, payment shall be made by the Board after due assessment.
v.      Furthcr decisions with rcspect to site sampling, or further excavation shall be at thle
jurisdiction of the Board.
Relast - Mouchil/VRA/MOTjUIHS                130



Chapter 9
Conclusion






I'RISI I:A-()ItJASI YRANSMISSION LINI.-I INAI I IS
9 CONCLUSION
In recent years, the Volta River Autilority has undertakeni sonic major reinlforceimenilt and
expansion works oni the national transmission network, which was first commissioned over 35
years ago. TIhc nationial nctwork also serves La Cote d'lvoire, Togo and Beninl.
However, the continuing demand for electricity to support the ongoing economic developmenit
plans of the country places severe constraints on various segimients of the network. System
studies have revealed that tihe Imlost vulnerabie segmenits are along the westerin sector inlvolvilng
Prestea, Bogoso, New Obuasi and Obuasi.
This sector is siginificanit not only for the economic importanice of the increasinig mining activities
in those areas but also because the current additions to th6 country's power generation capacity
are in the Western Region. These are the expansion of the Takoradi Generating stationi at
Aboadze to 600 MW and the new GNPC 140 MW Plant to be stationied at Effasu.
The proposed Prestea-Obuasi Tranismissioni line is required to be constructed to augmenit the
powcr tianisfer capacity of the westerin segimieint of the tranisimiissioni systemii as well to maintain
the systemil stability. The systems studies revealed that the loss of the 1Prestea-Bogoso segimienit
will lead to total collapse of the whole national system.
The route has been choseni so that the proposed liie will run along thc existing liie to cnable it
use the cxistinig right-of-way (RoW) whierever possible. The EIA has identified tilat the proposed
project will have some significant impacts mainly oni the people residing in the settlements along
the proposed route. These impacts are related to tile acquisition of the RoW. This will lead to
loss of farmilaids along the 30 m wide reservation required for the RoW. IThe loss of farmilands
will thien lead to loss of incomiie for the affected farmers. This will be mitigated by paymenlt of
fair and adequate compensation.
Limiled impacts oni the ecology along the route will arise fiom  some ol the conistruction
activities but these will be sufficiently mitigated to minimise tileir effects.
Rclast - MOudicfVRA/Jo lJl IS             131



I'RI STEA-013UASI TRANSMIISSION LINI: - IFINAL [IS
Most of thc constructional impacts are generally short tcrm, lastinig only for thc durationi of thc
source activities.  Impacts caused by felling of all tall trees within the RoW  that thlcatcn the
safety of the line are considered as residual and thesc will be miniimized as muchl as possible by
minor diversions if found feasible.
There will not be the need for any resettlement of persons for the implementationl of the project.
The proposed route will be diverted to avoid the urban settlements of Bogoso and Dunkwa.
Recommendations have been made for the selection of tower spots to be made so as to avoid the
few shrines and buildings notcd along the line route.
Effective management of the potential environmental impacts and careful monitoring will help to
keep predicted impacts to tolerable levels.
In the light of the various considerations and particularly for the stability and integrity of the
national transmission network which also serves neighbouring countries, it is recommended that
the Prestea - Obuasi Transmission line project slhould be approved.
ReCast - Moudiccl/VRA/'(01 IJI IS         132



Annex I
B Terms of Reference
E Re'ew ;ant Regulations






Anneicx 1-i
(Anniex 1)   PROPOSED PRESTEA-ORUASI 161 KVTRANSNIISSION LINE,
PRlO.JECT'
FsNVI RONMENFAL, IM PACT AS.SESS(M- IsNI' S'T'l1II)V
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Excecu live Sumimary
1.0   Iniroduction
-   Project backgiounid and objcctivcs
-   Rcgulalory and Administrativc rcquircmcints - all applicabic local and intcrinationial regulations and
standards rclating to thc projcct will bc idcntificd and outlincd. Numcrical standards (whcrc applicabic)
will bc spccificd in sunilmary tablcs. This scction will discuss (lic rclcvant policies, thicir implications
and the regulatory conditionis that must bc considcicd for thc succcssfLil implemicintationi of the project,
includinig the rcquircntcnis by co-inanicicis (World Uank etc).
*I'lic lcgal frameworks to be considcred hlavc becn identiricd durinig the Scoping a:nd ceimphasis
will be on the Volta lRivcr Authiority (Tranismiission Line Protcction) Rcgulations, 1967 (Li 542).
-   Scopc ofstudy - TOR as approved by El'A
2.0     Dcscriptioni of (lie proposed project
A reasonably dclailcd dcscriptioni of thc project will bc given using maps, figurcs and tables as necessary
and will Ihighliglht tlhc following:
-   Constructional activitics - right-of-way and access roultcs, land clcaring and sitc preparation, tower
erection etc.
-   Operalionial activitics - comimiissioninig of' linc, liinC mainlteianllcc, towcr mainitcianicc, right-of-way
mai itenianicc.
3.0 Descrip)ion o ort i, ascliaic Cllvir-olulnllct
TIhc proposcd linc passes mainily throughi thc forcst zonc. Data rclating, to thc cxisting cnvironilicim t havc
bccn identificd during the Scoping and thcsc will bc studicd furtilcr. The arcas of cmpiasis will bc:
3.1   [io-P'hysical Enivironimienit
i.   Climlate
iij   Flora
iii. Faunia
iv.   Forcst Resources



v.    Watcr lRcsourccs
vi.    Soils
vii.   Mincral Rcsourccs
3.2   Socio-cultural/economic Environimieint
i.    Etlhnic Rcligionis aind Cultural Background
ii.   Ilistorical rcsourccs
iii.   Land Icnurc and Land Owncrslhip
iv.    Lanid Usc
v.    Eniploymicnit/Maniufacturiing
vi.    Agriculturc
vii.   Public 1-Icalti
4.0      Significant Environicnctal Impacis aind Proposed Mitig;llion
Somic cnivironnliicntal cffccts will occur during thc constructioni, opcrationi and mainitcnanice pliascs of tlle
projccl. In scction 5 of tlc Scoping rcport the potcntial impact idcntificationl has bccn donc using an
Impact Matirix.
As far as possibIc, all thc idcntificd impacts will bc quanlificd and asscsscd for significanlcc bascd on
magiitudc, cxtent, duration, rcvcrsibility ctc.
Soinc of thc significant impacts arising fromii the constructionl will bc miainily those associated with land
cicaring whiichi could rcsult in loss of farimilanii ds and crops and dispersal of faunia. All tall trces witlinit clic
right-of-way will also hiave to be cut to prcvcnt thicm falling on the lines and this may be rcgardcd as a
rcsidual impact.
Othicr issues arising fromi constructioni would includc noisc fromi machliicry, soil crosion, pollution of water
sourccs from dust ctc.
Duriiig tilc operational phase, 501lc of thc iml)acts are likcly to arise floi issues rclatcd to restiictioni of
acccss to arcas witlin lihc righit-olfway and will bc mainily of socio-cconomiiic/cultural signaifcicance. In
addition, the aspect of tIme impact of cIcctromagnctic field CeICCIs produccd by higih voltage transiiission
systcmis will bc addrcsscd.
From tlic asscssmnicit of impacts, thei nccessary mitigationi actions will bc prcscribcd and whcrcvcr possible
dcsign or iupicnlicntation will bc altcrcd accordingly.
Issucs rcgardinig compensation for loss of crops arid land usc rcsultinig fromll right-of-way (RoW)
acquisitioni wi I bc presented as part of tihc mitigationi.
5.0    Monlitol-inig
Ani appropriatte nioimitorinig programimic to dctcrmiic inipacts on the phiysical, biological and humian
cnvironililcents will also bc dcvclopcd.  hllis programililic will bc uscd to vcrify whictlicr predictions of
cnvironilimcintall impacts, dcvclopcd in tilc design phasc, arc accurate and that unfoiescci ilmpacts are
dccctcd at an early stage.
6.0   Analysis of Allctrnalives



Thiis scction will prescnt a discussion on all altcrnativc and subscqucint dcsigns/optionis that liavc bccn
conisidcrcd to datc. SoI11e of thc altcrnativcs to bc considcrcd includc
7.0  Envi rorcieital Managemeii P1lanu & Trai ning
An Environinilcnital Managcmilcint Systcm bascd on ISO 14000 guidclincs will bc dcvcloped as part of tilc
provisional Enviroiminciltal Managcimlcilt Plan. This will also incorporatc a traininig programiiime whicil will
bc impicikicintcd for tilc staff whio will bc rcsponsibic for tilc construction, opcrationi and miainilcnianicc of thc
line. Environimlieital iianiagcmilcnt and traininig will includc thc followilig:
a.      IPropcr storagc/liandliing of lhazardous matcrials,
b.      Firc prcvcntion systems,
c.      Gcncial lhcalih & safcty proccdurcs,
d .     Monitorinig procedures
c.      Effecctivc rccord-kccping and rcportinig systcmi.
The EMP will incorporate thc following:
a.  composition and job dcscription of cnvir onmiicintal managciliem t tcam,
b.  structurc of rcporting for cnvironmiicintal management tcam and this should bc liikcL with
operational and administrativc activitics,
c.  traininlg and dcvelopmnlt,
d.  parameters to be moniorcd, c.g, ccctromaginctic forcc (EMIF)
c.  sampling sitcs,
f.  frcqucncy of mcasurcmncits,
g.  mctlhod of'samiiplinig and analysis,
hi.  moniitorinig prograiiimic,
i.  propcr and adcquatc record kccping,
j.   places to be rcstrictcd to unautlioriscd pcrsons
k.  cnvironimilciital audit and rcvicw programmeilc
8.0 Cousult;atiotis, lhi cragcncy & Public/Non-Goverimcnn tl liiavolveiicinnt
This scclionl will prcscill tllc findinigs ol all lihc consultations hield in connection witli thc proposed I rcstea-
Obuasi Tranisimiissioni Lincs Project withi agencies, NGO's and tilc public. Tlic discussions will cover the
various issucs of coniccrn raised and lhow tilcy liavc bccn addrcsscd in tlc EIA.
9.0     Coliclusioll
Thlis scction will pcSCil. the miiain conclusionis and rccomillncnidalions rcsulling lironi tllc
EIA.
Aincixcs: Illustrative Malcrials
T'hc Environmental limpact Staleentici (EIS) will bc illustratcd withi rcievant plhotographs, maps, plans,
diagramis and anly oliher illustrativc matcrial that would makc it casy to appreciatc tlhc conticii of the  IS.
iii






Tc]. (021) 664697/664698,        Aiiicx 1-2      z                       Environmental Protection Agency
780175-9                                                                   P.O. Box M326
F~ax: 233 (021) 662690
Tlx: 2609 Environ - Gli                                                              Mnsrio PsOfi
Accra, Ghana.
Our Rcf: CE 31/01/84                                                      April 10, 2000
THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
VOLTA IUVER AUTI-IOIITY
P 0 BOX M77
ACCRA
Dcar Sir,
IENVIRONMEINTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA)
1'ROI'OSED 1611KV TRANSMISSION LINE CONSTRUC-I ON. I'RrESTEA - OBUASI
We refer to .your Icticr of March 24, 2000 submiittng ilic Scoping Rcport for thc abovc projcct
Environmicital Impact Asscssment.
Thc Report has bccn duly revicwcd. hlic rcvicw howcvcr, idcntilicd tihc following arcas/issucs also for
iniclusion in tihc EIA tci-ms of rcfcrcncc:
. Occupationial SafcLy
* Provisioni of maps showinig rivcrs/strcams, forcsts, roads, towns,. Villages, etc.
*i impact of right-of-way on tic sacrcd grovc.
*  Status of the cxisting transmission lines (an audit) as part of the basclinc data
*  Consultation withi the Forcstry Dcpartimcnt on the two Forcst Rescivcs (Danyaw and Opon-Mansi)
*  Public cducation on clcciromiagnctic waves geierated by the transmission lincs on affecctcd
collmmiiullinics
*  Modalitics for paymcnt of compensation to thc affcctcd famicrs, cc. must bc providcd
You arc adviscd to procccd wilh 11hC environmncital asscssmncit of tlic proposcd projcct and submit
twclvc(12) copies of thIC draft projcct Environmental lmpact Statemicint (EIS), in line witli thic Gliana EIA
Procedures and LI 1652.
Do not hiesitaLc to conisult withi thc AgCncy for any furthcr guidance in itlis regard.
Yours failhfully,
i AM     AW-OSEI
DEPUT    DDItECTOR] E A A DErT.
For: EXECUTIVE DIRECTFOR
Cc:     The l lon. Ministcr, Ministry of Environrncni, Scicncc & Tcchnology, Accra
The I loin. Minisicr, Ministry of Mincs & Encrgy. Accra
The Disirici Chicf Exccutivc, Adansi Wcsl District Asscmbly, Abuasi
Tiic Distict Chicf Excculivc, Wassa West Districi Assembly, Tarkwa
The District Chicf Exccutivc, Wassa Amianfi District Assembly, Asankragwa
lihc Disirict Chief Exccutive, Uppcr Dcnkyira Disirict Asscmnbly, Dunkwa
l're Distrnct Cricr Exccutivc, Amansic Wcst District Asscmrbly, 13ckwar
Tlic ltcgional Ofreccr, El'A Ashanti Rcgion. Kumasi
Thc Rcgional OlTiccr, EPA Wcsicni Itcgion, Sekonidi






Act 46
Ti4L EFORTY-SIXTIi
ACT
OF THE PARLIAMENET OF THE REPUBLIC
OF GHANA
ENTITLED
'T'HE VOLTA' RIVER DEVELOPMENTF ACT, 1961
AN ACT to provide for thc cstablishincnt of in. Autxhority chargcd
with the dutics of gcncrating clectricity by mcans of the water
power of the rivcr Volta, and by other mcarns, and of supplying
ccctricity througlh a transmissioni systciii; for t'c construction
of a darn and power station near Akosombo, aud for thc crcationi
ol a lak-c by the damiing of the river; for giving the Autlhority
power to admninister ccrtaiin lands liable to bc inunidated anid
lands adjacenit thercLo, and for dcaling with the rcscttlcmecnL
of pcople living in the lands to be inundaled; ror charging the
Authority wvith ccrtain inctdcntal rcsponsibilitics; and for
purposes conncclcd willh thc matters aforcsaid.
DATE OF ASSENT: 26Ih.1Ipr il, 1961
BE IT ENACTED by the Presi'dentL and the Nationial Assembly in this
prescnt Parliament asscmblcel as follows:
PAMtT I-TIir vOLTA RIVER AUTI3O01UTY
1. Therc shall bc establislied an autlhority to be called thc Volta Establish-
River Authority (referred to in this Act as the Authority) clharged rnmlit ot (hc
with. thc duties and responsibilities hereilnafter specificd.  Auihority.






L.l. 542.                                 2
IVOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY (TRAINSMISSION%,
L!NE PROTECTION) REGULATIONS. 1967
"transmission line" shall inLclude all or anly parL o1 the
towers and conductors fornming the 161 kV transmission
line from the main switchyard at Akosombo to any
part of Ghana; and
"tower"t or "towers" refer to the towcrs carrying and formin-
part of the transmission lines.
E. L. QUARTEY
Chief Executive of the volt,
River Autllorit'
Datc of Gazette notitiaition: 5tlh May, 1967.
P'RfNTED BY TllE STATE PUBLLI-SNG CORPOLAnoN (PRINTING DIVISION1)
ACCRA, OHANA
SPC/A 1 0673/4,460/4/67
Price: NM7O.O2



AIIIIcx 1-4
L.I. 542.
VOLTA RIVER AUTHORITY (TRANSMISSION LINE
PROTECTION) REGULATIONS, 1967
IN exercisc of tLhC powers conferred on the Volta River AuLhority
by scction 33 of Lhe Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46),
these Regulations arc made this 18th day of April, 1967.
1. It shall be an offence for any person whether by hiniself or
in co-operation with othcrs to do or assist in doing any of the
tollowing acts in rclationi to hlie transmission linc:- -
(a) to drill, mine or excavate or carry on anv similar opera-
Llon within the transnission linc right of way;
(b) to place any combustible material inside the right of way;
(c) to cause any firc to burn within two hundred feet of the
transnission linc right of way;
(d) to climb on to, attach to or hang any object on or fromn
any tower or transmission line;
(e) to cause anything to come into contacl with thle Lrans-
mission line;
I(f) to place, drive, tow, pull or carry an) cranc, jiLg, boon]
or any object, under, over or ncar the lransmission line,
unless the minimum distancc from the conductors or
any of them of such object is not less than eighteen feet;
(g) cxcept with the previous consent of the Authority
obtained in writing and subject to any condition tihat
tLec Authority may imlpose in rclationi to such consent:
(i) to carry on any form of blasting within one
thousand fivc hundred fect of any tranismission
line; or
(ii) to construct any building or sLructure or carry
on any kind of cultivation, farming or farming
activity within the transnission line riglht of way.
2. Any pcrson committing any of the above offences may be
tried summarily and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not
cxceediing two hundred New Cedis or imprisonmcnt for a term not
exceedinig twclve months or both.
3. In these regulations-
'right of way" or "Lransmission line right of way" shall
include the area extending for a distance of fifty feet
on each side from the ccntre line of the transmission
lowers;
/  ) R T   \
,,  +t  - -    * <  X~~~~~~1



Act 186
imL HUNDtED AND MfQi1-SIXM
ACT
OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE REPUBLIC
OF GHANA
IENTrTLED
THE LANDS (STATUTORY WAYLEAVES)
ACT, 1963
AN ACr to provide for entry on any land for the purpose of the
construction, installation and maintenance of works of public
utility, and for the crcation of rights of way and other similar
riglits in respect of such works and for purposes conncctcd
wiLth thc matters aforesaid.
DATB OF ASSENT: 16tlz July, 1963
BE IT ENACTED by the President and the National Assembly in this
present Parliament assembled as follows:-
Crcation of  1. (1) Where the President is of the opinion that it is in the public
statutory  interest that any right of way or other similar right over any land
waylea*cs.  (hereafter in this Act referred to as a "statutory waylcave ") be
crcatcd in respect of the wbeole or any part of any of the works
specified in the next following section he may, subject to the provisions
of this Act, by executive instrument (hereafter in this Act referred
to as a " wayleave instrument ") declare the land specified in the
instrument to be subject to such statutory wayleave as is spccilied
ticrcin; aud on the publication of a wayleave instrument and with-
out further assurance the land shall be dcemed to bc subject to that
2






Aiinicx 1-6
ENERGY COMMISSION
PUBLIC NOTICE - EC. N. 003
The ENERGY COMMISSION wishes to inform the general public, specifically those who intend to
be or are already service providers in the energy sector, on certain provisions under the Energy
Commission Act (Act 541) and the requirements for obtaining a lcense.
Section 11:
Except expressly exempted under this Act no person shall engage in any business or any
commercial acgvity for. -
(a)    The transmission, wholesale supply, distribution or sale of electricity or natural
gas; or
(b)    The refining, storage, bulk transporlation, marketng or sale of petroleum products
Unless he is authorized to do so by a license granted under this AcL
Section 59 (41:
Any person who on the date of the coming into force of this Act holds a valid license for the supply
of electricity, natural gas or petroleum products or by law operates any service for tle provision of
electicity, natural gas or petroleum products shall, where he intends to conlinue to operate the
service, apply wihiin 6 months of the coming into force of this Act for the approprate license under
this Act and shall unless authorized under this Act cease the operations alter the expiry of the 6
months period.
REQUIREMENTS TO OBTAIN A LICENSE:
1.     PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS SERVICE PROVIDERS
A.     New Entrants
*: A detailed business plan.
Requiremrens as pertained in the Energy Commission Public Nolice EC.N.
001.
A leter of recommendaton from the Tema Oil Refinery (TOR) or the Bulk Oil
Storage and TransportaUon Company (BOST) ascertaining the liquidity and
credit-worthiness of the Service Provider who intends to purchase products
from TOR or BOST.
*. Environmental Impact Assessment Report certified by EPA on new facililies or
installations to be used by the service provider.
*  Evidence of Energy Commission's authorizalion perril to construct new
facilities.



B.     Existing Service Providers
*  Requirements as pertained in the Energy Commission Public Notice EC.N.
001.
: Environmental Impact Assessment Report certified by EPA on new facilities or
installations to be used by the service provider or an Environmental Impact
Management Plan for existing facilities.
EPA's assessment of all old and new facilities to ascertain their environmental
compliance.
To ensure compliance with SecUon 59(4) of the Energy Commission Act (Act 541), TOR and BOST
would be required to sell petroleum products to service providers only after producing in evidence a
license granted by the Commission.
2.     ELECTRICITY SERVICE PROVIDERS
A.     New Entrants
*  A detailed business plan.
*  Requirements as pertaine,d in the Energy Commission Public Notice EC.N.
001.
*:- A feasibility report on new facility or installations.
*  Environmental Impact Assessment Report certified by EPA on new facilities or
installations to be used by the service provider.
*  Evidence of Energy Commission's authorization permit to construct new
facilities.
Implementation agreement.
* Power purchase agreement.
*  Land conveyance agreement
*  Ownership structure and agreements
Supply agreements.
*  Construction contract
*  Operations and maintenance agreemenl
B.     Existinq Service Providers
*  Provide information as per Public Notice EC.N. 001.
*  Environmental Impact Assessment Report certified by EPA on new facilities or
installations to be used by the service provider or an Environmental Impact
Management Plan for existing facilities.
*:- EPA's assessment of all old and new facilities to ascertain their environmental
compliance.
The Enerqy Commission does not charqe any processing or application form fees. Thc
provisional licensing fees for different categories of service providers for a period of two
years are as follows:
2



N.L.C.D. 38
NAX'IVUNAL MUbLUM DECREL, 1969
ARRANGEMENT OF PARAGRAPHS
PART 1-CONTAOL oF ANTIQUITIES
ParagrapJs
1. Pernmit to export.
2. Inspection. ,
3. Prohibition of export and exemption.
4. Terms of pcrmit to export.
5. Permit to be surrendered.-
6. Compulsory purchase of anitiquity.
7. Licence to sell.
8. Permit to excavatc. -
9. Permission to remove antiquity.
10. Duty to notify discovery.
11. National MMoniuments.
12. Offenccs.
PART II-ESTAWLISHMENT, DurEs AND PowERs 01 BOAr3D
13. Glhana Museum and Monuments Board.
' 4. Dutics of Board.
15. Annual Report.
16. Powers of Board.
17. Power to alicnate.
18. Terms of olfice.
PsT 111-MEETGS, PROCEEDINGS AND REMNjUNERARIoN
19. Meetings.
20. Committcees.
21. Procecdings.
22. Rcmuneration.
PALRT 1Y-MEMBERS OF TI-HE BO,ml, OFInCEnS AND EMPLOYEES
23. Appointments.
24. Pensions and gratuities.
PART V[-FUNDS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
25. Funds.
26. Accounts and audit.
27. Auditor-Gccral to audit accounts.
P,AT VI-GENERAL
28. RcgulationIS.
29. Mcalling or' "National Muscum".
30. Intcrpretation.
31. Rcpeal.






Annex 2
* Extracts - Project
Specifications






0         U                               i
U~~~~
U    'A~~~~~~






1.     GENEIRAI, DESCIRIPTION OF 'PROJECT
1.1    lniitoductioii
The Works covcrcd by tlicsc Tcchinical Spccifications and formii g tlhc Ilrcstea-Obuasi
Transimission Projcct will consist oftlic constiuctioni ofa 16kV linic bctwcciill rstca and
Obuuasi aid IhC Cxpan1sioll ol'thC CXistillg substattioni l.Icilltics alt Plrestci and( Obuasi lor tlhc
terminaitioni of the lllnC.
1.2.   Transmission liiic
Tlic tianisilmissioi linccol)onlcilt oftlic lojCCt wvill colsist oftllc followinig:
(a) COStIrUctioll of approximately 1 10 kmii of 161 kV tranlsimiissioni linc using 2x265
SqL. 111111. (twin-bunidlc toucani) conductol-s on convenitionial stccl latticc towers flttcd
withl two (2) silcIdxvircs onc of whicih shiould bc optic fibrc condLiCtOl (OPGW)
ailoig thilc cxisting Prcstca-BogosuL-Dui7kwa-ObLiasi linic r-ighit of vay.
(b) Divcrsioni of a fcw sprans (4 to 7) of thc cxistling 161 kV 282 mm  AAC
imiistlctoc conductor linc to providc adequatc r ighit of way lor the icNv line.
1.3    Substations
Ihlc substation Com)ponent oflthc Projcct incluelcs tlhc followilng:
(a) expansion anl upgrade of tlhc Obuasi substation for the termlillatioln of tle ncw
linc. This will involvc the provision of line lermiinial cquipicniit, dcdicatecd
circuilt breakcr foi oinC of llc cxisting tranislfor-miers (TI), lprotective rclayilng anid
upgrade ofL'ltc powcr carryinig capacity of the cxistliig ovcrlcad bus systcim.
(b) minlor works in PrcstcaI substationi for thle linc Lerminatlioni. Tlis will
iMCcludlc the f'ollowing:
*   IrCleiihallitationlofaccess Ioad aid ImliorI Cx)ansiOn oSfubstatioi y;lld to
provide acccss to cxisting 161/55 IV transilorimi-s.
*   imiodiFicationl of exisLing mosatic panel lo facilitatc control of 161 lV
ccquipcret f r-oml 225 kV control building.
1.4    161 kV Linie Routes
Trh  lince takes off ftoii thic Prcstca substationi an.1d rtILs gcnrcally lparallel to the existing
Prcstca-Obul.lsi Iinic corridor.
Ihlc followinlg divcrsionis will, howcvci, hiave to be miadc:
11o¢Ia Rivei lihiU it: y             P'OTP-Voluiiic 3a                          Ocfoberi 1999



j - I - 0
* IPrcslea Sankojli Goldllmiilc (P'SG)
t3etwcci the Prcslca Sawkol'a Goldminie (PSG) aind Ankobra Junctioil thc
cxistinig Prcstca-Bogosu linc may bc d]ivcrtcd to the riglht for tlc llcw linlC to
takc tlhC existing coITidor. Thie diveision involves approximately 4 towers.
* IBogosia Substattioln
At Bogosu substalioi tlhc line ilmoves away fromii Ilhc cxistingl lillC roulC,
passes bclinild the SubstaLion Conlrol Building beforc retlur-nillg lo thlc
cxistinig linel corridor.
*    Linie clnr)-y at Obusi Sulbstationj
The proposcd linc slhall run almiost parallel to tlhc existinig linc Lip to the
exisLint, towcr No. 5 from ithe old Obuasi Substationi. 'ITlhc proposed line .
shall thlen be divertcd onto the cxisting lowc- No. 4 and shall ulIl n tile
cxistinig towcrs up to existing owcr No. 2 from tlhc Substatioll whlcrc it
will bc diverted onlo a proposed ncv gantlty insisdc the Substalioll.
TIhlc cxisting linc from thc cxit.ling lowcr No. 5 frolmi the Substatioll slhall
conscqucntly bc divcrtcd onto proposed new towcrs along a corridor
almliost parallel to thc cxisting> towcrs up to the location of the cxisting
9)00 guyed towcr bcforc bcing divcrtcd almliost at 900 onito thc-ganitiy at
the existing bay iln the Substatbon.
The existling 900 guyed towcr shall also be replaecd by a selfsuppoL-rting
900 lowcr.    The conlractor is requilrcd to provide bolth Tcclhnical
proposals  and( quotations for the desigin, testing, supply, ercctioll and
commiiiiissionlilng of thlis tower. The loading conditionis aIIrc the same as tllc
proposcd tranasmissioni lin.c
rc vcgcLation alon, the linc route is mainily forcst.
1.5    Tlrain ing in Tranismuissioni Liuic Design
Unidcr the tlraiiiilng program tlhe contractor- slhall procur-C, install, commiiissioni and traill
10 No VRA     lersonncl inI thlC usc of an initcgratcd state-of-tlhc-arL transmission lille
dcsign softwarc lor four (4) weeks in Akusc, Glhana.
1.6    Piroduction ofa riliii oii triaiisiissioii lin,e couisti uctioii
'I'l'c contractor shall fillm on vidco the cntirc p'ocess of liic consti-uctionl 1romi thle
Volta Rivier /lAwthloritJi          POT    voloiume 3a                         Octolber 1999



3 - I - 7
bcginniniSg to the cnd, highlighting all thc important slagcs anid proccsscs iiivolvcd,
inicluding coimiicntary/narration in Englisli languagc.
1.8   1'rojectT''raiisportation
'Ilic Conitactor is expected to purchasc for thc usc of thc VRA Project Mailagciicint
'I'camii, thc followinig vcliclcs:
1. 2 No. fully loaded air-conditionlcr 4 x 4 Nissan Patrols
2. 2 No. fully loadcd air-conditionicr 4 x 4 Nissan Pick-tips.
The Conitactors cost shiall includc all Customii dutics and local laxcs
2.1     SERVICE CONDITIONS AND DESIGN P'ARAMETERZS
2.1.1   Service Coniditioins
Ilolhti River A iifhoritij       l'OTI-Voluiic 3;a                      Octobcr 1999



3 - I - 6
All 1-I.V. cicctrical cquipmcnit will bc installcd outdoors. Scivicc (amibicint) coniditionis
arc as follows:
MaximiumiL tempcr-aturc              -      40°C
AniLual Avcragc Tcmpcraturcs         -      30"C
Minimiiurii Temperaturc              -      I Ol'c
Maximumii wind vclocity (gust)        -     34m/sec.
Rclativc lu1lumidity                  -     Up to 98%
Earthquakc Sevcrity                   -     0.29g Acccicration 1-lorizonitally
Atmosphcric wlinds arc dust or, altcriiativcly, salt ladcni.
Rainstorms arc hicavy.
Isokicraunic Lcvcl                    -     100
2.1.2   Desigin Paramcters                         -IV                 MV
Nominial Systcm Voltagc                     161kV              34.5
Rated Voltagc for Equipmcnt                 170kV              36
Hligcest Conitiiuos operating voltagc      178.5 kV
Frcqucncy                                   50Hz               50Hz
Neutral Point                               Dircetly Eartlied  Earitlicd
tlhr-oughl ani
cartllilng tranlsformicr
Sliort Circuilt Currcnit                    31.5 kA            31.5 kA
Durationi Slort Curreilt                    3scs              3sccs
Dynaiic Witlhstaid Current                  78.75kA            78.75kA
Insulation Lcvcls:
- I .2/50 ptS Impl])UIsC                    750kV Pcak          1 70kV Pcak
- 1.2/50 [Ls Impulse across Isolatinig Distanice  860kV Pcak    196kV Pcak
Power Flrcquelicy Witlistand for 1 minlute   325kV rms           70kV rilis
Powcr FIrequcicy Withstand for I minulc
Across lsolatling Distanec                   375kV rimis         80kV rimis
Insulationi Withistand for all Aux. &
Contiol Circuilts                            2kV rimis
MilliniLmum1 Creepage to Eartih (all buslinl:gs)  4250 mm        I ,080 mm
Minimiiumii Clcarance Phase to Pliase (Substin)  1,750mimi       500mm
Minimiiumil Clearance Pliase to Earth (Substn)  1,500mm          500mn
Minimiiumii Grounld Clearances to Bottom
of Livc Insulationis (Substns)               2,300miii           2,300mi
Minimium GrouLid Clcar-anice to Live
Equipment (SuLbstins)                        4,500mimi           3,000mm
Ovcrhlcad Linc Conductors Minimum
Groudlld Clcaraniccs at 80 C, over:
- Opcei Groulid                               7000mimi           6,500imi
- Roads/Canals                               8,000mm             7,500mi
- Railways                                   9,000mmll           7,500mim
- 33/1 1kV Lincs                            2,500miii           2,500mi
- Tclecomminilication Lilics                 3 ,500iniii         2,500ii
Auxil iziay Supplies:
Jlolha Rivesr Autlhoriyti       l'OTP-Voluiiic 3a                      Octobecr 1999



Annex 3
n Baseline Data






Aiiucx 3-1: Cliccldist of plaiit species list for Iliglit-of-way ouitside forest rcscrcs
IFallily        Scicaitifec Name       CommIon IalUCe      Slat      Guild       iAre fon-ni
ra.ing
Acanhliaccac     Asyslasia calycina                                  Nl:P        I Icrb
Acand iaccane   1isI icia llava                                      NFli'       I-crb
Anacardiaccac    Spondias mombin                           Grccn     NFi         1'rce >5cnm
________________          dbh
Apocyt1accac     Alstoi1ia boonCci      NYAAMELDUA         GrCCII    PlioIICCr   TrcC >5Cni
<11.1
Apocynaceac      Funmturnia clastica    FRUNTUM            Pink      NPLD        Tice >5cm
specics     dbhl
Araccac         Colocasia csculcnila                                 noni forest  l-lerb
Araccac          Cuicasia scandcnis                        Grcecu     Shadc-     Clinibcr
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _,__ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  _er n   _-_ _
Bonmbacaceac    l3ombax buoniopozcinse  AKA1'A             Green     'Pioncer    Trce >5cmII
dbhl
13onibacaceac    Cciba pcniandra        ONYINA             Grceni     Pionccr    Trcc >5cm
dblb
Cacalpiniaceac   Griffoinia sinimplicitblia  KEGYA         Grccn      NPLD       Large woody
specics     climbcr
Cacsalpiniaceac  Distemonoianithius     BONSAMDUA          Pinik      NPLD       'I'rcc >5CII1
hbnmhamnianus                                        spccics     dbil
Caesalpiniaccac  Mczonieuroni           AKOO BOWIRE        Grceni     Pionecr    Large woody
benthamniantim                                                   clim lbcr
*Conibrciaceac   Terminalia suIpCrba     I.MIRE.E           Scarlet  lPOi1CCI     T'rce >5cm
_______________                                               c~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lbhl  -
(o7niposilac     Aspilia africanit                                    Pionccr    Small cli nhcr
Conmpositae      Chromnolacna odoraa| Grcen                           I'ionccr   shrulb
Connaraccac      Glicstis fcrr'iginca                      Grccn      Pionecr    Climber
Convolvulaccac  Iponioca involuerala                                  NFP        cliiiber
Cypcraccac       Scicria boivinii                          Grcen      PioIleci   I-lcrb climber
Euphorbiaccac    Alcihornea cordifolia  GYAMA              Grcen      l'ioncer   Trice >5cm
dbhl
Euphaorbiaccae  1Pycnocoma              KAF:IEFIE          Grecen     Sljidc-    siU ub
_        Ill;llolmacrophy                          _ a        bearin    __
Ferns            Ncplhirolcpis biserrata                   Grcn                  1 icrb
Fcrnis          lIncitinatoptcris afer                     Grcen                 1lcrh
Fens            l'ltyrograminia                            Greci      Pionecr    I-lcirb
calomiehmaos
Gramina,e        Acroccras zizamioidcs                     Green      P'ionecr   I ierh
Graminiane       Bamibusa vulgaris      MPAMP'RO           Grecii     Swaimip    'I'rec >5cm
GCrii1iianeC     h'aniCUIll) maNximmilu iioon forest                             I lCrl)
Gramiiiiec       Pei'niseiiliu purpurumta                             NFll'      lIcrb
Gutil'ciaic      I laruLigania          KOSOWA             Grecen     Pionccr    Tree >5CImI
_ muadagascar insis   I                                          dbb
Loganliaceae    Anthodelista           UONl ODE 3RE        Green      Pionecr    Tree >5cm
_______________________  (I_adoa legn sis                      _                 (lbl
Loganmaceac     Amitlmocleista nubilis  BONTODEIL          Qrcci      Pioneer   'I'rcc -5,m
lIbli
Marantaceac     H-lypsclodclphys                           Grccn     IPionleer   Cljinder
violacca
Mcliacuce       Carapl proccra          KWAKU0131SI        Grceti    .ShIade-    'I'rce >5cm
a



Family          Scicntific Name        Common riame        Star      Guildi       Lirc form
rafing
bearing     dbll
Mcliaceac       Cedrclla odorata                       _              ons lorcst  Tiee 5cm
. ]                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dbhl
Mi mosaccac     Albizia zygia          OKORO               Grccn     NPLD        TreC >5cm
specics     dbhi
Moraccac         Ficus cxasperata                          Grccn      Pioiecer   T'ree >5cm
clbli
Moraceac         Musanga cccropioidcs  ODWUMA              Grccn      Pionicer   Trcc >5cm
dbli
Moraccae        Myriatithus liberictls  NYANKOMANINI       Grccn     Sliade-     'I're SCcm
beiaring    dbhi
Myristicaccac   IPycnantihus angolcnsis  OTIE              P'ink     NPLD        Trec c5cm
spccics     dbhl
Palillmac       Cocos tiicitcra                                      non forcst  Tree >5cm
P'alnmac        Elacis guiiiiccnsis    Abe                 Piiik     I'ionccr    'I'rcc >5CI11
Ialmac          Raphiia liookcri       ADOBE               Grcci     Swanip     T'rcc >5cm
P'apilionaccae  Baphia nitida          oDWEN               Grecn      PioLleer   Trec 5cin
dhh
P'apilionaceac  B3aphia PLIbCSCCIIS    oDWENKOBIRI         Grcc     Pionccr   *Frce >5cm
_________        ~~dblh
Papilionaccac   MLllcitia irvinci                          Grcen      P'ionccr   T rce >S5cm
l                              _~~~~~~~~~~~~~dbli
P'apifionaccac  l'tcrocarpus                               Grcin      Swamp      T'rce >5cm
santalinoides                                                    (lbb
Papil ionaccac  Zornia lati rolia                                     N 11'      i-icrb
Passinoraccac    Passillora glabra                                    NFP        Climiber
Rubiaccac       I-lallaca stipulosa     SUBAFIA AKOA       Red        Swamp      Trce >5cm
Rubiaccae       Morinda lucida         KONKROMA            Grcen      Pionccr    TI'ree >5cm
|__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   |b d li
Solanaccac      Solaa1ii;ii tol'viimil                                NIll       shrull
Sterculiiaccac  Coli giganitca          WAI'Al'UO          Grecn      NPLD       'I'rec >5cm
Spe_ spciCs     d)(hii
Sterculiaccac   Triplochitoni           WAWA               Scarlet    Pioiecer   'I'rec 5cm
scleroxylon                     1_111_
' i liaccac      Glyphaca brevis       l1OTO                                     shrub
Typh;iccac       TXypfba domlingcnsis
Ulmaccac        Treimia oricnialis      SLSEA              Grecn      P'ioncer   Tree 5cm
b_dh
Vcrhciaccac     Clero(dci(driuiml %p.                     Green     1Pionccr    Small climhcr
Vcrbenaccac      Lanilaa caniara                                      NFPl       shirib
I'sidiul.11 guajava                                  non forest  'leel  5cm
Legend
Nl'LD - Non Pionccr Lighlt Demander
NFP - Non Forest Pionecer
dbh - diamecer at breast hciglht



Anncx 3-2: Checklist of plant specics for Dcnyau Forcst Rescrve
Fa:imily                 Specics              Coiullonl namc      Star rain        Guiltl     Life foirmi
AGAVACEAE                 Dracacna                                 Grecn star       Slhadc-    Slirib /
camcrooniania                                             bcaring   slirublet
_________________________                                      ~~~~~~~ ~~~species
ANNONACEAE                Friesodicisia                            Grccn star      NPlLD      Largc woody
vcluti na                                                 specics   climber
ANNONACEAE               Grccnwayodcndron      DUABi3RI            Grccn star      Shade-     T'ree >5cm dibi
olivcri                                                   bcai rig
species
ANNONACEAE                Monodora                                 Grccn star      IPionccr   Trce >5cm dblh
tcnuifolia           MOTOKURADUA                          spccics
ANNONACEAE                Xylopia villosa     oBAAFUFUO            Grccn star      Shade-     Trcc>5cm dbi
bearing
APOCYNACEAE               Aphanostylis                             Grecri star     Sliade-    Large woody
_mannii                                                   hcarina   cliuiuicr
AP'OCYNACEAI.             Baissca brcviloba                        Grccn star      Slalc-     Small woody
bcaring   climber
APOCYNACEAE               Baissca mulliflora                       Grecn star      NPLD       Small woody
.snecies  climlber
APOCYNACEAE               Funtumilia clastica  FRUNTUM             I'ink star      NMLD       Trcc >5cm dbl
Species
AI'OCYNACElAE             Landolplhia                              Grccn star      Nil'lD     Small woody
calabarica                                               _pcics     climibcr
APOCYNACEAI,              Landolphia (ltlcis                       Grecn star       NPl'D     Largc woody
.specics  clinmir
APOCYNACEAE               Tabnacirnontana      OBONAW              Grccn star       Shadc-    T1rcc >5cm dbb
africana                                                  bcai rig
spzecies
A RACEAE                  Culcasia angoleinsis                     Grccni star     Nl'LD      Epiphytic
specics   Climbcr
ARACEAE                   Culcasia parvinlora                      Green star      Shade-    IEpiphiytic
bearing   Climber
species
CAESALPINIACEAE           Anitlonotlia         TOTORO              Grccn star       Shade-    TIrec >5cm dbb
macrophylIa                                               bearing
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                                                     pecics
CAESALI'INIACEAE         Copaifcra             EN I EDUA           Rcd star        Sliadc-   Ilice >5cnm dhl|
salikotinda                                               bcariicg
____________________        specics
CAESALI'INIACEAE          Danicllia ogca       cl-lYcDUA           Pink star        P'ionecr  T rec >5cm tIblu
specics
CAESALI'INIACEAE          Dialiimi dinklagci   DWEDWEEDWI-.        Grecn slar      NMLD       i Trec >5cm:l dhlh
,SI)CCics
CAESALI'INIACEAE          Griffonia                                Greci star       Nl'LD      Largc woody
simlplicifolia                                           _Spcics    climibcr
CELASTRACEAAE             Rcissantia indica                        Grccn star      P'ionccr   Large woody
specics   climber
CELASTRACEAE             Salacia crceta                            Grecn star       NlILD     Largc woody
_ _ _ _ __ species  climber
CELASTRACEAE             Salacia owabicnsis                        Bluc stlar                 Largc woody
._________________________ _____   ___________________ _____   _________________ _   c lim b c r
C



CELASTRACEAE              Salacia staudliana                       Grccn star                 Largc woody
cliimber
COM13itETACEAE            Tcrmiinalia soipcrba  oFRAM 1'itnk star                  Pliojccr  1Trec >5cmdbii
__________________________  __________________ _  _ _______________  _ ___         . _Specie
CONVOLVULACEAL            Calycobolus           MU ITUO            Grccn star                 Laigc woody
african us                                                           Ciiiibc:-
CONVOLVULACEAE            Ncuropcltis                              Grccil star      NlLD      Large woody
acummata                            __                    species    climbcr
CONVOLVULACEAE            Ncuropeltis                              Grccor slar                Small wou-dy
vclutiLma                                                           cli albcr
DICH-IAI'ETALACEAE        Dichapctalum                             Gold star        Shadc-    Snmall woody
filicaulc                                                 bcarimmg  elclambcr
___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ _   _ __ ___ ___ ___ __ sp ec ics   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
DICHIARETALACEAE          DichapcLalum          cSONOWEDIE         Grcii star       Slhadc-  lTrce >5 cml dblh
guilnecrsc                                                bcaritng
. ._.                          .                       ~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~SI)CCics  .
DICIIAl'ETALACEAE         Dicliapctalum                            Grccn star       Sliade-    Smilall woody
palfidumL1                                                bcaring    cliiber
DICIIAPETALACEAE          DichapItalunm                            Bluc star        Nl'LD      Large woody
toxicarium                                                sl_ccics   climllber
DIOSCOREACEAL             Dioscorca                                Grccn star                 Small wvoody
smlilacilolia                                                        climbcr
EB1ENACEAE                Diospyros            oMENEWVAUERE        Blue star        Shade-    TIacc>5cm dibh
hcudclotii                                                bc;ariag
ELJENACEAL                Diospyros            B3ENIKYI             Grcel star     Shadc-     Trcc >5cm dbhi
piscato ia                                                bcaring
________________________________                               ~~~~~~~~~~~SPlCCICS
FUI'I IORLIACEAL          Drypcics clicvalicti                     Gaccn star       Shadc-    Tricc >5cm dOh
bcaring
____________________________                                   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~spzccics   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
EUPI-IOR131ACEAE          Drypcics Iconciisis   KATRlIKA           Blue slar        Shade-     Irec>Scm dbJh
bcara U1g
EUI'IHORIUiACEAE          MaI' iollphytoll                          Grccni star     NPLD      Largc woody
fulvl___l                                                 _pCCICs    cliaubcr
EUPI IORII3ACEAE          Thliccacoris                             Grccr star       Shadc-      Slhrub /
stcnopctala                                                bcaring   slhrublet
feniis                    Adianatum vogciii                        Grcen star                 l icib
ICrIn                     l3olbikis gcnininilra                     Circci smar                   )I ICI)
1criis                    Clcnitis prolcisa                       G(rcci star      I Icrh
Icrs                      LoInar iopsis                             Grecn star
___ __ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __   g incensis   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
FLAGELLARIACLAE           F:lagcllaria                             Grccn star        Pioneer   Small wvoody
gt_illccllsis                           S_)CCiCS                     climber
GRA AINLAL                Le);taspis cochilcaLa                     Gmccin stai     Shaldc-     I Icab
bcaring
GRAMINEAF.                Strcptogyna criniiat  _    _              Greci star                  Herb
ICACINACEAL               Chlamydocarya                            Gold star        Shade-    Small %woody
Im acrocarpa                                               carim__C .__  t)earii  Climber



IRVINGIACEIAE            Irvingia gaboncnsis   AUESEBIUO           Grecn star      Nl'LI      TIrcc >5cmz
spccics
LE3CYTI IIDACLAEI        Napolconaca           oBUA                Giccn star       Sbiadc-  TIrec>Scm dbb
vogclii                                                   bcariging
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _sp e c ies
LECYTI-IIDACEAE           Pctersiantihus       ESIA                Grccn slar       I'ionccr  Trcc >5cm db
macrocarpus                                               specics
LOGANIACEAE              Strychinos alizclii                       Grecn star                  Largc woody
cl imber
LOGAN I ACEA E           Stryclinos spicndcns                      Grecn star       N         L LI)  Large-woody
specics   clinmbcr
LOGANIACEAE              Stryclinos                                Greci star       NPLD       Largc woodly
usamlharcnisis                                            spccies   climber
LOGANIACEAE               Usteria guincensis                       Grccn star       NPLD       Largc woody
._____________________                spccics   clim bcr
MALPIGHIIACEAE            Acridocarpus                             Grceci star                Largc woody
smeatlhi manii                                                      climlbcr
MAIANTACEAE              Sarcophrynium                              Grccn star      Sliade-    IIcrb
brachystachys                                             bearing
specics
MELASTOMATACEIAE          Warncckca                                 Grecn star      Shade-     Shmrb/ slhrblet
icinlbranifoliuml                                         bcaring
species
Ml.LIACEAE                Guarca cedrata      KWABOI-10ItO          Pink star       Shad(le-  l'rec >Scindbh
bcaring
MELIACEAI'.                Trichilia          TANDRO               Grcen star       NLI)      T'rce >5cm dbl
monadelpha                                                spccics
MELIACEAE                 Trichilia pricurcana  KAKADIKURO         Grccn star     NML'D       'I'rcc >5cm dblh
spccics
MENISI'ERMACLAE           Albcrtisia scandcns                      Bliuc star       Slhadc-   Small woody
bearing   climlbcr
specics
MENISPERMACEAE            Splicnoccntrumii                         Grecn star       Shlad(c-  Slhirb /shLublet
jollIyanumil                                              bcaring
specics
MENISPiERMACElAE          Triclisia patcns                         Grcen star                 Small woody
climbcr
MIMOSACEAIE              Acacia                                    Grcen star      NILD      Large woodly
kamcrunensis                                             ,spccics   cliniibcr
MIMOSACEAl.               Piptadeniastrurn     DAI-IOMA            Pink star       NPLD       Tcc >5cm dbh
-africanu mii                                             sp ecies  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
MORACEAE                 Antiaris toxicaria    KYI.N-KYEN          Pink star         NlLD     Ticc>Scmn dbl;
_                                                             I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~spccics ,
MORA\CLAE                Myrianthus                                Grccn star      Shadc-    'I Ice>5cru dbh
libericus            NYANKUMANINI                         bearing
specics
OLACACEAE                 1-lcistcria parvifolia  SIKAKYIA         Grcen star       Shade-     Trcc >5cm dbh
beanring
________ ________ ________Species
OLACACEAE                 Olax ganibccola                          Grecn star      Shade-     Shrlub / shrLbict
bcariig
Ol,ACACI.AI.              Ongokca gorc        BODWE                Grecn slar      Nl'LD      Trcc >Scmidbh
C



OLACACEAE                Strombosia            AFI.NA             Grccn star       Sbadc-    Trcc >5cm dbh
glauccsccns                                               bcari ng
IPALUVIAL                Elacis guinccnisis  ABc                  P'inlk star     PIionccr   Trce>5cm Ibli
s pecies
I'ANDACEAE               Microdcsmis           oFEMA              Grccn star       Sliade-   Trcc>5cm dbi
putbcrla.                                                bcaritig
.._______________________  ___________________ pccies  _-
I'ANDACEAE                Panda olcosa       KOKiROI30BA          Grccn star       Shade-    Trce-5c'm dbi
bcaring
spccics
I'AI'ILIONACEAE           Angylocalyx                             Grecn star       Shadc-    Shrliub /Ishrublet
oligophyllus                                              bcari ng
____________________        species
PAPILIONACEAE            B3aphia niticda      oDWl N              Grccn star       Shiade-   TIree >5cmI dbi
beari ng
IlAI'IL.IONACEAE         Uiaphia pLubcsccins   oDWENKOi3iRI       Grcen star       P'ionecr  'I rec >5cm dbli
sIccics
PAPILIONACEAE             Dalbcrgia                               Grccn star      NPlLD      Large woody
oblongifolia                                             speccics   climiber
IAPILIONACEAE             Lcptodcrris                             Grccn star                 Largc woody
fascicCIlata                                                        climbler
I'APILIONACEAE            Platyscpaluln                           Grecn star       Nl'LD     Large woodly
Iiirsittinim                                             srpccics   climbcr
PAPILIONACEAE            Plicrocarptis                            Bluc star         Species  TIrcc >5cm dLbl
_lmildbracdii
I'IPERACEAE               Pipcr guiniccnsc                         Grecn star      Shadc-     Small woody
bearing   climLbcr
RUBIACEAE                 Aidial gcilipiflora  OTWENSONO           Grcen star      Sliadc-   Ircc >5cm dbi
bcaring
RUBI3ACEAI               Aulacocalyx           NTWESON            Green star       Sha(le-  FIrce >5cm dbi
jasminiflora                                              bearing
Si ecies  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
RUBIACEAE                Collca cbractcolata                      Grccn star       Shadc-    Slhrub / shriubict
bearing
_____ ____ ____ ____ ___.                                              _ .__ __ _ _ __ _ _species
RUILIACLAE               Coryn.lintlic        I'AMI'ENAMA         Greci star      NIL 1)    lICe >5CIII dIhi
pachyccras                                               spccics   _
RUBIACEAE                Craterispcrimiumii    DUADe              Grcen star       Shadc-   TIrcc >5cmi dhbl
caudatuni                                                 ecarinig
RUB3IACEAE               Cremaspora tri flora                     Grcen star       Shaldc-   Large woody
bcaring   climlber
SIlCCiCS
RU131ACEAI                Geophila obvallata                      Grccn star       Shadc-    Shrub/ shrublet
bcai illg
RUBIACEAL                 Pavetta ixorifolia                      Grccn star       Nl'LD     Small woody
specics   climber
RU131ACEAE                Psychotria                              Greci star                 Slitib/ slirublet
suboblhqua
RUllIACI\AI,              Romlilaillilnia      TUKOBLIO           Green star      Sliadc-    Trre>Sc>m dbh
f'



.lispida                                                  bcarinig
ItU BI ACEA E             Rothmannia           SAMAN KU BLE        Grccicntar      Shade-      Tfrcc>5cmn dbb
longillora                                                bcaring
RUBJACEAE                 Rotlihiianiniia      SABOBIE             Grccn slar      Slhade-    Trcc>5cm dbh
whiitfcidii                                               bcaring
spccics
RUB3IACEAE                 rricalysia discolor  K WAEK o FI        Grccn star      Shadc-      Trcc>5cmn dblh
.blcaciillsg
RUBIACE,AE                Tricalysia                                Bluc star       spccies   Sliub/ shl llblet
ol igoncura
ItUBIACEAE               'i'ricalysia pallcins  TUIROMDUA          Grcen star      Slhade-     Trec>5cmtb dbh
bcarinig
RUrACIAE                  Clauscna anisata    SAMANOBI             Grcn star      Plioneccr  Trec >5cn. dbh
SAPINDACEAE               Bliglhia sapida     AKYE                 Grccn star       NPLD      Trce>5cm dblh
SAIPINDACLAE              L3igihia unijugata  AKNYEBIRI           Grcc stai      Shade-     Trcc>5cmn dbl
bcaring
SAl'INDACEAE              Dcinbollia            MMAI'A             Grecn star       Sihadc-   TmrC>5cmi dbi
grandi roli a                                             beat itig
SAl'INDACl,AL             Lccaniiodiscus        DWINDWELA          Grcci star      Shade-    r'I'ice >5cm dblt
cupanioides                                               bear-inig
SAPOTACEAE                Clrysoplhyllumii      DUATADWE           Grccn star       Shadc-   'I'rce >5cm dbb
pruniiforiiic                                             bearitig
_ _~~~~~cwies                _      -
STERCULIACEAE             Cola cariciiolia      ANANSEAYA          Grecen star      Piunccir  'I'icc >Scm dbh
S'l'ERCULIACEAE           Leptonychia          I:oToNUA            Grecen star      Shadc-   'T'icc >5cnm dbli
pubescsmis                                                 ecarting
______________________________                                 ~~~~~~~~sp ec ies   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
S-LEi{CULIACEAE           Ncsogordonta         DANTrA              Pink stalr       Shade-    'I'TCC >5CIll (Ibhi
palpavcri fera                                            bearing
TILIAClAE                 Desplatsia                               Grccn star       Shadc-   'I'rce >5cm dbli
subericarpa          cSONOWISAMl:IE                       bcatiig
________ ________ _______   _____________1_ I3- .RE       species   _     _    _ _
ULMACEAE                 Celtis mlildbracdii   ESA                 Greeo slar       Shade-     rice >5C.I dlb
bcaring
Lcgcnd
NI'LD - Non l'ionccr Lighlt Dciianidcr
g



Appendix 3 Checklist of plant species for Opon mansi Forest Reserve
Fanmily                 Scicn(ific nalilc     Comnimoni nanic     Srl-      Guild             Lifre ronu
AGAVACEAE               Dracacna                                  Grecn     Sliadc-bcairing   Shrib I
camcrooniana                              star      spccics           shrhlilct
AGAVACEAE               Dracacana surctilosa                      Grcen     Shadc-bcaring     Shrib /
star      species           shriblet
ANNONACEAIl             Artabotrys            AKOO-ANO            Grccn                       Large
stenopetaltis                             star                        woody
.cliniber
ANNONACEAE              F ricsodicisia vClutinia                  Grccn     Nl'LD spcecies    Largc
star                        woody
cliiniber
ANNONACEAE              Isolona campanulata,                      Grccn     Shade-bearing     Trcc >5cm
| star     specics           dhil
ANNONACEAE              Monodora myristica    WEDEABA             Grccn     Shade-bearing    lTrec >5cm
star      species           dbi
ANNONACEAE              Monodora tenuifolia   MOTOKURADUA         Grecn     Pioncer species   T'ree >5cm
star                        dHll
ANNONACEAHi              Xylopia villosa      oBAAI Ul UO         Grcen     Shade-bcaring     'IFrcc >5cm
star      specics           (ibiS
Al'OCYNACEAE            Alafia bartcri                            Grecn     N13LD species     Large
star                        woody
clintber
AP(;CYNACEAE            Aph.anostylis mannii                      Cliccn   Shade-bcarinig    Large
star      SpCCICS           woody
climibcr
Al'OCYNACEAE            B3aissca bicviloba                        Grecn     Shade-bearing     SiallaI
star      spccics           woody
climber
AIOCYNACl AE           Farquharia elliptica                      Grccn     NIl'lD species    Largc
star                        woody
climber
-APOCYNACEAE            1 untumia africana    OKAE                Grcen     Nl'LD species      I 'rec >5cm
star                    _   (Ibl
APOCYNACEAE             l:unl.tUmia clastica  I-RUNTUM4           lPiilk    NI'LD species     'rce >5cm
star                        dbhh
APOCYNACEAE             Landoiplia                                Grccn                       Largc
owaricnsis                                star                        woody
climiber
A POC YNACEAE           StrophanthlUs bartcri                     Girccn    Pioneer species   Large
star                        wvoo(dy
climbcr
APOCYNACEAE             Strophianthus gratus                      Pink                        Largc
star                        wvoody
climbcr
ARY\CEAI.A               Culcasia angolensis                      Green     NPLD spccics
star
ARACEAE                 Rhaphidophora                             Grecn     Shadc-bearing
africaina                                 star      specics
ASCLEI'IADACI.AE        Dregca crinita                            Grecn     Pionccr species   Small
star                        woody
c climber
ASCLEI'IADACLA      I   Gongroncina                  C__          Grecn     Pioniccr spCcies  Small



Fam in ily              Sciciitific nainic     Coliiniaoni ma a c1 | Star    Guild             Li fe foi- r
_________ _________ ____   ___ _________ ________ra  lin g
latifoliumIl                              star                        woody
climber)
BOMB3ACACLEA[           Cciba pcntandr.a      ONYINA               Grccn   | iionecr speciCs   'I'rcc >5c
slar                        dhii
CAESALI'INIACEAE        Anithonotha            TO1TORO             Grecn     Shade-bcairinig  'I'lcc >5cm
niacroplhyla                               star     spccics           dbla
CAESALPINIACEAE          13ussea occidcntalis  KI'Ol>ORcl'rc       Grcen     NPLD species     'I'rcc >5cm
_star                        dbh
CALSALI'INIACEAE         Dialiuii diniklagci   DWEDWEEDWE          Grcen     NPLD spccies     'I'rcc >5cm
star                        dbh
CAESALLPINIACEAL         Distemonanthus        13ONSAMDUA          P'inik    Nl'LD species     TrCe >5cm
bentham ianis                              star     _dbh
CAESALI'INIACEAE        Griffonia                                  Grccn     Nl'LD species    ILaige
siuiiplicifolia                            star                        woody
climbcr
CELASI'TACEAE           Campylosicimioti                           Grecn     Largc woody
angolcinsc                                star      climibcr
CELAST'IRACEAE           I-lippocratca vignci                      Black                       Laige
star                        woody
c_ _li_bca e
CELAS'I'RACEAE           Locscnericlla                             Grecn     P'ionecr spccics  Large
africana                                   star                        woody
CELAS'IRACIAE            Siiiicratca                               Grcci                       Large
wchvitschii                                star                        woody
cii iriber
COMMLLINACEAE            Colcotrype laurcntii                      Gr-cein                     [-Iciab
COMMELINACEAE            P'alisola bari- i        _                Grecn     P'ionicer spccics  I Icrb
star
CONNARACEAE              Agclaca pcntagynia                        Grecia    Sliadcl-bcaiiig  Large
agg.                                       sar       species           woody
CONNARACLAE              Agcica paradoxa                           Grccn     NP'LD spccics     Large
star                        woody
cli lber
CONVOLVULACEA[E         Calycobolus            MUl UO              Grecii                      Largc
africanius                                 star                        woody
cliinibchr
CUCURBI'I'ACI.AL        Gcrrardanihlus                             Grcen     Pioneer species   Smiiall
pallictlatus                               star                        woodly
DICI IAP'ET'ALACEAE     Dichalpctalum                              Grccil    Shdldc-bcarinig   SsiaNl
pallidum                                   star     specics            woody
climbiher
EBUENACE3Al             Diospyros vigilci                          Blue      Sliade-bcarinlg   'I'rce >5cm
star      species           (lbi
EU'I IORBIACEAE         Elacophorbia           AKANI               Grccn    IPionccr species   Trce >5cm
gradiflirojia                              star                       dh1a
I'ci Is                 I'tcris acantholICura                      G rccn                     l- crb
sl_sar
fean1s                  Adiantu.11 vogclii                         Grccn                      l[cab
star



Family                  Scicntific name      Coniiioni 1  c      St(ar     Guild            Life folGuii
rating
Icrns                   Lomariopsis                              Grccn
gtUliccilsis                             star
fcrns                   Microsorium                              Grccn                      Epiphytic
pulincaturn                              star                       hicrb
fcrns                   Arlbrop(cris palisotlii                  Grccn                      llcrb
star
ferns                   Pleris togocnsis                         Grccn                      1-lcrb
star
F:LACOURTIACEAE         Scottcilia klaincana  TIABU'I'UO         Pink      Shadc-bcaiing    'rcc >5cm
. ______________________                  star      species          dbli
GRAM IN EAE             Lcptaspis cochicala                      Grecn     Shadc-bcari ng    I lcrb
star      spccics
GRAMINEAE               Olyra latifolia                          Grccn     Shladc-bcaring    I Icrb
star      spccics
GRAMINEAE               Oplisilicnus lirtclltis                  Grecn     I'ionccr spccics  I-lcrh
IIERNANDIACEAE          Illigera pcntaphlylla                    Grccn     NIlLD spccics     Largc
star                       woody
cli inbcr
ICACINACEAE             Chlamilydorarya                          Gold      Shadc-bcaring     Smiall
macrocarpa                               star      spccics           woody
climiibcr
ICACINACEAL             Rliapliiostylis                          Grecn     Shade-bcaring     Largc
bcniniicisis                             star      spccics           woody
ICACINACEAL             Rl1iaphijostylis                         UJluc     Sliadc-bcarinig   Lai ge
cordifolia                               star      spccics           woody
climbcr
ICACINACEAE             Rhaphiostylis                            Grcci    Sliadc-bcarinig   Large
fcrruginca                               star      spccics           woody
climber
LECYI'l IIDACEAE        Napolconaca vogclii   oBUA               Grccn     Sliadc-bcaiinig   Tree >5cm
star      spccies          dbb
LE-CYTIIIDACEAE         lcicrsianitlius      ESIA               Grccn     Pionccr species   Trec >5cm
macrocarpus                               star                       dbil
LEEACEAL                Lcca guinccisis                          Grccn     Pioniccr spccics  ShLrub I
slar                       shIi ,,lIh t
LOGANIACEAE             Strychilos                               Grccn                       Laigc
caimptonicura                             star                       woody
clim ibcr
LOGANIACEAE             Stryclimos                               Grccn     Nl'LD spccics     Large
phacotricha                               star                       woody
_____________ _  |_______________   ______________________________                  c li i hb cr
MARANTACEAE             Alaciidia confecr-ta                    Grccin                     1-crb
star
I'IARANTACEAL           Hlypsclodelphys                          Grcci    Pionccr spCeIcs
violacca/poggcana                         star
MARIANTACIEAE           Salcophlynium                            Grcci    Shadc-bcaring     1-Icrb
brachystachys                            slar      species
-MELIACEAI              Carapa proccra        KWAtKUOBESE         Grecn     Shadc-bearing    'I'rec >5cm
star      species          dOi
MELIACEAL               Enitandroplir-agmia   EDINAM             Rcd       Nl'LD specics    'I'lcc >5cm
lAnangolnse                              slar                      fdbh,  i
Mvil l.lACl AI.         Guiarca ccdrata      KlWA13OHORO        Pink      Shadc-bcarin    | 'I'rec>5c
j



Famiiily                Scicitiflic liainc     Coiniiiion ianie    Star      Guild             Lif foriii
star      spccics           dbh
MELIACEAEI Khaya ivorcnsis                     DUBINI              Scarilet  NPLD spccies     lTrcc >5cm
star                        dbh
MELIACEAEi              Tricliia monadcIpha   TANDRO              Grccn     Nl'LD speciCs     T rcc >5cm
star                        tibli
MELIACEAE              lTriciliia pricurcana  KAIKADIKURO         Grccn     NIlLD species     TIrcc >5cm
star                         bldhi
MELIACEAE               Trichilia tcssmaninlii  TANUNINI           Grccu     NIlLD spccics     Ircec >5cm
star                        dbli
MELIACEAE               Turracanillus          APAI'AYE            I'ink     Sliadc-bcaring    TIrcc >5cm
africanuis                                 star     species           dbl.
MIMOSACEAE              Acacia kamcrunicinsis                      Grccn    NMILD spccies      Large
star                        woody
climnibcr
MIMOSACEAE              Albizia zygia          oKlORO              Grecn     NPLD species      'Ircc >5cm
slar                        dbli
MIMOSACLAL              Cylicodiscus           DENYAo              Bluc      Shadc-bearing     'Ircc >5cm
gabuniciisis                               star     species           dbh
MIMOSACEAE               Piptadcniastrum       DAHIOMA             Pink      Nl'LD spccics     Free >5cm
aFricaniumil                               star                       dbli
OLACACEAE                Olax gambccola                            Grccn     Sliadc-bearing    Shi lb /
star       cics             shrtible
OLACACEAE                Ptychopctalum                             Grccn     Shadc-bcaring     Shrub /
anscps                _                    star     species           shli uiel
OLACACEAE                Stronilbosia          AFENA               Grcen     Sliade-bearinig   'Ircc >5cm
glauccscens                               star      species           cblhh
ORCI-I DACLAE           Coryniboikis                               Grccn                      I-lcrb
corymibis                                  star
IPALMAE                  Elacis guinccisis     ABc                 Plink     P'ionccr spccies  'rcc >5cm
______ _____ _____ _____ ___   _ _____ _____ _____ _____   ____ _____ _____ ___ _   s ta r  d b lm
I'ALMAE                  Eremospatha                               link                        Large
macrocarpa                                 star                      vwoody
ciimi ber
I'ANDACEAE               Microdcsiiiis         oFEMA               Grccil    Shadc-beam iig   'Ircc >Scm
_pubcrula                                 star      spccics           dblh
i'Al'ILIONACEAE         Baphiia nitida         oDWEN               Grccn     Sliade-bearing    T'rcc >5cm
star      SCCiCS           (Iblb
PAPILIONACEAE           Dalbcrgia afzeliana    DAWA-DAWA           Glcecn    Nl'LD spccics     Large
star                        woody
Climber
I'AIPILIONACEAE         Dalbergia                                  Grecn     Nl'LD spCeIcs     Large
oblongifolia                               star                       woody
climbler
I'Al'ILIONACEAE         Lcptodcrris                                Green                       Large
fasciculata                               star                        woody
chinlbcr
I'A1'ILIONACEAE         Millettia zcchiania    FAFRAIIA            Grcen     Pioncer spccics   'Ircc >5cm
slar                        dIbh
POLYGONACEAE            Al'robruninliciiha                         Grcen                       Smlalil
crccla                                     star                       woody
climber
RH-IAMNACIAE            Ventilago africania                        Grccil                      Lai ge
._________________________                         slar                        w oqdy



Family                  Scicitific m1 im1c     Comilit noli amilc  Star      Guild             Life.fonn
cliiiimcr
RtUBIACEAE               Aulacocalyx           NTWESON             Grccn     Sliadc-bcaring    'I'rcc >5cm
jasminiflora                               star      spccics           dbh
RUBIACEAE               Cliassalia kolly                           Grccil    Pionccr spccics   Slhrub I
star                        shrublct
RUBIACEAE               Cofrca cbractcolata                        Grccn     Shadc-bcaring     Slhub I
star      spccics           sliribict
RU B11 ACEA 1           Crcmaspora Iri nora                        Grecn     Shadc-bca iing    Large
star      spccies           woody
climber
lUB3IACE3AE             Eiuciliiia lonigiilora  GYANEYA            Grccii                      Slhrub /
.    star                        shrublct
RUBIACEAI3               Psychotria                                Grccn                       Slhrub /
pedutinclaris                              star                        slrtibict
RIJBIACEAE              T'arcniia fusco-flava                      Grccn     NIlLD spccies     Small
star                        woody
climber
ItUUIACEAE              'I'ricalysia palIcns  TUROMDUA            Grccn     Sliadc-bcarinig   'r cc >5cm
star      spccics           dliii
RUBIACEAE                T'ricalysia rcticulata                    Bluc                        Shlub /
star                        shrubiet
RUTACEAE                Clauscna aiisata       SAMANOBI            Grccn     I'ioniccr spccics  Trcc >5cm
slar                        dlhh
SAPINDACEAL              Blighia sapida        AKYE                Grcc    NI'LD specics     Trec >5cm
star                        dbh
SAI'INDACEAE             Chytranthus carmcus   ONIBONANUA          Grcci     Sliadc-bcariiig  'I'rcc >5cm
star      spccics           dbi
SAPINDACILAE             Chylrantihus          ESUINIA             Grecei    Swamp) SpCCiCs    Trcc >5cm
macrobotrys                                star                        dbi
SAl'INDACEAE             Dcinbollia            MMATA               G-ccn    Sliadc-bcaii ig   'i cc >5cml
grandifolia                                star      spccics           dbli
SAI'INDACEAL             IPaullillia piniiata                      Grccn     Pionccr species    Smlall
star                        woody
ciiinlbcr-
SAI'OTACEAL              Aniiigcia robusta     SAMIFENANINI         Pulik    Nl'LD spccis      'Iree >5cm
star                        dblh
SrERCULIACLAE3           Cola gigantca         WATAPUO             Grecn     NIlLD spccis      'I'rcc >5cm
slar                        dbl1
STI RCULIACLAE           Leptonychia           FoToNUA             (iiccii   Shladc-beaz ilig  Ti cc -ScmI
RULAcsccClE           '                     star      spccics           dl
ST13RCULIACEAL          Ncsogordonila          DAN'I'A             Pink      Shadc-bcarinig    TIcc >5cm
papavcrif,cra                              slar      spccics           (Ibl
STEIRCULIACEAE PAcrygota iiacrocarpa           KYEItEYc            Rcd       Nl'LD spccics     'I' eSc>5i
stal                        dlii
STEKCULIACEAL            Stcrculia obloiiga    ol-IAA              Grccn     NPLD specics      'I'rec >5cm
star                        (Ibli
STLRCULIACEAL            Sterculia Liagacantila  SOFO              Grccil   Pionccr spccies   'I'rec >5cm
STEI(CULIACEAE           Triplocihitoni        WAWA                Scarict   Pioneci spccics   Trcc >5cm
selcroxyloii                               star                        dbli
ULMACEAL                 CGelis mildbracdii              ESA            Grccn      Sliadc-     Trcc >5c
star       bcaring     dbi
._________________________                                                   5li cc i_s



Family                  Scicntific name     | Commllon nanic     Star    | Guild             Life form
]             | l~~~~~~alinIg  I
ULMACEAE                Cciltis zcnkcri                 ESAKoKo        Grccn     NPLD        TIrcc >5cm
star       spccics    dObh
VERBENACEAE             Clcrodendruiii capilatumil                     Grccn      l'ioticcr   Small
star       spCcics     woody
VERIBENACEAE            Vitex grandifolia               DINSINKRO      Bluc star  Shaldc-    TI rcc >5cm
bearinig    dbli
__                                  __flS           Eic       &~~~. 
VIOLACEAE               Riinorca subinitcgrifolia                      Grcen      Shadc-      Shrub /
star       bearing     slirublcl
___CCiC_J






Rcl'crciiccs
Flail, J.B and Swainic, M.D. 1981. Distributioni and Ecology of Vascular lPlanis in Ghliaa. W. Junk, Thc
l-laguc
I-lawtioriic, W. 1995. Forcst of Gliana Gcographic Inforilationi Exhibitor maniual. IUCN/ODA/1 -cls Dcpt.
rcpublic of Glana.
I luitclinisoni, J. and J.M. Dalzicl. 1954-1972. Flora of wcst Tropical Afiica. Crown Agcnis, Londoni.
IFauna
11






Aiinex 3-4 1Famund I 1st
3.2.1. INVERTEBRA TES/!NSECTS:
I'ivhIum: MOLLUSCA
Class: GASTROPODA (Siails)
Achalinasp. (Snail)
Arclhaclhatina sp.
Pllluiuni: AItTIIIOOPODA
Class: MYRIAPODA
Julius sp. (Millipedc)
Cla:ss: INSEICTA (Iiisects)
Order: LEI'DOPTERA (B3utcrflics)
* F:iailv: I'AI'ILIONIDAE
Graphium pubicenIes
Papilio cy)raeophOilo
Papilio deu,dclocus
. Fatunilv: P'IEItIDAE
Appius sylvia
Caltopsilla flurell'i
- Cuolxlls L'l/ippe
Dixica CuyrJiCor71i1s
A Iylohllr iss l
Niephc'rnia ciigia
* IF:mily: NYI\II1ALIDAE
Acr/aa SJp.
Bemu/tIiislis .%p.
Bicyclhs sp).
Cutlc/ropel'ru C/oW i/i/L'
Oiuax~vesq .~
Cymolhu' .S/).
Danlaus clhtysippus
Euplhedra sl).
I launanumida deedalus
Hypo7(linius11Z1N /isllippus
Ncpis .s'p.
Phlalanta plial/autoi
Salcwnllis anlacalrdii
*  Famuuily: IIESIERIDAE
Cclu'norr/liulux proxiuna
CvliideLs pipisiru.tts
Omiswlr)(Icv I'llollia
l'Pyrrhochulcis iphis
Ta(gliffdesflL'.wo
*  I     y:In': SATIYRVDAE
A



* Family: LYCAENIDAE
Order: OTI IOPTERA (Grasshoppcrs)
Cytriacuniihactris slp
Zonwcc0os vari'gutils
Orler: IIYMENOPTEIRA (Ants, Bces)
Ordcr: ODONA1'A (Dragoniflics)
3.2.2 AMPHIBIANS:
Cliss: AMPIIIBIA
Order: ANURA (SALIENTIA)
* Fimily: 1I'l'lDAE (ClawcdToads)
AkLnopJias. tropicalis (Clawcd Toad)
Famiily: IIYI'LEROLlIDAE
Afriavuls Ilvrsalis (Lcaf foldcrs)
A. Iuevis
-A. mer icensiv
Ilyperolity baui,na,,ie   (Rccd frogs)
1-1. boblrenisis
11. concolor
/I.fiesscive/ris (Eiideiiiic)
11. glu{tlaluS'
IL. glajejiti
IL. picIrl-Citis
Il. sylvuticus  (Endcinic)
11. to/ cldis
+11. I'ridtfluIs,
IL. vinidigldosuts
l     ua. ,%mu arbutvola (Running Frogs)
LLpropehls hjyloivicd (Trcc F i ogs)
L. mzucruotis
L occi(dleatli1s
*   1F;lilly: IIEMISIDAE (Shovcl-noscd Frogs)
IkleisuIs glliunellis (Slhovcl-zioscd Frog)
*   Fa mil': ARTlI I ROLLI'TIDAE (Sqrucakcrs)
Arl ilroleplis pvoeci/uliotus
,1. vanabilis
A, 1y101C7 In, s occlc',l,tll,s
Cua dlogluss (l l'IICOI?IJ'hLx
SchunlOdcCnl'IIla bivi aula
*   Family: RANIDAE (Frogs)
Autbrii si,bs,gillanla
Co,lralwa ollci
B



C de'rvui
+Dicroglossus occipilalis (Comllmlloll Frog)
+Ilylarana albolabris (Commiiiion Frog)
1I. occidentialis
P'itzr'iobullachius accilvnlsis (I'uddlc Frogs)
P. a/lleti
1' batesii
P. calcaa a/us
1'. ghantcetsis
1'. giuluirosui (Guttural Crickct Frog)
P. liberien.sis
P. plicaltus
P. villiersi
I'iyclhdlcnia oequipi/IlCatu (Sharp-noscd Frog)
P. lon1gir'ostrlis
P. Iniaccalt4yensis
P. InlJscurcnlicnsis (Mascarcilc Frog)
1'. supercilialwis
*  F:amily: 13UFONIDAE (Truc 1'oads)
Uiffo iniacuilatuts
+ B. reguldais (Comimioni Toad)
+ B. suxp'iciliaris (Giant Toad)
B. togociusis
* F:anmily: RIIACOIIIORIDAE
*Chii,oniua,,Js r!fesccns (Foamii-nicsl Trcc l:rog)
Order: APODA (GYMNOI"I1ONA)
*l Firiiy: CAECILIDAE (Lcg-lcss Amilplibianis)
G'ollypeles .seraphIini (Caccili iun)
3.2.3 REPTILES
CIlass: REPTILIA
Order: CIIELONIA (TESTUDINATA)
*  F;,iamily: I'ELOM EDUSIDAE (Sidc-ncckcd Tcrrapins)
+ * I'cllmdcul.sa .sitbi fa (Marsh lTcrrapi n) /IS2/
* 1'clusios gabownwsis (Gaboon Tcrrapin) /S:Z/
'. ,iigeCr /S42/
*   Inily: 1'TESTUDINIDAE (-linge-back LandT orloiscs)
+  Kinixys erovsa (Swciggcr's 1-liingcback) /C2/ /S2/
K liotuicalla (llingcd lortoisc) /C.2/ /S.2/
*  I:m ";ilv: IYlUONYCl l lDAE (Soft-shellcd I tlLJICs)
I Ti-ionyx Iiahinguis (Rivcr TIurtle) /I24
Ord1Er: SQUAMA'rA (Lizards and Snakcs)
Suborder-: LACEIRTILIA (SAURIA) (Lizards)
*   Fa:imily: AGAMIDAE
+Agunma gainia (Agania/Rainbow Lizard)
A. pcal aguo/na [sylvanusI
C



*  Family: CIIAMAI.LEONIDAE (Chamclcons)
+ * Chumacleo graci,hs (Chamclcon) IC.2/
*  Fazimily: GEKKONIDAE (Gcckos)
Anicyilodactyliu. .vpiiiicollis
+I-kcmiclact iuls brookci (Commilon I louse/Brookc's Gccko)
H.Ufasciatlus (Bandcd Gecko)
+Lvgodactylus conrauli
L. picilurauifs
I Vnmily: LACERTIDAE(Spiny-footcd Lizards)
1 loluspis gutelnlfulri
*  Family: SCINCIDAE (Skimnks)
CophoVcincopus (hwuns
Lj'gosomafeiwancli
Mabuya albilabriis
+M. af/ints
AM. polyiropis
AH!. iodenibiugi
A'Iochlus gmi:lCL'llsis
Pa maspis togoensis
*  Family: \'AIRANIDAE (Monitors)
'- * Varainuius niloticim (Nilc Monitor) IC.2/ /S.2/
*  Family: AMPI IISBAENIDAE (Lcg-lcss/Wori- Lizarcds)
Amphi.shacna tmutd/lleni (Wonm Lizard)
SihordAer: SERPENTES (OPH-IDIA) (Snakcs)
*  Family: TYPIILOP'IDAE (Blind/Glass Snakcs)
Typhilops caccalus (Blind Snakc)
T. pnlCiaius (Spottcdl Blindc/Glass Snake)
*  Family: LEPTOTYPIILOPIDAE (Wonn/fhrcad Snakcs)
Leptotyphiops hicolor (Worm Snakc)
L. nar-uosiris
L.sumuzc' ia//i
*  Family: BOII)AE (Boas/Pythons)
Calabariia reilinhicdii (Burrowing/Calabar Python)
F+ lyP1, .%lebac' (African/Rlock Pytlhoni) /C.2/
I Family: COLU13RIDAE (Typical Snakcs)
Appcmmallaclzs mockics
Allraclaspis ateClriulia
A. corpidlec'tc( (Burrowing Vipcr)
/f. irreIuluris
A. ,cliculala
Boiga blanh1/lgi (Blanding's/Brown Trcc Snakc)
iB. pulverkata (Powdcry Trce Snakc)
othiuop/hlalminmus lIuwahiex (Rcd-Imncd Snakc)
ChOamLaYclA /(lfasclutus
Da.spchiisxfsciala (Egg-cating Snake)
Dipsadcoboa dutchesuji
D



D. uPnicCVk
Gonionolopihts klingi (Lcsscr File Snakc)
Grayia smylhii (Smyth's Watcr Snakc)
HIop)sicloph)ly. [Gaxtropyxis] lincala (Grcen-l iincd Snakc)
11. snaragd1ina
H-Io,monotus mnocestus (Small Forcst Snakc)
Lampr-ophis [Boaedonl ir r oraliin (Housc Snake)
L. [B.] oli'accum (Gaboon Watcr Snakc)
L. [B.] vir,gaft trn
Lycoplicioinii loleile (Wolf/Wall Snla.kc)
L. nigroraciculaltui
Mcltclya guirali
M. pocnsis (WcsLcrin File Snakc)
hl. stcnoplhitiiiis
Natricitcrcsfiliginioidcs (Marsh Snakc)
N. varicgata
Natrix [Afronat-iix] anoscopus (Watcr/Ficrcc Snakc)
+PIhilolhanmus carinatus (Grecn Trcc Snakc)
+P. hltcrodrle s (Forcst Frog-calcr)
P. niiidux (Trcc Frog-catcr)
Putemon acanthlima
P. barZthi
P. netllwiclli
Psammiophii pjhillipxi (Olivc Grass Snake)
Thelolotornis kirtlan1dii (Twig/Vinc/Bird Snakc)
Thi-asopsx actiiopivsa (Black 1'rcc Snakc)
7: occideilulix
*   Faiily: ELAIPIDAI, (Cobras and Mambas)
Dcndroaspisjoaicnsoni (Traill's/Grccn/Trcc Mamba)
+D. viridis (Grccn/Trcc Mamba)
+Naja mclanolcuca (Black-and-whitc Cobra)
Pseuidohajc [NajaJ nigra (Falsc Cobra)
P. [N.] goldli (Gold's Cobra)
*  F:aniilv: VIPERIDAE (Vip)crs and Adclcrs)
Althet ix chlorlcchis (Grccn Trce Vipcr)
A. squandigel a
+Buili gaboiiica (Gabooni AdderNipcr)
+17. nasicoinis (Rhinoccros Vipcr)
Cauisus maculatus (Nighlt Addcr)
C liclhtc7.l'tCiin
Ordl( r: CROCOI)ILIA
*  Family: CItOCODILIDAE
* &ocodylus calaphiwactui (Slcnder-sinouled Croc) /I/ IC. /S.1/
+ ' Oscolacung tesliaspis (W. A frican Dwarf Crocodi Ic) /I/ /C.I/ /S.I/
3.2.4 BIRDS
Class: AVES (Birds)
* F1-amily: PI IALACROCORACIDAE (Cormlorants)
Pliclacr ocorav afinicanius (Long-tailed Cormloranit/Slhag)



f* aily: ARDEIDAE (I-Icrons, Egrcts, Bittcnis)
Ardea cincira (Grcy 1-lcron)
A. purlpiurca (Purplc 1llcron)
+ * Bubulcus ibis (Cattle Egrct) IS.I/
Ihtoritces silialli (African Grccn-backcd I-leroin)
* Egriltla olba (African Grcat Whlitc Egrct) IS. 1/
E. arclesiaca (Black 1-Icron)
* E. gaircIla (Littic Egrct) /S.I/
C. itlermzlcia (Yellow-billcd Egrct)
Lvobiychius miuiulits (Rcd-ncckcd/Littic Bittcrn)
1. stluriii (African Dwarf Bittcrn)
Nycic   x rm nyclicoarca (Night 1-icron)
*  F:milv: CICONIIDAE (Storks, Jabirus, Wood-ibiscs)
* Cicoa,ia c piscopus. (Wliite/Woolly-ncckcd Stork/Bishop) /5.2/
*  Family: SCOPIDAE (Hammcrhicads)
Scopus timobirel a (Lcsscr l-laiimmcrhcad/l-lamnilcrkol))
*  Famil: 'ITIIRESI(IORNITIIIDAE (lbiscs, Spoonbills)
* Boshl'chia Ihagcclash (Wcst African Wadada,/ladada Ibis) /S.2/
* I;a.mily: ANAI'IDAE (Ducks, Gccsc, Swans)
* Dendrocygpa vichiala (WVhitc-faccd T'rcc Duck/'Wihli-wishii) /S. I/
* Nctlapus aulmriAi (Dwarf/Pygmy Goosc) /S. I/
' I'cP l roptermI gamnbinsis (Spur-wingcd Goosc) /. I/
* Pwrt o,tewta lia illauibii (Ilartlaub's Duck) IS. I!
*  Fimily: ACCII'ITRICIDAE (Ilawks, Eaglcs, Kitcs, Buzzards)
* Accipiter-badiiis (Eritrcan Shikra) IS.I/
* A. costanilius (Chcstnut-flankcd Goshawk) /S.I/
* A. mellanolecuCs (Black/Grcat Sparrow-liawk) /S.I/
* A. mini/nils [eytury opus] (Wcst African Littlc Sparrow-hawk) IS. I/
* A. iousscnhti (African Goshawk) /S.1/
* Aquiila wvalilbergi (Wahlbcrg's Eaglc) /S.1/
* Elanus cacrulcuv (Black-shouldered Kite) /C.2/1/S 1/
+ * Gjypohlicra avigolecisis (Palm-nut Vulturc/Vulturinc Fish-caglc) /C2/ /S., /
* Kaupifalco mnonogr-aminncus (Lizard Buzzard) /S. I/
* Milvits migrans (African Black Kitc) /I.1/
* Ncophironi monachIIu (Common/I-loodcd Vultuirc) /C.2/ /S.I/
* Poleinacwes bellicosus (Martial Eagic) /S. I/
* I'olybromides r adiants (Wcst African F-larricr-hawk) /5I1/
* Slephanoactims cajon oatuis (Crowncd l-lawk-cagle) /S. I/
* Teratihopius ccaidclaiurs (Batclcur Eagic) /S. I/
* Trigonoceps occtpttalls (Whitc-hcadcd VultLurc) /S. I/
* Uroatr iorcIris miacr-ourrs (Long-tai lcd l-lawk) /jS: //
*  lajEi: FALCONID,tE (IFaicons, Kcsticls, i lobbics)
* IFalco ardlosiaccris (Grcy Kcstrcl) IS. 1/
* F. hiarmicus (Abyssinian Lanner Falcon) /S. I
* F cuivicrt (Aliican I-lobby) /S.I/
*  F:amily: PIIASIANIDAE (Quails, Francolins, Bush-fowl, Guinca-fowl, Phcasants)
* Age/a.les iiileagr-ides (Whitc-rufTed/brcastcd Guinca-fowl) IE/J/S.1I
* FrancolinnA aha,uensi.s (Ahanta Francolin) /IS.1/



* Fa1lbugiulari% (Whitc-tlhroalcd Francolin) /S .1
P.: baculcai alais (B3usli-fowl/Doublc-spurrcd Francolin) IS.I/
* Nuiimda sialeagris (Gray-brcastcd/Coiimmon nHclimct Guinca-fowl) IS.11
* Piilopaci/a peirosais (Stonc Partridgc) IS.I/
* lFnmilY: IHELIOMNITIIIDAE (Finfoots)
P'odica acnc,fi,tuk is (Scwcgal Finfoot)
*  Famil : ItALLIDAE (Rails, Cools, Crakcs, Moorlhcns)
Lai,siocoaaxflavirosira (Black Crakc)
*  Familv: CIIAIRADItIIDAE (Lapwiigs, Plovcrs, Wadcrs, Stilts. Avoccis)
Airvsaala macipmr (Tumstonc)
CulaldH alpina (Dunhli)
C. canulti (KInol)
C nainiuda (Littic Stint)
C  Icstacca [fermrigincaJ (Curicw Sandpipcr)
C forbcai (Forbcs's Thrcc-bandcd Illovcr)
C hlicinicilu (Riigcd l'lovcr)
C maquagalait. (Whitc-fronllcd Sand-plovcr)
C peciari-h. (KiLIliLe.s Sand-plovcr)
Ihaiuintop,i.s Ianiautiaopai (Black-wingcd SliIL)
Limiwoa lupponucu (Bar-tailcd God-wit)
Numemias phacopuis (Whimbrcl)
'lllulo,aaachuis pigilax (Rtufi)
Rccoavirarsia a avoeslla (Avocct)
*   7iinga glaircoa (Wood Sandpipcr)
T. haypulctico (Comimiiloni Sanidpipcr)
7' n'ebildar  (Grcciishank)
T. uag;natiliS (Marsli Sandpipcr)
7: tolumuis (Rcdslianik)
Vancellus.cnegalms. (Scncgal Wattled lPlovci)
*  FI msiily: JACANIDAE (Jacanas)
Actophilalirns na'ujacUala (Africaui Jacana/Lily-troticr)
*  I:,iuiil: JU:URIIIINII)AE (luiick-kinccs, Stonc-curIcws)
Bit; hmnaus .sen'almisu. (Scncgal Thick-knluc)
* F:lmulY: GLAtEOLIDAI (Courscrs. Pratiimcolcs, Crocodalc-birds)
Cur.so:ua. IcaimiunaicA, (lcminnunck's Courscr)
Glls'reli ,umadaIha.m (Collared lPraliiicolc)
*  I -:iily: LAII)AE (Gulls, Tcnis, Skuas, Noddics)
Aaauis fcniuro.Uin (Whitc-cappcd/Black Noddy)
Lara fi.ac.i (Lcsscr Black-backcd Gull)
* Sc'a albifufo,s (Wcst African Liltic Teri) IS:2/
* S. balacniaruill (Dainara Tcmn) /R/ IS:2/
.S. coutgail (Roscalc Tcrn) IS.24
*   hS l11r71do (Comimion Trc) /S.2/
S S. iaiiawiaai (Af'rican Royal Trnm) IS2/
* S. ilgia (Black lcmn) IS2/
* .S. . anidvicc,.sis (Sandwich Tcn) /S.2/
*  FIamil : COLUMBIDAE (Pigconis, Dovcs)
G



 Colthlemba mnalhlrbii (Gabooni Bronzc-napcd Pigcon) /5.2/
 C. uinicincla (Scaly Grcy/Grey Wood/Afcp Pigeon) /S.2/
* .SJItrC)eopeliw .vceimilorqutatct (Black Pigconi/Rcd-cycd Dovc) IS.2/
* StIrcpto)eliusenegaIcnsis (Laughing Dovc) /S.2/
* S. vinacca (Vinaccous Dovc) /S:2/
+* Ti-erCor/  sliaIlis (Grccn Fruit-pigcon) /S.2/
* T bre/,IItteri (Bliuc-licadc(l Dovc) /S.2/
* Taillr cfer (Rcd-bcllicd/billed Wood-dovc/Bluc-spoltcd Dovc) f.S:2/
* r . lYilpaniAl ria (Tambourine Dovc) /5.2/
Family: PSITI'ACIDAE (Lovc-birds, Parrots, Parrakccts, Macaws)
* Agapor-nis p/711liaria (Rcd-hcadcd Lovcbird) /S.2/
* Poiceplalhi.v senegi 'thi.v (Ycilow-bcllicd/ billcd/Scnegal lParrot) /S.2/
 P.viuacaula Armnfi (Senegal Long-tailed Parrakeet) /S.2/
* P.Ajaclis crit hacus (Grcy Parrol/Jaco) /C.2/ IS.2/
* Family: CUCULIDAE (Cuckoos, Coucals, Roadrunilcts)
Cen:trolms.v leutcogastlcr (Black-throalcd Coucal)
C .venegalensis (Senegal Coucal)
Clrysococcyx cutprdeis (Emerald Cuckoo)
C. caplrius (Didric Cuckoo)
C. klnasi (Klaas's Cuckoo)
Clalmactor levaillanti (Lcvai I lant's Cuckoo)
Cuicedutis clalziosais (Black Cuckoo)
C. gullar/is (Ycilow-billcd Cuckoo)
* Family: i\USOPIIAGIDAE (Planitain-catcrs, Touracos)
* Colythaeola cristfala (Grcat Bluc Touraco/P'lantain-cater) /S.2/
* COiniger piscator (Grcy Plantain-catcr) /5.2/
* AMisopliaga violacca (Violet Plantain-catcr) /S.2/
* Taitraco pcr.aa (Gold Coast/Guinca/Grccn-crcstcd Touraco) /C.2/ /5.2/
*  Family: SlTRIGIDAE (True owls, Eagic-owls, Scops owls)
* Bi,bo af-ricamiu.m (Spotted Eaglc-owl) /5.1/
*  Family: CAPRIMIULGIDAE (Nighitjars)
Cp)rnnimIdgu.)s biniotatuts (Brown/Dusky Nightjar)
C. c/hm,actrus. (Long-tailcd Nighltjar)
C. inorinats (Plain Nighi[jar)
* Faimnily: Al'ODIDAE (Swifts, Pinc-tails, Mouscbirds)
AJIiis a.VJia.i (Littlc African Swift)
A. aplms (Comimloln Swift)
A. aiCexi (Batcs' Black Swift)
A. coffAr (Whitc-runipcd Swift)
Cliauctria cassini (Stumpy-tailcd/Cassin's Pinc-tailed Swift)
C. sabinii (Long-lailcd/Sabine's Pinc-tailcd Swift)
C. rnslwxeri (Camcroun Mottled-throatcd/Usslhcr's Pinc-tailed Swift)
C'y/sJ/U/ Iii  palvus (WVCst Afri can l'alm-swift)
*  FI:niily: ALCEDINII)At I(IIAI,CYONIIDA.E) (Kinlgl ishicls)
Alcedlro cristata (MalaclitLc Kiiigfishier)
A. /lecoga.vter (Whitc-bellicd Kingfisher)
A. quadri/ihrachyv (Slhining-bltc Kingfislhcr)
Cceylc ri rlls (pied Kingfishicr)



Cvyx picla (Pygmy Kiingfislhcr)
C lecoCi1ci (Rcd-licadcd Dwarr Kingfishier)
llalcyon bacha (Clhocolate-backcd Kingfislhcr)
H-/. chelicuiti (Stripcd Kinglislicr)
IL. lencoccphala (Grcy-licadcd KingFislher)
IL. imalimbica (Bluc-brcastcd Kingfislicr)
I. senegaleiixis (Scncgal/Woodlanid Kingflshcr)
MWegaclhiylc navximna (Giant Kingfislicr)
Family: BUCEROTIDAE (1-lornbills)
Bilcorvius abyssinici:s (Ground l-lormbill)
Bycanisicsfistulatotr (Pipi ng I-lornbi ll)
1. cyhiJnd/r'ic:is (Browvn-clhcckcd l-lormbill)
13. subcylindi-icus (Grcy-clieckcd l-lormbi ll)
Cerataogj'nmna atrata (Ungung/Black-casqucd l-ormbil I)
C clati (Yellowv-casqucd l-lormbill)
Tockus canninrs (Red-billcd Dwarf Hornbill)
T erythr-orlhynicihtis (Rcd-bcakcd l-lornbill)
T. nastaux (Grcy Dwarf l-lormbill)
T.fasciatus (I'icd/Allicd l-lornbill)
Triopicinitsx c7lboctrisi atis (Wlitc-crcstccl I lorIbill)
*  Family: CAI'ITONIDAE (Barbcts, 'Iinker-birds)
B:lccanodlun c(liailliti (Duchaillu's Ycllow-spotted Barbet)
Gymniobucco calvuts (Naked-faccd Barbct)
Lybius (hubiuts (Bcardcd Barbct)
L. hitirsutus (1liaiiy-brcastcd Barbct)
L. vicilloti (Rcd-spottcd/Vicillot's Barbct)
Pogontilli. alrJJlavius (Rcd-rutm pcd Tinkcr-bird)
P. Icucolainia (Lcimon-rumiiped Tinker-bird)
P. scolopaccus (Specklcd Tinkcr-bird)
P. .vsbsulplurLeits (Yellow-throatcd/Lcast Tinker-bird)
* Family: CORACIIDAE (Rollers)
Cworaciav abyssinica (Abyssinian Rollcr)
C. naaevia (IRtufous-crowincd Rollcr)
Emtysionis glaicutrItus (Broad-bi I lcd Rol Icr)
E. gttairis (Bluc-tlhroatcd Roller)
* Family: MEROPIDAE (Bcc-catcrs)
Mer ops albicollis (BIuc-crowncd/Wlhitc-throatcd Bcc-caler)
Mcitops buillocki (Rcd-tliroatcd Bcc-catcr)
Xi. gulari.. (Black Bcc-catcr)
M'!. Imturclkiri (Bluc-licaded Bcc-catcr)
Fanmilyh   U l'UPI DAE (PI IOENICU LI DA 1,) (1-loopocs, Wood-lhoopocs)
l'ltocnicidus castanciccps (Gold Coast/Forcst Wood-hoopoc)
*  Family: I'ICIDAE (Woodpcckcrs)
Cain pthiera catoli (Brown-eared Woodlpcckcr)
C. nauctlova (Goldcn-backcd Barred Woodpecker)
C njivoxa (BtIff-spottcd Woodpcckcr)
C punctilhigeia (1inie-/Black-speckled Woodpcckcr)
Denhi-opicosfitscescens (Cardinal/Littlc Woodpccker)
D. gabonensis (Gabon/Melancholy Wodpeckcr)



Mcsopicos goeiteu (Wcst African Grcy Woodpcckcr)
M. pyrrhuogasfer (Flirc-bcllicd Woodpcckcr)
*  Famillh: ALAUDIDAE(Larks)
Alirafrua rifocinnamwonea (F lappct Lark)
* Famill: CAMI'EI'IIAGIDAE (Wood-/Cuckoo-slirikcs)
Camnpeplhagaphoelnic'a (Rcd-slhouldcrcd Cickoo-shrikc)
Coracinia az:urea (Bluc Cuckoo-shirike)
*  Family: COIRVIDAE (Crows, Magpics)
+Corn's albius (flicd Crow)
I'tilosloniu.is aferl (Piapiac/ Black Magpic)
* Famnily: DICIRUlRIDAE (Drongos)
Dicrrl-uis adsi,nilis [moidcstus] (Glossy-backcd Drongo)
D. atr-ipeiilnis (Shiiniing Drongo)
D. ludivigi (Squarc-tailcd Drongo)
*  Familv: ESTRI tILDIDAE (Waxbills, lirc-finiclics, Ncgro-finhcics, Mainnikinis)
* Lstriila betngalu (Rcd-clicekcd Cordon-blcu) IS.2/
E E. ilpod/u (Orangc-cihcckcd Waxbill) /S.2/
E. tr-oglodyics (Black-ruiiped Waxbill) IS.21
* Lagono.a icia rujfopicta (Bar-brcastcd Firc-finchi) /S.2/
*L. senegula (Rcd-billcd/ Sencgal Firc-flnch) /S.2/
*   * LouclI,,1- biaLlor- (Black-anid whlite Nlaninikini) /S.2/
* L. cuclilaia BIonIc Mannikin) IS.2/
Nigrita bicolor (Chestniul-brcastcd Negro-finiclh)
N. canicupilla (Grcy-crowincd Ncgro-flncil)
N.fJisconuta (Wlitc-brcastcd Ncgro-filncll)
Pirciesics osrinnus (Black-bcllicd Sccd-crackcr)
Spenlnophiaga liciaeiatiua (Bluc-billcd Sccd-crackcr/Wcavcr)
*  FImimily: 1MBERIZIDAE (FRINGILLIDAE) (Bunl1in1gs, Canarics)
Emibeiau cubuni.v, (Cabani's/YcIlow Bunlilng)
* Sciuimm mozaumbicw (Yellow-fronted Can1ary) /S.2/
* Famuiily: IlIltUNDINIDAE (Swallows, Marltins, Rough-winigs)
- Ilti-undo uby.sinica (SLripc-brcastcd Martini/ Lesscr Stripcd Swallow)
/I. aueliuopica (Ethiopiani Swallow)
IL. cdw,rica (Rcd-rumipd Swallow)
I /fidigula (Africani IRock-mllarLin)
1-1. iligrile (Whilc-lihroatcd Bluc Swallow)
I1 scicgculeuies. (Mosquc Swallow)
PI.uldqopiocne nileins (Squarc-lailcd Rough-winged Swallow)
*  FaImily: LANIIDAE (Slirikcs, Tscliagras, Gonolcks, Gladialtols)
Diyoscopus gulmbenims (Gambiail Plulff-back Shril c)
Lo,iiarius buabaru,, (Gonolck/Barbary Shrikc)
Lamuitis colhlui. (Iiscal Slhrikc)
Niluits afrrc (Northcrin Brubru Shrikc)
Prionops ccmiccps (1-lclmiet-slhrikc)
*  FamI ily: IOI'ACILLIDAE (Wagtails, Pipits, Long-clalws)



A,itlitis ccwvinus (Plain-backcd/Rcd-throatcd Pipit)
A. irivialis (Trcc Plipit)
Macronyx croceuis (Ycilow-throated Long-claw)
Motacilla :guilnip (African Plicd Wagtail)
F    I ily: M USCICAI'IDAE (Flycatchcrs, Wattle-cycs)
AIrtoniyias uissi-ri (Usslhcr's Dusky Flycatchcr)
Balis k i.v uiia (Grey-hcadcd/Pluff-backcd Flycatchcr)
B3. selnegaletnsis (Scncgal Pluff-backcd Flycatclicr)
Ll3adol-nis pallidiUs (I'aIc Flycalclicr)
Eqylhi-oceLcus imiocalli (Rcd-tailcd/Chcstn ut-cappcd Flycatchcr)
F;asclria cinerascens (Whitc-browcd Forcst/Shrike- Flycalchcr)
MelaeILnoniis cdvolioiides (Black FlycaLchcr)
AX. cussini (Cassin's Grcy l:lycatciher)
MAyioparus phlibeLts (Grcy Tit-babblcr/Flycatchcr)
PaIu)olyeiwI conUci cta (Goldcn- /Chcstnut-bcll icd Wattlc-cyc)
TersipIloite [Tch:itrca] viricdis (Paradisc l lycatclicr)
T IujiventeiL (Rcd-bcllicd Ilaradisc Flycatchcr)
Tiochucwcmv C nigrCoiliit-Callts (Dusky Crcstcd l:lycatcher)
*  FI imilv: NEC ITARINJIDAE (Sunbirds)
AiIthceptes.v collor-is (Collarcd sunbird)
A1.firaJci (Frascr's Scarict-tuflcd Sunibird)
A. loigiuemilar-ei (Violct-backcd Sunbird)
Nectariinia acielberti (Bui f-tlhroatcd Sunbird)
V. butcsi (Batc's Sunbird)
V. chllomlig:.s (Olivc-bcllicd Sunbird)
N. cocciniguste.'r (Splcndid Sunbird)
N. cupr-eus (Coppcr Sunbird)
N. cyaniolciniia (Bl uc-thlroatcd Brown Sunbird)
N. olivucca (Olivc Sunbird)
N. pulchIela (Beautiful Long-tailed Songbird)
N. scinrmnui (Littic Grccn Sunbird)
N. sciwgalci:sis (Scarlct-brcastcd Sunbird)
N. siqm-bo (Superb Sunibird)
I Flihil: ORIOLIDAE (Oriolcs)
Oriiolis aulalits (Alrican Goldcni Oriolc)
0. braclyr)lwhncl1ns (Black-hcadcd Oriolc)
0. nig:ipcnius (B3lack-wiingcd Oriolc)
*   Family: I'ARIDA     (Tits)
l'rIIII.V L'eiComIeIlV (Whliic-shouldcIcd Bl3ack Til)
*  Family: I'LOCEIDAE (Wcavcr-birds, lalm-birds, Sparrows, Bishops)
* EiiplcCesV cafcr (Napolcon Wcavcr/llcd-crowncd Bishop) /S.2/
* E. orix (Orange/Rcd/Littlc Bishop) /S:2/
* Malimbus mahnibicus (Crested Malimube) /S.2/
* M. i/cins (Blue-billcd Malimbc) /S.2/
* M. ribricollis (Rcd-hcadced Wcavcr/Malimbc) IS42/
* Md. scutalus (Rcd-vciitcd Wcavcr/Malimibc) /S:2/
+P'aisse- giriseus (Grcy-hcadcd Sparrow)
* Ploccus caslnicofitscus (Clicstniut Wcavcr) IS.2/
± 1'. cucililatius (Villagc Wcavcr) /S.2/
* P lieligiii (1-lcnglini's Maskcd Wcaver) /S.2/
* P. inclunoceplhalhs (Black-licadcd Wcavcr) /S.2/
1K



* P. pizelni (Littic/Slcindcr-billcd Wcavcr) /S.2/ 
* P. s.upsercilousus (Compact Wcavcr) /S:2
 P. vdau.s (Vitcllinc Maskcd Wcavcr) /S2/
Quclea Cryhi-/ops (Rcd-licadcd Dioch/Quelca)
*Fam:ilyl: I'YCNONOTIDAE (Bulbuls, Otokus, Unritlc-bills, Lc,lf-lovcs)
Anudropadus gracalhrostlis (Slcidcr-ballcd Otok)
A. grucilhs (Oiok/LitLic Grcy Grccnbul)
A. laulirostis (YcIlow-wh6kcrcd Otok)
A. wvrcnis (Littic Grccn Bulbul)
Ducpopgon iiidiculor (Whitc-tailcd/i-loncy-guidc Grccnbul)
IBlda culicap)illa (Grcy-hcadcd Bristle-bill)
D. sjndacij'lu (BriMllc-bill)
CiGi7ger burbulus (Bcardcd Bulbul)
* C oli'aceus (Ycilow-throatcd Bulbul) IVI
.unuoliuS Sulfatiu (Spoticd Bulbul)
Nacalor7 chloris (Wcst African Nicalor)
Plillaslrcpl,ar.s Jluavcollis (Ycllow-thlroatcd Lcor-lovc)
/. icler-nus (Lcsscr Ictcrinc Grccnbul)
*  Fnmily: SALPORN 1ITHIDAE (Crccpcrs)
SalpoluaiLs .palunalu (Nilc Spottcd Crccpcr)
*  Fnnailv: S'l'UltNIDAE (Starlinigs)
Lumptvrotorn,m cuultaUts (Lonlg-tailcd Glossy Starling)
L. cupII COccituda (Coppcr-tailcd Glossy Stat liig)
* L puiapuimcus (Purple Glossy Starliig)
L .spIlendiduada (Splendid Glossy Starling)
*  Ftmmlv: SYLVIIDAE(Warbicrs,Cisticola..CliT-ciharrs, Cunaroptcias,Glasm-cycs) (50)
Apulisflavdad (Ycllow-chcstcd Apalis)
Cwaaarop:cra braevicaudata (Grcy-backcd Camaropicra)
C. svywiccilhra.i (Ycilow-browcd Glass-cyc/Camaroptcra)
Cisticula ba aclp era (Short-wiaig Grass-warbicr/Sil iiig Cimicola)
Ercaaaomnelapasill/u (Grccn-backcd Ercmomclca)
Il)lh/) pui imu (Grcei I lylia)
Ilypcr,geLtus alricq)s (Molho/Oriolc Babbler/Warbler)
J'171ia 'rJhlroJplcI a (A frican/URcd-wi ngcd WarbIcr)
P. subfluvu (Wcbt African Primia)
Shaloeucucs ,,,iatdlis (Moustached Scrub-wai bicr)
Sylir' vare,.s (Grccn Cronibcc)
* Fa;mily: *riMALIIDAE (l3abbicrs, Akalats)
Mulocuctincla cleavDan (Blackcap Akalat)
7;, do:decs plebeia (Browii .abblci)
* I:ainmlv: *rUlDIDAE (Tlhrushes, Alcilics,Cliats, Nighiungalc, Ekwalati) (23)
ulltilhe hudde,autuc (Wliitc-tailcd Firc-crcst Alcilhc)
Ceicoaaclijwnhalcaairs (SIpcckvrcicr/Ccrcomilcil/itcd-Lailcd Cliat)
Alyroni.cocichllu ajilbafrons (Whitic-accd Black Chatl
SRl/pih oUJ JII yuti uthlw i (ForcsL Robin)
*  l     y:i : ZOS1EIRtOPIDAE (Whitc-cycs)
ZoterfJop. sCiJeigalcilM ( Ycl low/Scncgal WliI c-cyc)
L



Class: MAMMALIA
Order: INSECTIVOIO     A
*  i,ilyv: SOiiUCDAi5 (Shrcws)
Crcoadurua spp. (Whiic-tootlhcd Shrews)
C. guiiadiccpi. (Large-headed Forest Shrew)
Or:!er:d (LITI   TPIiR'D A
Stiborler: MECACHIR01TERA
* i_....;i. vr. PT?)lhflfrelfAr.
Eidoloi lIscivaii (African Fruit Bal) IS.2/
* I-Immi.enailnus mourorus (I-Iamincrhcadcd Bat) I,/21
* Nanounyc'ri.s i'ddkampi (VcMdIamp's Dwarf Bat) IS.2/
Megaloglouus ivocriermunn (Long-tongucd Bat) IS.2/
Siubordler: MICROCIIIROPTERA
*  FRimil: RtIIINOLOIPIIIDAE (Horscshioc Odis)
I 1lippwiaidrms .p. (Lear-noscd Bats) IS.2/
*    a:umilv: VESI'EItTILIONIDAE (Vcspcr Bats)
0 vMunidlho muluonleyi (MVoloncy'bi';ahuid BI a!) jS:2j
*Ii ppsptrellus 3ppw. (PipisirclIcs) IS:24
Ortler: PRIMATES
PIl'cu'rodicoI.m pollf (Cominon/II/Bosm3lans 'oLto) /C2/ IS. 1/
* F:amil : GALAGONIVAE
* Galgoasgcngale. as (Scncgal Galago/Biush Baby) /C2/ IS.I
0 Galugoikles deiic((luf(LbsscrlDwarfGalago) IS. I/
*  FInIllily: CERCOP'ITIIECIDAE(Monkcys)
Ceo coccbaa.a cays (Wlitc-crownicd Mangabcy)
+ 0 CcrcoptIhecu.s n iono (Monia Monikcy) /C2/ 1S.21
0 C  xiaaUiIala (Lsscr wlhitc-noscd Monkcy/Gucnoni)
Co/obias puiykomo.A (Bi3ack-and-wihtc/Kinig Colobus) jS:ij
I'lldlocolohbns badnat (Rcd Colobus) /K/ /C2/ 1S.I/
* ProLollm w'e-uus (O!!Vr r tn ss)` ,R,1 ,4r 71 PC 1
* I nlllilv: 110O1INIDAE (Aoeh and I-Iunmnls!
zPun Iro,gl'Og yfts (Chimpanzec) /C./ /S.I/
ORU!Er: PIIOLIDOTA
* Faimily: MANIDAE
I Plauiaganmi I/-Ia'CSp/JI (Trcc langolin) /S.1/
*.Smmi.aa gigvileua (Giant Ilangoliin) /S.:1
w U, omuinas ied acll"ldviu (Long-oialcd lPanlgol in) IS.I/
Ordtier: itODENTiA
*   Fa:mnmmI: SCIUIUDAE
1--      1U1 tIWU-IlUdUVU IUI;') 04I~LtiIIIAI
r hnonscauir-uts ancLyth'rus (Rcdlcss Trec Squirrcl) /S.2/
F lP re!wBom (Orlnmop-hfira Is Trer- namiwrl IT 71
M



* F pp-rhlapus (Cuvicrs Fire-rootcd Trec-squirrcl) /5.2/
ParaxreuspewmCita (Small Grccn/Busih Squirfcl)
Prolaxerrus tangei-i (Gianit Forest Squirrel)
*  Fmiily: ANOMALUItIDAE
* AnomialurIus bteeerofli (B3ccccrofl's Flying Squirrel) IS.I/
* A. der bianois (Derby's Flying Squirrel) IS.I/
+ A. pcli (Iel's Flying Squirrcl) IS.I/
*  Fainil : MUIIIAE
+ 0 Ca icetumy gaiaibaiaius (GambianluPouciecd Giant Rat) IS:2/
Dcasymys nacomlatls (Shaggy/Watcr/Marsh Rat)
DCphomys defua (Brisic-liaircd Trcc/Dcrua Rat)
l yboiays Irivirga1as (lircc-stripcd Mousc)
1lyloinjIy scUs alleika (Allcins Climbinig Wood Mouse)
H1. siella (Climbinig Wood Mousc)
Lopiauroioj.n sikapiusi (Rusly-bcllicdlnoscd Rat)
Mais spp. (Common Micc)
Pt aoinys lullbergi (Tullbcrg!s Sofl-furrcd Mousc)
*  FaImily: II S'IItICIDAE (I'orcupincs)
* AllJweasr,ai afincani.t (Brusli-tailcd Porcupine) IS.2/
* Fn mily: THIRYONOMIDAE (Grasseutters)
+71Tryonomjs sivindciraaiails (Cultling Grass/Canc Rat)
(grdEqr: CARNIVOItA
*  Famnily: lElRI ESI IDAE
 Atilmai. pu1dl^aiims (Marsll Mongoose) /S2/
* Civellci,. caivemu (Arrican Civct) IS. I/
 Crossurchlus Cabscu Ls (Kusimiiansc) IS.2/
& LeiU.t'iL ,,ucdilugc, (Largc-apotlcd Genet) IS.I/
llerpes.%sc.s .lahgiptinca (DwarriSlcndcr Mongoosc)
N Nanihna buuiukia (I'wo-spotlcd Palnii-civct) IS.I/
*  FIamily: FELIDAE
I rFch. aa ula (Alieani Golden Cat) /S 1/
Order: HYRACOIDIEA         (Hyrmncs)
Family: PROCAVIIIDAE
+ Dnchdioly-rca ciotsuII.s (Trc/Wcstcrn l-Iyrax) /S.1/
Order: IPROBOSCIDEA (Elcphanits)
* Family: ELEI'IIANTIDAE
Lavoloionia africaia (African Elepliani) /VI ICI/ IS.1/
Order: ARTIODACTYLA
*  Family: SUIDAE
H IIylochIoeti. iiieiainci tzageii (Giant Forcst liog) IS.I/
Polanimhccrua.s pumrca.m (Recd ltivcr I-log) /A21
* F:anmily: IBOVII)AE
+* Cep/halophluis tnstih (Bay Duikcr) IC2/ IS:2/
1 I C  ILrmLm'elIh (Ma;xwcll N Duikcr) IS.2/
C iuIgtC- (Black Duikcr) /IS21
N



* C sylvicuilior (Ycllow-backcd Duikcr) /C2/ /IS1/
* NCutO-agUs 1)yglgaCeus (Royal Antclopc) /S42/
* Synicerus ctcffe (African Butlalo/Busih Cow) /S.2/
* TragelalAus sci ilMus (Buslibuck) 15.21
LEG END:
Naitim:mil or- Gloibal CoIscrvI mlion Statuls:
* III CN ....I NTERNA TIONAL UNION FOR TH-IE CONSERVATION OF
NATURE (RED LIST OF TIREA TENED ANIMALS, 1986)
/E1 .. Endang-crcd (In dangcr of cxtinctioni, and survival unilikcly if hlc
causal factors colltiiluc opcrating)
Vulticrable (Uclicvcd likcly to miovc lo "Endlaingcrcd" category, iftlic
causal factors continiuc opcraling)
/1/ ... hidetcrinitiatc (Kinowin lo bc '"Ei:(lligdercl" or "Vtuilierublc", bul
therc is nol enoughi information to say whicii catcgory is
appropriate)
/IR/... Rare (Siiall localiscd world populations, and Ilicrclbre at risk, but arc
currcntily not "Endligcreil" or " i'tlwi rablc ")
* C IElS .      CONVENTION ON ON INTERNII TIONAL TIADE IN
ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WI'JLD FLORA AND EA UNII
(A1 PPENDICES, 197.5)
/C./ .. .Appcndix I (Thrcatciicd spccics whicih caninot bc lradcd in)
/C2/... Appendix 2 (Spccics for whiich lcvcls of tradc arc limiced)
NA TIONAIL WILDLIFE CONSERV1ATION REGULATIONS
(SCIIEDULES, 1995)
/S:./ .Schedule I (ThIic hunltinig, captur ing or destroyiig of tiese spccics is
prohibilcd at all timcs)
1S.2/ . Schicdulc 2 (Thc huniniiig capturing or destioyinig of thcsc spcics
is absoluicly prolhibited betwcc  I" August and 15'
Dccmibcr of anily scasoi. The hunitinig, capturing or
dcstroying of aniy youig animiial, or adult
acconipamcid by its young, of thcsc spccics is
absoluicly prohibitcd at all titiics)
0






ANNEX 3-5a        SURVEY INSTRUMENTS
SOCIO-CULTURAL AND ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
STUDY FOR VRA'S POWERLINE EXTENSION PROJECT
QUESTIONNAIRE FOR AFFECTED PERSONS
A.    ETHNIC, CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS BACKGROUND
1.    a.    Name of
respondent........................................................................
b. Name of Community.
c. Name of District .
d. Name of Region.
2.    Sex of Respondent       1. Male .............  2. Female.<
3.    What is your age .........................................................
4.    Which ethnic group do you belong to?
1 ) Brong
2) Asante
3) Ewe
4) Fanti
5) Wassa
6) Nzema
7) Northern ethnic group
8)  Other, specify......................................................................................
5.    What religious community do you belong to?
1) No religion
2) Christianity
3) Islam
4) Traditional Religion
5) Other, Specify ................................................
G.    Number of dependents / household size.



B.     LAND OWNERSHIP, TENURE AND USE
7.     Who owns the land on which you have the affected farm?
1) Myself (bought, gift etc)
2) My parents (father / mother)
3) My marriage partner (husband / wife)
4) Lineage land
5) Non-Relative (specify).......................................................................
6)  Other, specify..................................................................................
8.     If land is not your own property, what arrangements have you made with
the owner of the land for its use?
1) Paid for its use for specified period of time
2) Proceeds to be shared (equally, 1:2, 1:3), please indicate
3) To be used for free
4) No particular arrangement, but owner to be given money or produce
5) The farm to be shared when crops are due for harvest (please indicate terms)
6)  Other, specify.................................................................................
9.     What do you have on the affected land? (Please indicate specific crops)
1) Cash crops
2) Food crops
3) Both 1 & 2
4) Animals (Poultry, Piggery etc)
5) Crops and animals
.6) Building
7)  Other, specify..................................................................................
C.     EMPLOYMENT / PROFESSION
10.    What is your main trained profession?
1) Teaching
2)  Artisan  (specify)...............................................................................
3) Security
4) Farming
5) Engineering (specify)........................................................................
6)  Other, specify..................................................................................
11.    What is your main occupation? (Not necessarily what you are trained for, but what
you actually do)
1) Farming
2) Teaching
3) Carpentry
4) Other public/civil service (specify).......................................................
5) Dressmaking / Tailoring



6) Trading
7)  Other, Specify.................................................................................
12.   Apart from your main occupation what are your other sources of income I
livelihood
13.  If farming is the major occupation hiow many farms do you have apart from
the one affected by the power line extension project
D.    PUBLIC HEALTH
14.   What disease/symptoms usually attack you and / or members of your household
1.    Headache
2.    Fever / Malaria
3.    Body pains
4.    Stomach upset
5. Other, Specify.
15.   What do you think are the causes of these diseaseslill health?
1.    Mosquito
2.    bad drinking Water
3.    not Eating Good food
4.    working / standing on the sun
5. other (specify).
E.    GENERAL COMMENTS ON THE POWER LINE EXTENSION PROJECT
16.   Generally, what do you dislike about the proposed power line extension
project by VRA on your land?
17.   What do you like about the project
18.  In what specific ways do you think that the project is going to affect you
and your family?



iv



SOCIO-CULTURAL AND ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
STUDY FOR VRA'S POWERLINE EXTENSION PROJECT
INSTRUMENT FOR COMMUNITY INFORMATION
1.     a.      What are the main ethnic groups in the community? .
b.     Which are the dominant groups.
2.     a.      Which are the religions in the community'.
b.     Which is / are the most dominant religion(s).
3.     a.      Are there any sites / shrines /objects on the proposed ROW which
are supposed to be points of specific historical reference I handed to the community?
Yes.                   No.
b. What are they .
c.      What specific historical events do they represent.
....................... .................................................................
4.      a.     Do you have any sites I objects you consider very attractive
for tourist attraction on the ROW?
Yes.            No.
b.      Mention the specific sites/scenes.
c.      What makes them attractive?.



5.     Who owns the land in this
community? ........                         ..........................
a.     Customary  ..........................................................................
b.     Reality / leasing / usage
6.     For what purposes is land usually put in this community.
7.     What are the main occupations / sources of employment in the community?
8.     What arc the main agricultural practices in the community?
a. Crops cultivation ..............  b.  Animal husbandry, etc.
c.     For crops cultivation, mention the common crops
d      For animals husbandry mention common animals.
...........................................................................................
9.     Indicate any healthi problems that are common in the community?
10.    What problems do you anticipate that the current project will bring to
members of the community - give reasons.
PROBLEM                                REASON
1.
2.
vi



3.
4.
5.
11     Mention any positive expectations?
12.    Has any organization ever used part of land in your community for similar projects?
Yes.                 No.
13.    a.     What problems did you have with that organisation?
b.     How did the project benefit the people in the Community?
vii






ANNEX 3-6       DETAILED LIST OF AFFECTED PERSONS
REGION      DISTRICT     COMMUNITY       NAMES
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     ALFRED OKYERE DARKO
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     ATTAA GYANKYE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     JAMES ANOKYE BADU
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     JAMES BOAKYE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     MICHAEL DENTEH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     SAMUEL ADU KWAW
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     YAW ATTA
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ABOAGYEKROM     (AKESU) KWESI SEKYERE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           ALEX GYEBI
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           AMA DONKOR
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           CHARLES ARTHUR DARKW
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           DANIEL TEYE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           EDWARD OPPONG
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           EKOUM THOMPSON
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           EKUA GARE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           ELIZABETH AMOAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           ELIZABETH QUANSAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           FRANCIS MANU
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           GEORGE WALTER MASON
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           GODWIN ASANTE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           KOFI BRUCE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           KWABENA GYEGYE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           KWAME ADJEI
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           KWAMEANOBIL
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           KWEKU NYAMEKYE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           KWESI AMOAKO
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           OWUSU NKWANTABISAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           PETER NUAMAN
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           REBECCA NYAME
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           SETH KWAKYE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           YAW KONTOR
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  ADAMSO           YAW PEPRAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  AKAASU           ATTA ALFRED
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  AKAASU            NANA KWEKU AMANKWA
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  AKAASU            OSEI KWABENA
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO            AFUA DANKWA
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO           AKUA FERKUOH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO            NANAAFUA
ASHANTI     ADANSIWEST   FENASO NKWANTA   ABENA POMAA
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   AFUA AMOABENG
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   AKOSUAH MENSIMAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   AKUAADUFIE
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   AKUA TAWIAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   ALEX DONKOR
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   EMMANUEL MENSAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   GEORGINAASSAH
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   JOSEPH BANOR
ASHANTI     ADANSI WEST  FENASO NKWANTA   KWABENA ABOAGYE



REGION      DISTRICT     COMMUNITY      NAMES
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FENASO NKWANTA   KWABENA DOMME
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FENASO NKWANTA   KWABENA GYAN
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FENASO NKWANTA  THERESADONKOR
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FENASO NKWANTA  YAA MANSAH
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FENASO NKWVANTA  YAW ASARE
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FRANCO           KOJO DANIEL
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FRANSO-NKWANTA   AFIA AGYEIWA
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FRANSO-NKWANTA   KOFI OWUSU
ASHANTI    ADANSI WEST   FRANSO-NKWANTA  NANA EDWARD AKOWUAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          ADJOAH BOAMAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          AFIA POMAAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          AKUA ADOMAA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          AKWESI ATTA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          AKWESI NYARKO
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          AMA BRAGO
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          B F. ASANTE
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          ERNEST APPIAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          HANNAH OPPONG
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          J.O. AKWABOAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          JANET ADU
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          K FORDJOUR NO. 1
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          KENNETH ODURO
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          KIJO YINKA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          KWABENA OKYERE
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          KWESI ASARE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA         NANA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA         NIMOAH AMANKWA (MANU
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA         OSCAR GYEBI
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA         PAPA YAW
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA         S K. ANTI
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA          SOLOMON FORDJOUR
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  ADINKRA         YAW TWENEBOAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       ABENA MOSHIE
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO        ADJOA BREMPOMAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO        ADWOA SARFOWAA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO        AKUA DAPAAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO        AKOSUA TAWIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       CHARLES ODURO
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       COMFORT OBENG
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       EFUA FOFIE
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO        JONAS ATTAFAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       KWAKU DANSU
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       KWAME DAPAAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       NANA KWABENA
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO        THEOPHILUS GYEBI
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETIKOKO       YAW BARIMAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETISO          ABENA KYEI
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETISO          ADO MENSAH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETISO          ADU K. JOSEPH
ASHANTI    AMANSIE EAST  APETISO         ADU SARKODIE



REGION      DISTRICT     COMMUNITY      NAMES
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      ADWOA ABIMPEH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      ADWOA BRUWAA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      AFIA BAWIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO       AFUA AKOMAA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      JOSEPH KWAME ADANSE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      JOSEPH OKYERE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      KWAME AFFUM
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      KWEKU ADDAI
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      KWEKU FORDJOUR
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      MARY OBOAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      MARY ADWOA DANMA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      OPANIN K. MANU
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      P.K. FRIMPONG
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      THOMAS SABRIMA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  APETISO      YAW BOADI MENSAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ABRAHAM PEPERAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ABUBAKARI IBRAHIM
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ADWOA DENTAA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ADWOA EMAMFERE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ADWOA KWAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ADWOA MANSAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     AKUA ADDAE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     AKUA ADUUNA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     AKUA AMPONSAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     AKUA KRA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     AKUA MINTM
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     ALEX KWESI BRENYA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     AMA KAYA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     CHARLES QUAINOO
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     FRANCIS TAWIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     GABRIEL OSEI YAW
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     J.KWABENA APPIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     JONES AGYEI
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     JOSEPH APPIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KOFI ADJEI
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KOFI APPIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KOFI OWUSU
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     l<OFI SARE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KOFI YANKEY
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KOJO TAWIAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWABENA BIO
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWABENA MENSAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWADWO ADJEI
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWADWO BOAHENG
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWADWO YASU (CHURCH)
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWAME ADJEA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWAME BANDO
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWAME BOATENG
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWEKU ATTA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWEKU SEKYERE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE     KWESI ADDAE
iii



REGION      DISTRICT     COMMUNITY       NAMES
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      KWESI OWUSU
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      PETER PEPERAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      SAMUEL ABORAAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      THOMAS AHAEFA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      YAA ANTWIWAA
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      YAW ADDAAE
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      YAW AMOAKO
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      YAW GYAMFUAH
ASHANTI     AMANSIE EAST  TWAPEASE      YAW SARFO
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ASIKUMA     JOHN DICKSON NKRUMAH
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ASIKUMA     KWABENAAPPIAHENE
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      ABENA KEKERE
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      AMAAKOMA
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      ATTAAAKOSUA
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      FAUSTINA NKRUMAH
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      JOHN ASANTE
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      KOFIASARE
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      KOFI NYAME
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      KWABENA OBERI
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      KWAMENSOWAH
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      KWEKU BOAKYE
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESMASE      MARTHATINKORANG
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      PETER DONKOR
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      SAMSOM K ADJEI
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      SEIDU ZAKARI
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      WILLIAM AGBOTEY
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      YAW MENSAH
CENTRAL     UPPER DENKYIRA  ESAASE      YAWTSIBU
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      AFUA ANIMA
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      AFUA DUA
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      AFUA POTI
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      AGYA KISSI
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      AKWASI MENSAH
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      EBO HAYFORD
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      GEORGE AMPONG
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      J.Y. ASARE
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      JOHN KWASI KANKAM
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      KOFI ADJEI
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      KOJO KISSI
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      KWADWO BOTWE
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      MATTHEW AMPONG
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      YAA SALA
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG      YAA SALA
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   DARMANG (HIAGO)  KWESI EADJI
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   OPON VALLEY   AFUA SARPONG
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   OPON VALLEY   R.B FOSU
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   OPON VALLEY   SAMUEL APPIAH
WESTERN      WASSAAMENFI    OPON VALLEY   Y Y ASANTE
WESTERN      WASSA AMENFI   OPON VALLEY   YAW APPIAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST    ABEKAKROM      AKOSUA SOMUAH
Iv



REGION       DISTRICT     COMMUNITY        NAMES
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      AKOSUA WAKROTSEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      CHRISTIANA KWARTENG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      EBENEZER ANOKYE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      JOSEPH QUAICOO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      MAAME SAMANPA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      OPANIN KWAME BOATENG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      THOMAS QUAINO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      YAW DOKU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ABEKAKROM      YAW DONKOR
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      ABA YAA SAFOAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      AKWESI ANOKYE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      AMA ABRAFI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      COMFORT NIMO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      EMMANUEL ADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      EVANS APPEADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      JOSEPH ANOKYE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM       KOJO OWUSU DICKSON
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM       KWABENA AMPRATWUM
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM       KWABENA SARFO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM       KWAME ASMANE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ADADEKROM      WILLIAM ADAMPTEY
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ASANTE AYE     AKWA BADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ASANTE AYE     J.K MENSAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ASANTEAYE      KOJO PEPERAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ASANTEAYE      KWEKU DUA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ASANTE AYE     ROBERT ASAMOAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     ASANTE AYE     SAAH EDWARD
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM     ABENA FOSUAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM     AFUA NKRUMAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      AKUASI ADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      BISMARK GYEDU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      FELECIA DEDE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      KOFI AGYESOUH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      KWABENA ASARE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      KWAME GYETUAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      YAW MENSAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      YAW OFORI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM      YAW SEKERE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM N01    AKWESI GYENIN
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     AYENSUKROM N01    KWAME AKWATIABA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       ABOAGYE DA COSTA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       ADWOA FORDJOUR
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       ADWOA FORDJOUR
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       ADWOWA SERWA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       AFUAANIMA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       AFUA BOATEMAA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       AGARTHA MENSAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       AMA NIMO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       CHARLES BONNAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       EMELIA ABANA NYARKO



REGION       DISTRICT     COMMUNITY       NAMES
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       EMMANUEL AMOABENG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       EMMANUEL WIELDERMAN
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       ERIC A
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       ESI AMPOMAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       JOHN APPEADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       JOSEPH ASIRIYI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KOFI ADJEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KOFI ATTA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KOFI BADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KOFI NUAKO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KOJO ASANTE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KOJO SEIDU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWABENA AHOMAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWABENA ATTOBRAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWABENA OPPONG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWABENA OWUSU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWAKU OPPONG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWAME BOADI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWAME BOADI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWEKU DARKWAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWESI ANING ADJEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWESI ASSIMAN
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       KWESI GAYI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       MADAM AGBOAGYEWAA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       TAWIAH CHAMOTEY
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       THOMAS NKRABEAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       W.K OWUSU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       YAW ADJEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       YAW ADJEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     DARMANG       YORKE AMOAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     GYIMAKROM
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     GYIMAKROM      J.K ASHUN
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     INSU       AMA ATTAA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     INSU       ANOKYE
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     INSU       JOHN ASSAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST    INSU        KWADWO OTUAKWA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     INSU       MR. COBBINA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       AKOSUA ADDA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       C.K NYAME
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       C K NYAME
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       EMMANUEL AGYEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       KOFI ACHEAMPONG
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       KOFI NTI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       KWADWO BADU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       MADAM AKUA AYAMFUAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       MR. BREYEA
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       NANA KWABENA ADJEI
WESTERN      WASSA WEST   . PEMESO       OBIRI YEBOAH
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       ODURO
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       OPANIN GYEBI KWAKU
WESTERN      WASSA WEST     PEMESO       SAMUEL DOUDU
vi



Aniicx 3-7       SOCIO-ECONOM IC/CULTURAL IMIPACTS - SURVEY FIND)INGS
Thc finidinigs of the 1icld survcy arc discussed in tIhis scctioni undcr the followinig hicadings and issucs:
Al'fcctcd( Coiiuiiuiiitics
*   Affcctcd Rcgions
*   Affecctcd Districts
Etlhnic Cultural anid Dcemographic Issucs
*   Ethnic Groups
Agc of Affcctcd Pcrsonis by Gcndcr
uJumbcr of Dcpcndcnts
* Rcligious Groupings
Lanid Tlcnu c, Owiicrsiliip, and Use (Agriculltu c)
*   Land Owncr-siip, Tcrnurc and Usc
   Arrangcmilcnits for Land Usc
*   Tcirs and Agrccmcint for Land Usc
P Property on Affecctcd Land
lin 11ploymelit Issues
Main Occupations of Affcctcd Pcrsons
l'ublic Health
*   I-Icaltlh Issucs
Special Conicernl s
*   F:cars of Rcsponideints
*   Expcclations of Affcctcd Commiiiiunitics
1.0   AFFECTED ItEGIONS
lu all, 3 ICgion1s have bccn affcctcd by the powcr linc cxtcnisioil project, nalcly, Asaliti, Ccililnal and Wcsicitn
Rcgions, T-ablc 111 bclow. Ol the 303 pcrsons in tIc thi cc regions who claim to have bcen allccicd by the project
tlcrc arc mlorc fiom] the Ashanti rcgion (52.5%) than thlc Iwo olltcr regions. It is lollowed by Wcstcln ICLgion
(40.9%) with Ccnital rcgion (6.6%) havinig tlic Icast numiibcr of affectcd persons.
Regioni        No. of Affcctcd         I'erccntagc
Pcrsolls
Ashlianti               159                   52.5
CcIltral                 20                    6.6
Westcerni               124               _   40.9
Total                   303                  100.0
T;ablc Ii 1: Affccted Rcgioins
2.0   A FFECTED DIS'IRItICIS
Five districts in Ithc tIrcc regions wcrc recordcd to liavc bcen alfecced by the projcct in tabic II 3 below. Tlhcsc aec
Adansi \Vcst anid Amransic East in Ashlianti region; Upper Dcinkyrra in Ccntial rcgioni and Wassa Arnaniii anid Wassa
\Vcst ill Westerni lRcgion.



DiStrict            No. of Affected       IPrcnCItagC
Plersonis
Adansi West                       52                 17.2
Amnansic East                    107                 35.3
U pcr Dcnkyira                    20                  6.6
Wassa Amanri                     21                   6.9
Wassa West                       103                 34.0
'rotal                           303               100.0
Tablc #2: Affccted Districts
Tlic most affcctcd districts according to tilc data arc Amanisic East (3.7%) and Wassa Wcst (34.0%). Adaiisi Wcst
follows witli 17.2% of tilc total affcctcd pcrsons. A rclativcly significanil pcrciitage of affcctcd persons comic froml
Uppcr Dcinkyira (6.6%) and Wassa Amanifi (6.9%) districts. /Iiiuiev 3-8Y prcscnts a dctailcd list of alzcetcd persons
and t lcir coin in n iiitics.
3.0     AGE OF AFFECTED P'ERtSONS BY GENDERt
T'lic majority ol'tihc alfcctcd persons arc in thc agcs of'45 ycars and bclow as shown in Tablc /I 3 below. 'I'hcy
constitutc 56.5% or thc total numiibcr of affcctcd persons. I-lowever, tlic conccintraltionl is betwcen 26 ycias to 55
ycars. Tlicrc is also a substantial proportion of agcd that is (56) an(i abovc, (25.1%) amonlg thi affcctcd pcisons.
AGE                  MALE                   FEMMA, E                  TI'O'ITAL
No.                      No.          %/,         No.         0/1,
25 and bclow           19          8.9          2           2.3         21          7.0
26-35                  51         23.9         20          23.3         71         23.7
36 - 45                50         23.5         27          31.4         77         25 8
46-55                  41         19.2          14          16.3         55         18.4
56-65                  30         14.1          14         16.3         44          14.7
66                     22         10.3           9         10.5         31          10.4
total                 213       100.0          86         100.0       299        I(,.0
'Fablc 1/3: Age of Affcctcd lPcrsonis by Gcnder
In tcirs of scx distiibitioni miorc mialcs (71.2%) thiani fcmales (2S.8%) are all'ccted. Additionalily, miorc youngcr
mialcs - 35 years and below (32.9%) thianl feimalcs (25.6%) ac affecctcd. TIhlc scx diffcrcincc for tile agcd is iiot vcry
Significant. but, rclativcly, thcrc arc mor-c fceialc aged than iales. In addition, thicrc arc iioir l'cumales (71%) in thc
ages ol'concciltilrtioni (26-55 years) thlan imales (66.6%).
Conisidcring tt ia the most afIfccted agc group is 415 years and below, tilcsc arc persons who arc likely to 11JvC
iclatiLvely youinigcr l-uniilics to cdrc for. As such, the project aflicts thcir sources ol'incomilc, cntiie liimiily livcliioods
and othelr social comiliiitiiciits.
Anotiler important i1pact to considcr has to do witl tilc agcd. Tlicy arc personis whiosc hcalthi will not perIlit tliciii
to cngagc iin any activc cconomiiic activities for survival. 'IThis mealins thiat failurc to compcnisatc the aged adcquatcly
and carly xvill ncgaltively affect tilcir livclihood.
4.0      E'l'IINIC GROUI'S
Tlhc cthliic comlipositioni of thc affecctd persons shows tilat a multi-ctihnic coml)osition exists for thc various afel'cCtel
districts Tabic /14 below. Tlic implicationl here is that thicrc arc people wlio have mligratcd from tileir oiigimial
localitics cilticr to woik in tilc affectcd areas or for othcr social icasons.
[I



Ethinic Group          No. of Pcrsons          PerccintagC
Ashanli                        198                 65.3
Ewc                              3                  1.0
Fantl                           36                 11.9
Wassa                           49                 16.2
Nzcina                           1                  0.3
Northcrn                         4                   1.3
Kwanlw / Aktapimil               6                  2 0
Ga / Adamiibgc                   6                  2 0
Total                          303              100.0o
'I rble f14: Efliamic Groups
TIakinig tilc arTcctcd rcgionis for cxamplc, and tlIc 1)rcscncc or pcopic witl Nortilcrn, Akwapini and Ga / Adangbc
cthiuic backgrounids shows liow diffcrcnt pcopic liavc comc to scttic and farni In thc alTcCtcd arcas. TIhis Incans that
thc projcct tlrcatcins thlc continLuous livclihood of iigraints wlio liavc investcd In tIc arfcctcd collllliulitlics.
Lvci amolig thIc pcoplc ol Iw aCiffcCtcd rcgions ilic rcvclation is that Icsscr pcrsons wcrc rccordcd in thcir rco.j,cilvc
rcgions (Tabic I) than thicir cthnic rcprcscntationis In litc total population covcrcd (Tablc 4). 1i lis iiplies that ilacic
is iltcr rcgional migration amonlg ilic cffcctcd rcgions isually for cconomilic rcasons.
5.0     NUIMBIR 01 DEI'ENDANTS
'lThc majority of the rcsponidcnits (68.3%), tablc 11 6 below bavc a numbcr of dcpcndants from 4 to 9 pcrsons wilth
dcpcndcnts or bctwccn 7 and 9 (36.7%) bcing thc most common. About 2 out of cvcry 10, (18.4%) rcspondcnts
liavc a numbcrordcpcndants orbctwccn 10 and 18 pcrsons. A few of ticiii (1.3%) bavc 19 or moic depcindants In
all, thc dcpcndcnicy ratio is about 15 depcadants to I affcctcd pcrson.
Wilt such a hIngh dcpciidcicy ratio among thc affcctcd commilunities the iiimpact of tiic project oin ramiic ie/
houscliolds and the ciltirc comiluiLics will bc grcatly fcit if appropriatc mcasurcs arc not put in place bcfoic
impicmcniation or tiic projcct.
No. of         No. or Afrected lPcisouis   I elecucc:agc
0                       3                   1.0
I -3                    29                   99
4-6                     93                   3J 6
7 - 9                  I08                   36.7
10-12                    40                   13 6
13- 15                   13                   4.4
IG- 18                    4                    14
19 - 21                    1                  0.3
22- 24                    3                    I 0
1Ioi.1I                294                100 0
Tabic 115: Numiber or Dcpendants
6.0     REILIGIOUS GRtOUPlINGS
rhc projcct IS nol cxpccicd to liavc any significanit impact on rchigious practicc. lhc situationi would havc been
difrcrcnLt if morc alfeccicd licrons had becn belicvcrs of Traditional rcligion, Table ll6 bclow. This is becausc Ill
tradilional rcligion domilialcd communitics it would hiavc becn likely to find morc shrinics on the lRoW Ilhanl Itose
dominiiatcd by othicr icligions.



.tcligioni            No. of          Perccait:igc
rliso us
No religion                    22                 7.3
Christianiity                  265               S7.5
Islam                            9                3.0
Tlradilional rcligion            7                2.3
Total                          303            100.0
TIablc 116: IRcligious Groupinigs
7.0     LAND OWNERSHIP, TENURE AND USE
7.1     Customa:iry [Land Owneiship
Soinc respondents wcrc abic to indicatc traditionial stools uilder %Nhich Ilicir couilinuiiics iall. In all, I I traditiolial
stools / arcas wcre indicatcd in tabic Il S bclow.
Collullinily         Traditional Stool / Coulncil
Adadeckrom                  Ucenso
Adinkr-a                    Dwcbircso
Opoll Valley                Akropong
Aboagyckroini               Akrokcrri
Asikuma                     Denkyima
AsaMinc Aye                 Abcka
Abckakrom                   Bcnso
Apilikooko                  Domupoasc
I-ti ago                    Oppong Vallcy
Adaniso                     Akrokcrri
Aycnisukroill               Bosomtwc
Nmi Sidinc                  D.armang
Pcmcso                      Darmianig
TabIc l17: Coiiiiuniiics and Traditioiial Stool/
Cou licil
7.2     Owtici-ship or Afrectcd lariii Lands
A substanltiail proportion (48.2%) of thc farmlis allectcd bclong to respondcints who wcrc intcrviewcd, table ll 9
bclo%v. It is followcd in order of mcrit by tliosc wlio larml o  parents laind (20.8%) aild that of spouscs' (5.3%).
Although tIic issuiC of disputes and misundeistanding cannot bc totally rulcd out bctwcci ItIC land uscrs and ow\lcis
lor the tir-ce catcgolics of pCIsons on compensation for propertics on tlihc land, it is expected to be %'cry nuiinil
compared to tlic  ainiing categories of land owncis and USCerS.
Ow ilers!,Ip           No. ofr ll'esons       Pelcen;tagc
Mysclf(boughl, gift)                146                  48.2
Parents                              63                  20.S
Marriagc Paitniler                   16                   5.3
L.inicagc / familily                1I                    5 0
Noo - relative                        8                   2.6
l.Cased                               6                   2 0
liend                                I4                   4.6
S,lli,, _                            9                    3 0
Uncle / Aunt                         II                   3 6
Grand l'aicuit                       12                   4.0
CGovcelrniiclil                       I                   0 3



Olvilernlil)           No. of Plcrsons       IPcrceinta'gc
Clhicf                                1                  0.3
Cliurch                                               = 0.3
T olal                             303                   100
labIlc /18: Land TI cnuruc Sysicin
7.3     A1R1RANGEMENTS FOR LAND USE
Elvidcntly, thosc whio own tlicir lands (48.2%) hlavc no arrangcmcnis for the use ol hllcir lands, table 1 10 below. FIor
son1ic rcspondctnts, thc lands wcrc givcn to thcimi by the landlords to bc uscd fiecly (24.4%). For othcrs, although lduid
is inot frcc of ciargc, no spccific arrangciticits lhavc bccn madc bctwccn landlords and land uscrs (4.6%). Ak fcw ol
the rcspondciits have to sharc ilic farm with their landlords wiecn ihc crops arc duc for harvest whilc quite a niumber
ofl ici havc to'share tihc procceds (17.20%) after harvcsting and scilinig the crops.
Arrangemeint               No. of l'crsons      I'crcentagc
IProcccds to bc shared                      52                17.2
l'o hc uscd frce                            74                24.4
No particuilar arrangcmcnl                  14                 4.6
Farm to be shared                            8                  2.6
Own Land                                    146               48.2
No Response                                  9                  3.0
l'otal                                     303                100.0
Table 119: Arrangement for Land Usc
'Ilius, for a proportioni of thc respondents who sharc farm proceeds and for ithose with no particular arianigcicmlet,
disputes and conillicts arc likcly to arisc ovcr coipnilsation if it is not adminisicird appropriatcly.
7.4     TERMS OF AGIRLEVIMENTI IFOR LAND USL
For ilic various agcnicmnt tcrimis miadc lor land use, cqual share of output (68.3%) fromii farns is tlc niost popular;
TIable /110 bclow. Trhis is lollowed by a shar-ing output into 3 wvith I shiarc going to one party and 2 shiaics to anothcr
plarty.
Agreciiciit         No. of 1Personis   Pcrccilntge
I,qual sliarc of farimi     41               68.3
1.2                         1 2              20.0
1.3                        7                 1 1.7
Total                       60                100.0
Table 1110: TIcrimis of Ag r ccimciit for Land Use
7.5     PROPERTY ON AFFECITED LAND
Reslio;ndcis whio have botli cashi crops and food crops on the lRoW constittitc the largest of the total all;lcictl
persons as shown in Iablc 1/11 below. Generalily, lfirm crops will bc the most affcctcd piopcrty by tlhc proposed
power liic cxtcinsion plrojcct.
Propely             No. of P'ersonis   Percentage
Cash crol) only                     96               31.7
Food cron onily                     65              21.4
Casl crop & food crop_             128              42.2
Fruits                               6                2.0
Animalls
(ploltly y  l)iggcry)                 I               0.3
V



Property              No. of 1'crsolns     Percclnlagc
LBuilding                               4                1.3
No Rcsponse                             3                 1.0
Total                                 303             1(0 0
Tabicl l1I: Paropcrty onj Affcctcd Land
Thc coImmO1on1 crops on ilic land arc cocoa, oil palm, oranigcs, pincappIc, cassava, )lanitaii, ricc, illaiLc and toinj.t1ocs.
8.0     MAIN OCCUI'ATIONS OF AFFEC-t'ED I0EtSONS
1hc afl'cctcd persons as sliowin in Tablc 1112 bclow, arc picdonmiinantly earmers (93.1%). Wlhcn askcd wlictlict
rcspondcnits lhad becii trained in specific profcssions and had only i csortcd to fairinlg, the majority (70%) rcspondcd
in thlc ncgativc, with the rcinaining 30% sprcading ovcr abouLt 26 d;fferent prolcssionis.
I'rofcssioi                 No. of             Icrccitagec
Prcrsolis
Tcaclung                                   5       _           1.6
Artisani / carpenter, mleclhanics,
tailor / scamsircss ctc.                    5                  1.6
Farminu                                  282                  93.1
Trading                                    3                   1.0
Olhcr Puiblic officials                    4                   1.3
I'astoral                                  i                   0.3
Driviig                                    I                   0.7
Mlinilg                                    2                   0.3
TIotal                                   303                   100
Table 1t 12: Mami Occupation of Affccted Persons
About 69u'o ol' the resl)ondents liavc no olihcr source of inicoimc. 'IThiis mlcanis that tlhc impact of thc p) oject onl the
people through dcstructioni ol farimi produce can bc vcry significant
9.0     IIEAL'l-I ISSUES
Discascs/syiptomis of ill health it all tlch affccted districts follow a simiilar pattern, table 1/14 bclow. Malaria / I'cvc-
(61.2%) is thc miost comlmloni disease in all tIic districts followcd by body painis (16.2%) anid hcadachies (12.6/o).
Stoilmacli upset (I 0.0%) is also sigii ficaiut in alimiost all the districts particularly Wassa \Vcst (1 1.5%), Aniialsic L.ast
( l0.3%!/o) anid Ada.nsi West (6.5%).
t)is ease   Ad ailsi     wassa       Amin a nsic    Amil:l asic    1J p pc1      NVassa     Tl otal
or         Nvcst      Ainia,fi       East          W'cst       I)I Dn1kyira    NVcS(
Symptom(11      %            %            %             %              %            %/1
I Icadaclic    16.1         1 2.5        12.7            -            10.5         1 1.5      12.6
Fcvcr /        66.1        62.5          58.7          60.0          63.1          60.8       61.2
Malaria
Body           1 1.3       18.6          18.2            -           21.0          16.2       16.2
Pains
Stomliach       6.5         6.3          10.3          40.0           5.3          1 1.5      10.0
Total           62           16          126            5              19          130        358
TIable t13: Coiiiioii Diseases in Affected Coinniunities by Distr-ict
(r cspoldelits gave IIloI-c (tla:,i oic respoInse)
VI



10.0   IFEARIS OF IRESIPONDENTI S
lRcsponedciits expressed tlicir fcars about tllc proposcd projcct as prcseiitcd in Table/I 14 bclo%v. A significanlt numlibe
(59.4%) fcar that tlcir maiin source of iniconc will bc dcstroycd.
Fcar                        No. of l crsolus   Pcreciitatc
Dcstrictioni of farim crops       I 80              59.4
(source of inicomc)
Dclays in paymcilt of             76                25.1
compcnsaLion_
Inadequate compensation           30                9.9
DestrutelioIn of buildiiigs       4                 1.3
Scizing land compulsorily         13                4.3
(unctltivatcd land) for
lRoW without
comrpcnsation
Total                             303               100.0
1Tatlc 114: iFe:c u s or ictsponidcii is
The fears expressed by mnost of the rcspondcnts selm from bcing denied access to dheir only source ol incomile
(59.4O/). In addition, thrc arc Iears that tilc disburscilcint ofcompcnsation ftunids will take a lonig timiie.
Ohlicr fcars expresscd coniccrn tlc inadcquacy of compensation comimnicisiriatc with damagcd crops, (9.9%) and
lands that will not be compcisatcd for bccausc tilcrc are no crops/propcrty oni theni. Accordinig to lihe respondinits
such lands lor thc Ro\V will be takcin loicvcr witli nootiiing being p.,id to the owncrs.
11.0      I EIECTATIONS OF AFFECTED COMM UNITIE,
The miajority of the respondents (57.1 %), Tabic 1#15 bclow, cxpcct tiat once thcir farms arc carimarkcd for ilic Io%vcr
linc exicitsioni project tlicir miaini source of incomile is goilng to bc dcstroycd. I-lowcvcr, somc of thlcm] expect that
tlcy will bc adeulatcly compensatcd.
It is notcwortlly thal respondeints rclatc the project directly with job crcation (18.8%) anid tlhc gcencral socio-
cconoimic development (6.9%) of tlicir coimimuniiics. Otlicrs, (5.3%) expect that sinicc the projcct conces powc
their couniuiiniitics arc going to bcncfit litoii clcciricity supply.
Expcclatioui /          No. of              PcIcelit:ige
Inidiic:ator        lPc,-soais
Auract invcstors anmd         21                    6.9
bring dcvelopmcnt
Crcate job avcnucs anid      57                    I 8.8
improve livinig
standamrds
Adequate comnpensation        32                    10.6
Ior destroycd crops /
pmroprty
Brinig clcctiicity to tlic     16                    5.3
al ca
Destroy tlhc only sot0ce    173                     57.1
of ilicolIlC
No cxpeclaftion                 4                     1.3
Total                         303                   100.0
Tablc 1115: Expeetafions of Afleced Coiniittitziics
VI]






Annex 4
* Chemicals Data
e IEMF Research






Annxic. 4-2
1 LT                 INTERNATIONAL LABEL TEXT
All country-specific regulations must be observed.
The text in bold letters is the minimum that must appear on country-specific labels.
The text in normal letters should appear on the accompanying package leaflet
when insufficient space prevents its inclusion on the label.
FolarO525 FW                                             (A-751r1)
Pack size:
Flowable
Herbicide
for broadspectrum annual weed control in tropical plantation- crops
such as rubber, coffee, oilpalms, cacao and bananas.
Active ingredient content
180 g /liter glypilosate t
345 g / liter terbuthylazine **
*    N(phosphonomethyl) glycine in form of the
isopropylamine salt
* *  2-tert. butylamino-4-chloro-6-ethylamino-s-triazine
Antidote
No specific antidote is known. Apply symptoniatic therapy.
WHO class: no classification (unlikely to present hazard)
Non-flammable
Note. Registration number and pack size must appear on dil local labels.
For more information on the directions for use, refer to the Product Profile.
For more information on the safety aspect, refer to the corresponding PSI
lea flet.
Ihis ILT serves as a basis for locai label texts.
- 13-



FOLAR 525. FW has two active components:         Crop;.       rubber, oilpafms, cocoa, coffee. bananas
- glyphosate is absorbed by the foliage and it is  Timing of  post-emergence to 10 - 30 cm high
translocated through treated plants            application:  weeds
- terbuthylazine is taken up by the rooLs of weeds. Leaf  Rate.  4 1itres I ha
uptake is weak.                                Remarks:     o Using FOLAR 525 FW    in shaded
conditions will generally improve the
weed control.
Spectrum    of Activity                                       e FOLAR 525 FW should preferably be
used during the phase of active,
FOLAR 525 FW is active against a wide range of annual           vegetative weed growth.
grasses, annual broadleaved weeds and some perennial          a No rain should occur within two hours
grasses:                                                         of application.
Monocuts               Dicots                                a Slashing larger than 30 cm higih weeds
prior to the application of FOLAR 525
Axonopus compressus    Achyranthera aspera                     FW will result in an improved control,
Commlina africana      Ageratum spp.                           provided they have been allowed to
Cornmelina benghalerisis  Alternanthera spp.                   regrow to the recommended stage for
Digitaria 5pp.         Amaranthus spp.                         treatment.
Eleus,ne afr,cana      Asystasia gangelica
Ischiaemum rugosum     Borreria latifolia                    9 Use a separate contact or translocated
Ottochloa nodosa       Calopogonium mucunoides                 herbicide for controlling spots /
Panicum s              Centrosempa pubescen                    patches of perennial weeds.
Paspalurn spp.         Cnrsm      uecn
Rottbocli/a exallata   Chromolacna odorata
Setaria spp            (= Eupatorium odoraturn)  Compdtibility
Croton hirtus
Dissotisrotundifol,a     FOLAR 525 FW should not be tankmixed with other
Ipomoca spp.             herbicides commonly used in tropical plantations.
Phyllanthus nirur,
Puerariajavanica
Pueraria phaseoloides
Sida rhombifolia         Application Technique
Sida urens
Urera repens             Equmpnient
FOLAR 525 FW can be applied with any ground
application equipment
Limitations                                       Ensure that spray-tanks are made of stainless steel,
FOLAR 525 FW does not provide a consistent control of  fibreglass or plastic.
ferns, Hard-to-kill perennial grasses and perennial  For high volume applications use tractor mounted
broadleaved weeds may only be initially suppressed.  sprayers equipped with flat fan nozzle tips or knapsack
sprayerswith flood jet nozzles
Where ring- or strip-weeding is practised, FOLAR 525  For low volume applications, use special equipment such
FW does not prevent the treated area from being re-  as 'Birky' or 'Herbi" together with the approprnite
invade J by creepirg weeds which are rooting outside  nozzle.
the treated area.                                 Make sure that the spray equipimient is properly
calibrated.
Clean sprayers thoroughly, immediately after use by
Crop lole r.ince                                  flushing wvitl clean water.
FOLAIR 5;25 FW is well tolerated by tropical crops such as
rubber (HLeve bras.), oil paIms (Elacis guincensis), cocoa
(ThCor)ro,na  acJo), coffee (Coffea arabica, Coftea  Mixing
canephora) and bananas (Mu.a sapientumn, M        Half fill the spray-tank with water, then pour the
paradisiaca).                                     required quantity of FOLAR 525 FW into t(ie tank. Top
in order io avoid crop infury, an appropriate application  up with water to Lhe final volume required iProvide
techlnlque nmust be chosen which prevents lower  sufficient agitation during filling and spraying.
brand(ies ind leaves from being oversprayed witl  operation When using low-volurne equipmelt, observe
FOLtAR 525 FW                                     respective handling recommendations.
Do not premix in buik. Mix each spray batch freshly
Apply within a few hours.
4 ja



. Volume of spray liquid per ha                     Store away from sun and damp in a well ventilated area
apart from food and feed under lock and key.
* high volume technique, conventional volume range Avoid storage below -10 °C and above 35 DC,
(if volumes > 200 litres / ha are used, add 0.5 litre /
ha of non-ionic surfactant)
-  low volume technique: 20 litres / ha to 40 litres / ha,  Shelf life
depending on type of equipment used.
tropical climate:  2 years ) from date of shiprnent
ex-works, in original
temperate climate: 3 years ) unopened containers
Safety Aspects
Note:
Precautionary measures
Keep out of reach of children and other, unauthorized  For rnore information on the safety aspect, refer to the
persons.                                           corresponding PSI leailet.
Operator safety
Avoid getting product in contact with skin, eyes or  Lega/A     -t
clothing. Do not inhale vapour or spray rnist. Wash  e      specLs
hands and face before eating, drinking or smoking. If
indisposition occurs, stop work immediately and apply  Before applying the product read the attached package
first aid measures.                                leaflet.
Wear protective clolhing, i.e. overalls, that or cap, solid
footwear and impermeable gloves. Wash off splashes of
concentrate and spray. mixture. After work wash entire  User's RiAk
body. Clean protective equipment before re-use.    The user bears the risk for damage resulting from factors
beyond the manufacturer's control.
Env,ron:ncnt and wildlife                          The manufacturer declines all liabilily for domnage
resulting from improper storage or use of the product
Do not contaminate water used for irrigation or
domestic purposes, or flowing or stagnant waters by the
disposal of product wastes.
ihe product is toxic to certain specie5 of fisht.      registered trademark of CI1UA-GEIGY Ltd  Basle.
Switzerland.
Product and container disposal                     Manufacturer: CIDA-GEIGY
Dispose of surplus product on a landfill-site approved
for pesticides or bury in a safe place away from water
supplies. Dilute surplus application mixture, pour it
broadcast on fallow land. Dispose of plastic containers
on a landfill-site or burn in a safe place. For drums take
re-cycling into account, otherwise crush and bury. Do  AG 6.G
not re-use empty containers for any other purpose.  7/1988
Note: Always comply with local legal requirements.
,pillage and leakage
Reniove heavily contaminated soil layer and bury in a
safe place away from water supplies. Collect up spilt
material thoroughly and bury in a safe place or put It in
a waste bin or a plastic bag and dispose of on a londfill-
site approved for pesticides. Rinse spill area with plenty
of water
Notc: Spilt pioduct must not be re-used.



Anniex 4-3 - EMI Mcdical Research
Anincx 4-3: The hlistor-y of rescalchl into EMF anid cancer.
As far back as 1972 tllc UK Ccntral Electricity Gcnirating Board put its first mcmlbcr of rcscarcl
stalf lo work Oil nlhc EME issuc. I-lowcvcr, thc study wlicil caLalysed tllc wide sprcad opinioln
ilat it is dangcrous to livc ncar electrical power lincs was conductcd in 1979 by Dr. Nancy
Wcrthicincr and hci- assistant Ed Lccpcr in Dcnver, Colorado. The study indicated that chlildrcn
wvhlo livc ncar power lines hiad a twicc niormial incideince ol Icukacumial. Tilc hypotliesiscd causc
was exposure to tilc extremely low      fiequcncy miaginetic Fields genierated by the curieill in
I)owcl lilles.
Since thle 1979 publication, somc studics hiave rcported that chiliddicil living ncar- ccrtaini typcs of'
power lincs (lligh currcnl distribution lincs and hlighi-voltagc tranisimiissioni lincs) hiave highicr tilan
avcrage rates of IcuLkaciimia, braini canccis and/or ovcrall cancer (scc Tablc 1).
Tablc 1: Studies th;at have ricportcd a link betwvccn ccrtain typcs of poWci- liis and hiigler thi avelrage rat(cs
of IcuiacImia (L), brain caiiccCs (BC) and/or oV-cali cancCr (OC).
Study                                                                L     BC    OC
N Wcrthicinicr and E Lcclpc: Elccti cal wiring configurationis and clhildlhood
canccr. Amii J Epi(lcidc  109:273-284, 1979.
DA Savit. ct al: Casc-control study of childhood caniccr anid cxposUIc to 60-liz  /  /
magilctic rields. Amn.1 Epidcnm 128:21-38, 1988.
SJ London ct al: Lxposurc to rcsideintial cicctric anid maginctic fields and risk of /
chiildlhood Icukcmiia. Am J Epidcm 134:923-937, 1991.
M Fcychtlitng anld A Alilbom: Maginetic ficlds and canccr in childrcn rcsidilng  /
near Swcdisli luigil-voltagc lowcr Li ncs. Amn J Epidcmn 7:467-481, 1993.
LM Grccn, AB Millcr ct al: Childlhood Icukcmia and personal monlitorinig of  /
rcsidcntial cxposurcs to clcciric and mlaginctic ficids in Ontario, Canada. Calicer
Causes Conuol 10:233-243, 1999.
L Fomcniius: 50-1-1I clectromagrictic ciivironimcnt and thc imicidcilcc of       /
cihildlhood tumors in Stocklholm Counly. Biocicctromiag 7:191-207, 1986.
Jl I Olsco et al: Rcsidcncc ncar high voltagc facilitics and risk of cancer in   /
chiildrcn. 13MJ 307.891-895, 1993.
Ihlic probiclis wiltl tlhCsC studies is that thle coriclationis arc not strong, and the stidies have
gencially nlot showni a trackable rclatiolshlip) bctwccn lcvcl of cxposurc and level of risk (a dose
rcsponsc curvc). Manly Of tIhC studies usc wirinig conlfigurations as a proxy for EMF lcvcls and
wicil thlc clectro-magnetic fields arc actually mcasuied, the association genecially vanishes.
Othcr stuLdics have sIhown no coreIlation betweeni rcsidence ncar power lincs anid risks ol
chilldlhood ICuLIkaemlia, brainii canlccis and/or overall canccr (sec TIablc 2).
1 Wcrlicimcr N. and Lccpcr E. (1979) Elcctrical wviring configgUraLions and childlhood canccr. Iielican l.oturnal of
Epirlemaiology 109, 1P1. 273-284.



Tablc 2:   Siudics Ihat liavc shiowrn nio corrclation betwecn ccrtain tylpcs of power linics and higltcr thln
avcr-agc riatcs of Icukciania (L), brain canccr s (BC) and/or ovcrall cancer (OC).
Study                                                               1L       BC    OC
iJ l ulton ct al: Elccitical wiring configurations and childlhood Icukcmia in  /
Rhode Island. Am J Epiidmcti 111:292-296, 1980.
L Tomilnius: 50-Hz clcctromiiagnctic cnviromincnt and tilc inlcidcncc of  /  /
childlhood tumors itn Slockliolmii Countly. Biocicctromag 7:1 91-207, 1986.       _
MP Coleman cL al: Lcukcmia and rcsidcncc ncar clcicriciLy t-ansillissiol     /
equipment: a case-conitrol study. 13r J Canccr 60:793-798, 1989.                  _
A Mycrs ct al: Childhood canccr and ovcrhcad powcrlincs: a casc-conitol
sittly. 13rJ Canccr 62:1008-1014, 1990.
I'J Vcrkasalo cl al: Risk ofcanccr in 1:inlnish childrcn living closc to power  /  v' 
lincs. IJMJ 307:895-899, 1993.
JI- Olsen el al: Residcncc ncar high voliagc facilitics and risk of canccr in  _    _
clhildirin. BMJ 307:891-895, 1993.
T Tynics cl al: Elcc1romagnctic ficids and canccr in childrcii rcsiding ncar  /  /  /
Norwcgian highi-voltagc power lincs. A mcr J Epide1m 145:219-226, 1997.  -
MS Linct ct al: Residcienial C.posurc to imagnctic riclds and acutc lyilplolasltic  /
Icukcimia in cihildrcn. New Elng J Mcd 337:1-7, 1997.
ML McBridc, RP Gallaghcr ct al: Powcr-frequency cicctric and maglnctic ficlds  _
and risk ofcchildlhood Icukcimia in Canada. Amer J Epidem 149:831-842. 1999.
LM Grccn, AD Miller cl al: A casc-control study of clhildhood lcukcmia in  *
souhlierii Onlario, Canada, and exposurc to maginctic fields in rcsidcnccs. ilt J
Cancer 82:161-1 70, 1999.
JD Ddcklcrty, JM Elwood ct al: Elcctromiiagntcic ficld cxposurcs and chlildllood
Ictikacuiaii} in Ncw Zenaland. Lancet 354:1967, 1999.
J Dockcrty, JM Elvood cl al: Elcctromlagnictic field cxposurcs and chiidhood
cancers in New Zcaland. Cancer Causcs Conlrol 9:299-309, 1998.
N l:cychling and A Ahlbonm: Magnctic ficlds and canccr in chiildrcn residilig  _  
ncar Swedish high-voltage Power Lines. A_ii J _Epiclci 7:467-4X1, 1993.  _   _          |
JG Gurncy cl al: Childlhood brain Itiuimor occurrence in rclationi to rcsidcintial  /
lxvcr linic coifiguraliois, electric heaLing sourccs, and clcciric appliance uSC.
Amicr J Epidem 143:120-128, 1996.                                               _    _
S Plcs5on1-Marltill ct al: Los Aniecls study of rcsidcntial miaginctic lieIds and
childllhoo(d brain tluiors. Amcr J Epidcm 143:105-119, 1996.
I Tyyics ct al: Elcciromilagntcic fields anid canccr in clhildrcn rcsiding icar  /  /
Nornvcgian higil-vciCa'c powvcr liies. AmcrJ Epidcn1 145:219-226. 1997.
All biut OllC Of t11C ICCCIlt Studics of citlci ciildlhood ILeukaemia or biraini canccr have l.ailed to
shlowv signilicanit associations. Teli exceptioll is a Canadiazn study, whiCh showcd somile stalistical
associationl bctwccil the incideilce of cihildhood lcukaeriia and sonie mcasuics or cxposure.
AlthIouLgl the lcead aulioth Lois Grccnil lcrsei said, "...thiis study does niot establishi tliat magnetic
rields cause cancer.2"  Eleven out of' tllirtccn sLIdiCs of adull cance  and residenice ncar power
[inCs hiave fouLld no Corl-Clatioll.
Tihc ICYcI of evideice was puLt to thc tcst in 1995 wlhcn a writ scrvcd on a Britisli clcctricity
company alleged Ilthat a clhild's lcukaCmia was Catuscd by CXpOSIreC to cIectroallaglictic 1icids; tlic
1lrst legal action o' its kind in tlhe UK.
2Elecricily Association EMIF wsebsic, www.clcctricity.org.uk/uk_ inds/mi  introductio.uhItinl



'Ilic datc was scl in 1997 by wlhicih the plaintiffs hiad Lo produce cxpcrl evidcnce- hlic cvidcncc to
substanliae thilc clailils. I-lowcvcr, tlhc cvidcnic was nlevcr produced anld tlhc actioIn discontillnucd.
rhlc world's largest indcpcildcint cpidemiological (tilc study of incidcnicc of disease across
dcfincd populations anid possibic causcs) invcstigaLioln is curiciltly being conductcd by the UK
Clildlood Cancer Study. TIlic survcy lookcd at evcry cihild with Icukaemia in tile UK ovcr a
four-ycar pcriod.  Results, publishicd in Dcccmbcr 1999, lor elic cffcct of miagnlctic ficids on
caniccr hiavc and louLid notliniig to linic cihildllood cancer to mnagilctic ficids lfom  clectriicity
supply. The rCsulls concludc
'Thlis sludy) provides nlo evidenice thai exposure to magnelicfiellds ussociated with tei/ ele'ciricii)y
sup)ply in i/lie UK ilicrecases i-i.Y/ for childlhood leukuenia, cantcers of the ceniitrual i)eWvoi5 systlemi
ol- an)' othel clhildhiood cancer. '
ro date ovcr 10, 000 scicntific papcrs hiavc becn produccd on EMF and ovcr cighlty indcpendncilt
and autlhorlativc scicntilic paniels hiavC concluded that it hlas not bcen establishicd tihat m ainis
frcqueincy EMI causc advcrse humilanl hcalill cffeccts.
Limitations to r escarcih
SeCious limiLationis lhave bcn pointcd out in ncarly all tile studics of powcr lines and canice3.
ThesCe lilmlitation1s inCiuLdc unblinided assessniiit of exposurc, difficulty in makilng direct
mcasurcilicilts ol tlic constaniLly varyinig clectromaginetic 1iclds anid inconisisicicics betwcen
micasuircd levcls and the cstimatcs of exposure based on wiring confSigurationls.
Conflounidinig is a problem of cpidcmiology. Supposc an association has becn found bctwccn
mlagnietic fields and cancer. This miglht ilmcan that ficlds catise canccr or it may bc somiietlhaing
else tilat hiappcns to bc associaLcd witli thlc fields. One importanlt confounidinig factor is al
incoilmC   clfcct. P'eople living ncar powcrlincs tend to be poorer tlian the conitol group and tliher
is a stronlg anld wcll-kilowil cpidCIlmiological rlcationshlip bctweeil poverty anld canlccr4.
Morcovcr, all ol tllcsc cpidemiiological studics hiave bccn conducted in pursuit of a cause of
cancc- for whiicih thlirc is no plausible biological basis. The absclc or bothl a mcchianiisim lfor
biological clfccts of EMF and rcpr-oducible laboratory rcsults mcanis tihat tile cpiderniological
rCsults, alreal(ly soMCewhat wcakl, arc viewcd witli muchi grcatcr sccpticisimi.
Colncluioll
It is important not to draw conlclusionls fromil individual studies in isolationi but to look at the
tolality of lic evideincc. Ihlic cpidemiological studies, taken as a whiole, consist ofa lcw carly
low quazility stuLdies, somlic of which yieldcd positive cffccis, and later, highlic- quialit) sttUdics,
which yielded niegativc stLLdies.
3 Savitz DA, Pcarcc NE, I'oole C. (1989) Mcltodological issucs in the cpidemiology ofclcctromiiag,netic ticlds anid
cancr. EpideLmiol Rcv 198') 1 159-7,.
Gurncy, J.G. ct al (1995) Childlhood caniccr occurrcincc in relationi to po\ci- linc coniligurationis: a stu(ly oi potential
selectioni bias in casc -control studics. E1ldeumology 6, pp. 31-35.



Irpowcr lilcs CaLISC canccr it would bc natLulal to cxpcct hlic latcr studics to confilirm llic carlicr
studies. hlicicfoic thlc ciear wciglit of evidcncc reiimainis against EMF being a cause of cancer.
The evidence does not rule out tlierc being an clfect, bult equally, the scicntilic cvidenice Iaills a
long way silort ol cstablishliing tihat an cilcct is likcly.






Annex 5
a- Extracts - Project
Feasibility






Aiincx 5 - Extracts frrom Project Fcasibility Studies
7.0   Project Scope, Cos. Estimates -Ai
impr  emnhntaion Schnedule






7.0   Project Scope, Cost Estimates aind Implementation
Schedule
7.1   Project Scopc
The project comprises the following:
7.1.1 Transmission lines
construction of approximately 120km of a 161kV line using 2x265 sq. mm ACSR
(twin toucan) conductors on conventional s; el lattice towers fitted with two (2)
shield wires.
provision of approxim-tcely 120.;m of optic fibre conductor (OPGW) in place of
one shieldwire.
diversion of approximlately 20kmn of the existino I61kV Misti_;oe condLuctor linc to
provide aclecluate right of way for the new lins.
7.1.2 Substations
expand and uPgrade Obuasi substation for the termination of the new line.
This wvill involvc the provision of lMne terminal equipment, dedicated cirCLiit
breakers for existing transformers, protective relaying and uPgrade of the power
carrying capacity of the cxisting bus work.
cxpand andl upgrade of PresLea 161kV substation for thie line ter-nination.
This will Incluide the following:
cniov.:l of one of the existing synchronous condensers which has become
Wcilundant as a resIlt of the line construction.
provision of line tlrrninal ecluipment for the new/ line bay.
-  re-tcrrilnation of tlle Bogosu line in th- new bay,
-   liination of thc nev.' line (Obuasi) in the existing DogoSLI line., bay,
-   provision of a unified control and metering system
- provision of a ramn) to access existing 151/55 kV transformiers.
24
'~  f~. ,,.i1.,  .nir :'~ILi, i' F0; :.bINY shl:!b            VflA IJ~  ln



7.1.3 Conimunication System
This made up of:
-     modification and upgrade of the mimic board and softw;are at the System
Control Centre in Terma.
provision_oi power line carrier (PLC) and ibre optic communication intZe-face
equipmlent,
provision for tele-procc:ion and voice cCmmunication systems
7.2   Project Cost Estimnates
The cost of the project was estimaLed based on prices from recent International Competitive
Bidding. The total cost of the project is about USS 12.5 million of which about 15% is
e;<pected to be in local costs. Table 1 below provides a summary of the project costs. The
detailed cost estimales are provided in Appendix B.
Table I -- Project Cost
Estimate
Description                            Amount (USS)
161 kV Transmiission Line                      9,570,000
Substations -                                  1,320,000
Conrnunlicatior,s and SCADA                      500,000
Total Project Cost          11,390,000
Physical Contingency (5%)                        569,500
Cngincrino anrd Projcct Managenienk              569,500
(5 '/o)
GRAND TOTAL               12,529,000
7.3   Projcct bnip!cnicntation Schedulc
The transmission system  studies and analysis carried out demonstrate the necd to
inmloe incnt thnc proj-c. on a fast track basis under the present systcn operating conditions as
voill as slhould thD gcneration capacity at Aboacdze bc increased beyond 300 MW or the
pmooosed fMlarathon or KMR plant to bc developed.
I-or thesc roasons, tihe project Would liave to be implementeci Under inteinational
conipetitioi-i bidding process to enable the line be commissioneci before thC end oi thOi ycar
2000.
25
['c,a- C)iI.*i .4; ri.. -; .x  . .1,4; LI.iL' F,'.u;iji'i:  S".:.  VR  rLD,;c  D:s,



The project cycle is split int; three main components:
a)     Planning and Feasibility, Funding Arrangements, etc.
This is made uo of preparation of feasibility report, preparation of conceptual
designs, project evaluation by financier 2nd finance effectiveness.
We estimate that it will take about 3 months to implement.
b)    Prc-Contract Activities
These include preparation of preliminary designs, technical specifications and
tendering documents, the tendering process, tender evaluation and contract
award, transmission line route surveys, right of way acquisition, etc.
This component is expectecd to take abou; six months to complete.
c)      Construction
This will be made LIp of final line roulte survey, placement of ordors for
equipment and materials, detailed design, civil works, electromechanical
erections and testing and commissioning.
This component is expected to take eighteen (18) months to complete.
A detailed project implernencation schedule is attached.
ZV.
_ y
r.:.-. c)s.l; T ',J,,,.-.; on L:a1  Fcasibt:(y S'li,              t'FRAl E f  rUts'






8.0 Economic An-alyses






8.0 Economic Analyses
This Section describes the economic analyses undcertaken to evalua2e the viability of the
project.
8.1   Mcthodoology and Assumptions
The technical justification for the construction of the Prestea - Obuasi Transmission line has
been demonstrated in the previous sections of this report. T he reinforcement oF the national
transmission grid by the construction of this line is necessary to retain the national grid's
capability to meet current and future demands for elcctrical energy supply reliably. The
construction oi the linC Will also resuLt in decreased system losses and raise the capability of
the network thus providing an opportLunity for the transmission of additional enerny to serve
both the domestic and the export market.
The economic benelits of constructing the Prestea - ObLiasi line were based on the decrease
in system losses computed from the load flow simulations presented in Section 5 of this
report. Based on a system load factor of 70%, the system loss load factor was conmputed
based on the following cimipiricail relationship:
System Loss Loacd Factor = 0.2 X Load Factor -+ 0.8 X Load Factor Z
The systenm loss load factor was then used to convert the capacity losses at peak to energy
losses using the following formula:
Energy Losses (GW,41h)  Peak Losses (Ml. AXSystem Loss.LoadFactorX8.76
The economic benefils of the loss reduction were then compared with the economic costs of
the project in a CilscoLinted cash fiow analysis. Thle present value of the net economic
benefils ancd the economic internal rate of return are computed as a measure of the
economic viability of impleentilnig the project.
-he followiVng basic assLiniptions were madc for both tnc econoirnic analyses:
T The present worth year is 2030.
* A planninrj horizon of thirty(30) years starting from 2000
*  Ax prices arc uxpressed in constant 1998 priccs
ThIe annual operating and maintenance cost estimated3 at 2% oi capital cost
Losses werc valuoedl at the Cost Unservecl Energy (CUE) of 0.25 cents/kWh2
*  DiScount Ralte Of 10%
27



The economic benefits from the implementation oF the project wavre derived on the basis on
tne reduction in losses valued at the Cost of Unserved Energy.
The economic costs .of the project include:
*  Fixed annual costs of the project
o  Annual Operating and Maintenance costs of the transmission line
o  Allowance for depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis estimated to write
off the cost of the transmission line over its expected useIul IlWe.
8.2 Results
Details of the economic analysis computations are provided in Appendix C. The Base Case
Scenario Indicates an Net Present Value (NPV) of economic benefits of about US$ 65
million. The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the Base Case Scenario is also
comPuted to be about 69%. These two economic indicators demonstrate the economic
viability of the project.
Sensitivity analyses of the NPV of the Base Case Scenario indicate that a 10% increase in
the projcct capital cost results in a decrease oF the NPV of economic benefits from about
USS 65 nmillion to aboLut USS 63° million, a decrease of about 3%. An increase in the base
discoLunt rate formn 10% to 12% decreasc the NPV of econormnic bensfits to USS 55 mnilion,-a
15% decrease. Finally, a dJecrease in the Cost oF Unserved Energy from 0.25 cents/kWh to
0.15 cents/kWh rosults in a decrease of the NPV of net economic benefits to US$ 31 m1illion,
a 52c%, decrease.
Sensitivity analyses oF the EIRR of the Base Case Scenario also indicate that a 10%,'o
Increase in the projoc, capital cost resLults in a decrease of the EIRPR froim aboLtL 89% to
about 80%.o Also, a decrease in the Cost of Unservecd Energy frorn 0.25 cents/kWh to 0.15
cents/iN/%Wh resullts in a decrease of tnc EIRPR oF the project from about 89% to about 49%.
ilhis iS ba!scd on a the VFA Load Forecast Study of Sciprteber, 1j95
Ob:,ia. rr,non,i .:,. t.; I-e- ':t                          v.. .Lo.c; Deput



3.0 Conclusions anid Recommendations






3.0   Conclusionis andcl Recommendations
3.1   Conclusions
The existing transmission system is not capable of withstanding sinole contingencies
involving the loss of the following line srgments:
-     Akosombo - Kumasi
-     Obulasi New Obuasi
-     Aboadze - Winneba
-     . Pres.ea - Bogosu
The loss of any of tthe first three line segments results in transmission line overloads
on Prestea-Bogosu line section vwith uinacceptable voltages in the Northern and
south-western systems. The loss of the Prestea - Bogosu line section resullts in a
total collapse of the power system. The operation of the transmission system will be
very difticult if the line were not in place by the year 2000. The system will be
exposed to a highl risk of failure until such time that the line is put into service.
2.    The cxpectedi commissioning of addilional generalion in the western part of Ghana
(the 100 MW unit of Takoradi Expansion and the 140 MW GNPC. Plant) further
stresses the capability of the transmission network to support the delivery of power.
Under thesc conclitions, the load floN analysis indicate that the loss of any scgnient
of tihe transmission system results in a total collapse of the transmission network.
2     Tho commissioning of the Prestca - ObUasi Transmission linc by tilC ycar 2000
provides the necessary reiriforcenint; to nilaintain the rcliability of the transm-ission
systorn. In addition, losscs are reduced by zbout 8.4 MW as compared with the case
wiithout the Prestea - Obuasi line.
Substantial energy gains for the period 2000 to 2005 are obtainecd duie to the
recluction of losse,s as a resulI of the construction of the Prcstee Obuasi linc. The
cnergy gainis are estimated to be 39 GWh in 2000, 54 GWh in 2001, 69 GWh in
2002, 53 GWh in 2003, 33 GWh in 2004 and 22 GWh in 2005.
J     T-hC capital cost of constructing lhe Prestea Obuasi line is estimated at abouit USS
12.5 imiillioni.
Su.- Ob J Tr.m ..u..ssic . , Fox.;bildy  .'y                 VA'n.   r



6.    Based on thc estiniated cost above, a Cost of Unserved Energy of 0.25 cents/kWh
and a discount rate of 10%, the Ne; Present Value of Economic Benefits is estimated
at about USS G5 million.
7.    The internal rate of return (EIRR) cf the project is about 89%, which confirms thc
robustness of the project.
6.    Sensitivity analysis on the project cost estimate, discount rate and project
implementation delays indicate that the project is economically viable over a wide
range of changes in these parameters.
3.2   Rccommendations
Based on the conclusions above, it is recommended that:
1. Immediate steps are taken to ensure the construction of the Prestea - ObLasi
Transmission line, to improve the rcliability of the transnmissiorn system. The line w,ill be
re;uired ber ore the year 2000
2.    Given the imminent implementation of the Takoradi Expansion, the development ol
the project should be put on a fast track basis. This will require the immediate
commiscsioning of preparatory viorks such as the following:
-     linc route surveys
-     transmission line and substaLion design
-     tow,er spotting and.
-     prepa,a;.on of tender documents for the construction phase
Arrannemnents should also be initiatl_d to arrange the necessary fuinding for the
project



Annex 6
s Consultations






1.1 ci'i of Crpl  (110                                    I-OREST SERVICES DIVISIONi
nuniber s1id data of ildi                                    FRY            r27
Iottsr should bn gumcd                                          P. 0. DOX 527
~~ .'~,              ACCRA
;Kt Rd.£  Y.. .f...                                          9Ih May 2000
'iYour Ref. No......            [1PLIC Of 61 lANA.
Mr. E. Darko-Mcnsah
rearn Lcadcr
REIAST
A ccra
Dear Sir
RE: l'XROPOSEI) PR1STIEA-OBIUASI 161 I(V
TRANSMISSION LINI; CONSULTATIONS
F1OR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
I hcrIcby ICspoIld to your lettcr Rcf. No. RF/EIA/001 of 13"' April, 2000, conccrnlilng thc
ab6ve as lollowing.
Iliat we would hiave to identify and cnunierate thc iiicrchiantabic trec specics to be
aflected by the proposed tranlsmission lie and issuC pcrmit to an accreditcd tliibcr
contractor to salvage saiie beforc thlc Volta Rivcr Autlhority (VRA) or tlhcir agent could
bc allowed to comimence work in the reserve.
Asscssmiienlt wouldl also liave to bc madae olf the damage to be caused lo thc lfocst
ccosystcm by the lranismission line project and find the appropriate means to militigate the
cfel'cct zad impact.
A lormzal pcrmissioIl sLatinig the terms and coidit'iolnis WOLId tlihCI be issulcd by Ilic
F-orestry Coimimiissoion to the VRA foi access into the forest reserve.
Thank you.
Yours faitlhfully
.. 1 01,00
AG. OPLERATIONS DliRECTrOR
f or: AG. IiXECUTIVE DIRECTOR






E,iFai I
Subjcct:      VRA Powcr-linc Extension Projcct
Datc:         Tuc, 25 Apr2000 13:13:11 +0100
Fromii:       Joc Anianor <jamanor(ash1anti.nct>
Organizalionl: Ashaniti Goldfields Compainy Limited
To:           "Aba Amissahi Quainoo (Ms)" <mcl(%glaIIa.comII>
DCar Sir,
ThIanIk you fo-r youI ICltCI Irf MEL/6.3. 16/2000/75 of April 6tll, 2000, and
map rcspcctivcly, on tlic abovc subject.
I have to apologisc for tilc delay in rcspondinlg.
Wc hiavC sLudicd lihc map carefilly, and our vicw, is tilat, your proposcd
routc would not inticrferc withi AGC cxploratory activitics for tilc
IOICsCeCablC future.
Yours faitlifully,
J A Amlanior
Scnior Manager-Geology
VRA Power-line Extension Project






nnnnn in annni -  nr rsiiinm nnsini n * onfniAnn T   aann nn                         n   d r,
Annziex 6-1               RECEIVED      2 4 I1AR 2.
DUNIWKWA CONT'INENTAL GOLDFIELI)DS LImrTED
V      . I ( I  I'i   I   I 21 .
D)tall'.a -o li- A  ) in-
\'.IK A I 'VIRO )NNII N I Al. (O ;I II TIAN I'S
I'A    N0> 3t.8(0.1 - 2-15 -129
Dca;!- SIj I.
£Tt)N,S:J:Is,!("I.S)NO.f  ErY ')WFtR I INE i' IOIM( PI'IEI'II'STIAAI () 1LLL'X_iL
I'ilPl'l' IIt diSCUShi(IS /111 ill IC t OSSit Meilpact' 0t te elnsOIo LioLn u1 <th Nc  I to\ er P   . ilic
bwt wnll \V RA I nlvil(Ell lita! COn SlStIatsII dIillth M1a11Vn;aI,I m1e   I 0 .('D.1.1.. oi 1 711i
Marcli. 210i0L. \ve xishit itnt'royllo Y1U thlIlt aftrl a CIaellFlUl Mudl ol l'the lotel. it 1 h bClen
aslcerialtnd tailt the projeeL %viIII niot impact ULIseIO OI hori-1'  I
F1r1ii's'! OI Cl
'CtiiL'ral] 5\l;11l;-ntw






Ainicx 6-2
F A C S I M I L E
BOGOSO GOLD LIMITED
MINESITE
TEL: 233 (0) 362 20469        FAX: 233 (0) 362 20295/20180
email p-kling,pornhbg1gh.com
TO,            Evaus Darko-Aclnsali        COM1PANY     : REFEST
FAX NO)       022 206959                   LOC'A'I'ION : Tcia
FROM        1:et icr kling-sporl           CC:          :Richiard Gray
DATE         :10/04/2000
SUJ   E JLCI  : VAR Proposed Linc Rtoute
l'AikG E1's  :
My a)lloIugics lor iiiis lIa c reply. It has taken l us soelimc eiie to su rv'y the proposcd rotllec
.and dI(letail its etleels to olr miniling op)eratiolis.
In -elleral, l liC proposed lile Irotile is alow, the edge o (oIr existing inini ;arca, and hlle
Bou-osu divcrsioll, is through explora(ion) a rca that has fultlulc Iilning possibilitics.
WVc bclic c (lite proposed route would lhind(cr our miinling opcrations with p)ossiblc
(da11mage to lic lieInew route towers and cables fro in 'ly-ing rock fr-omi minie blasting.
Wec Ivould lilkc to Suggest (Ia t tih linie is locauted oni the otlicr sidc olfIlic cxisting 161 J,VK
lieic and,,1 Ivlvc [he Cexistilln line at N36800, El167000 a zid t ravcl alog, as car as possible lto
o0 u lcalse boullnlna.
lBuo-so GolI Limitiied is Imior-C (hall Ivillilng to discuss z-oulc ae lclt1e;ifives wvi i (lie iitcilliu
ol' arriving, at a s iii tla arrangeinen (, that is agrccable to botih parties.
I I' UlTIOII..L '0 CON'I'ACT 'I'IIC MINC 2;1Tr UE  CONTACT OUR ACCRA OrTICEi
JI I C iW l:: . 3 (0O )2. . 1  77 Ol/.  1  L'A ?c,1T1 .






Annex 7
Plates






-I 
AN~~~~
u   .  .u.~~~~. ,.n.
*             '79.
CA                                                 1t, .   i, ,-.-
3 -
o'            .       - 
co






.Z~I                .
A4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'Y
Plate-2~~~~ Tyica Toe Bae(ealo  otinet
S~~ -                 E--S\gv;  4r- 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~ "                    >,  ;  t,%r
s = t. - . - 6 ' -X
,,   -,  s  --  ,  f t;   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ;
..   -  -, , , . ... . N, . ,- s-';-
Pliate-2    Typiccal Tower Base (Detail of Foot in Inseirt)






I,     '        ..      
V  s   a.  ,  , .,   ,
II  , .- --  S,-         t ,,
V~~~~~w' 
Flate   xml  fWoe  oe  sdi  rnmsinf3V






-~-
Plate-4       Example of Concrete Poles For Transmission
(Showing Signs of Deterioration)



