Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2682 GH
                       Development Credit Agreement
                          (Thermal Power Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 30, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2682 GH
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
June 20, 1994, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the
operation of the Borrower's power sector (hereinafter called
the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
    (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
    (C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Volta
River Authority (VRA), with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
VRA a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
    (D)   VRA intends to contract from the Commonwealth
Page  2
Development Corporation (CDC) a loan (the CDC Loan), in an
amount of approximately $30,000,000 equivalent to assist in
financing Part A.1 of the Project, on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (the CDC Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between VRA and CDC;
    (E)   VRA has contracted from the European Investment Bank
(EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan), in an amount of approximately
$46,500,000 equivalent to assist in financing Part A.1 of the
Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement
(the EIB Loan Agreement) entered into between VRA and EIB;
    (F)   VRA intends to contract from the Caisse Francaise de
Developpement (CFD) a loan (the CFD Loan), in an amount of
approximately $23,000,000 equivalent to assist in financing
Part A.2 of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the CFD Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between VRA and CFD;
    (G)   the Borrower has contracted from the Kuwait Fund a loan
(the Kuwait Fund Loan), in an amount of approximately
$16,500,000 equivalent to assist in financing Part A.1 of the
Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement
(the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) entered into between the
Borrower and the Kuwait Fund; and
    (H)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Bank for
African Economic Development (BADEA) a loan (the BADEA Loan),
in an amount of approximately $10,000,000 equivalent to assist
in financing Part A.2 of the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the BADEA Loan Agreement)
to be entered between the Borrower and BADEA; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and VRA;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Clearing House System" means the Cross-Debt Clearing
House System, established pursuant to the Letter of Intent,
dated April 4, 1989, among the Borrower, the Electricity
Corporation of Ghana, VRA and the Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation;
    (b)   "Electricity Demand Management Fund" means the fund
referred to in Part B.3 (c) of the Project;
    (c)   "Electricity Demand Management Program" means the
program referred to in Part B.3 of the Project;
    (d)   "Environmental Assessment" means the environmental
assessment report entitled "Takoradi Thermal Plant,
Environmental Impact Assessment", dated August 1993, as
supplemented January 1994;
Page  3
    (e)   "MOME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Mines and
Energy;
    (f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and VRA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
    (g)   "Power Plant" means the 300 MW generating facilities
referred to in Part A.1 of the Project;
    (h)   "Power Sector Reform Committee" means the committee
established by the Borrower in March 1994 to prepare proposals
to reform the regulatory framework governing electricity
utilities and to increase private sector involvement in the
provision of electricity utility services;
    (i)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and VRA pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
    (j)   "VRA" means the Volta River Authority, a body corporate
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Volta
River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46), as amended.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred and twenty four million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 124,100,000).
    Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Page  4
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing June 1, 2005 and ending December 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 2.09. VRA is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Part A of the Project for the purposes
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out Part B of the Project through
                MOME with due diligence and efficiency in
                conformity with appropriate administrative,
                financial, engineering and public utility
                practices and with due regard to ecological and
Page  5
                environmental factors and shall provide, promptly
                as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                other resources required for such Part of the
                Project; and
          (ii)  without any limitation or restriction upon any of
                its other obligations under this Agreement: (A)
                shall cause VRA to carry out Part A of the
                Project, to perform in accordance with the
                provisions of the Project Agreement all the
                obligations of VRA therein set forth, (B) shall
                take or cause to be taken all action, including
                the provision of funds, facilities, services and
                other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                enable VRA to perform such obligations, and (C)
                shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                which would prevent or interfere with such
                performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit to VRA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and VRA, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
which shall include provisions requiring the repayment by VRA
of principal in 17 years, including 3 years of grace, payment
of interest at the rate of 8% per annum, and the foreign
exchange risk to be borne by VRA.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall be
carried out by VRA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause all bills payable
through the Clearing House System to be settled on a monthly
basis.
    Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall ensure that the Power
Sector Reform Committee operates under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause
VRA to carry out, in a timely manner an action plan,
satisfactory to the Association, to implement the measures set
out in the Environmental Assessment.
    Section 3.07. In carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the
Project, the Borrower:
    (a)   shall cause the Power Sector Reform Committee to
prepare, and provide to the Association for discussion, not
later than May 31, 1995, a draft report, in scope and detail
satisfactory to the Association, regarding recommendations for
modifying the regulatory framework governing electricity
Page  6
utilities and for increasing private sector participation in
the provision of electricity utility services;
     (b)  shall cause the Power Sector Reform Committee to adopt,
not later than September 30, 1995, a final report, which takes
into account the comments of the Association;
    (c)   shall, on the basis of such report, prepare, not later
than December 31, 1995, an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for modifying such regulatory framework and for
increasing such private sector participation; and
    (d)   shall thereafter implement such action plan in a timely
manner.
    Section 3.08. In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall implement the Electricity Demand Management
Program under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and shall operate the Electricity Demand
Management Fund under terms of reference and management
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with
the Association and VRA, not earlier than 12 months and not
later than 16 months following the Effective Date, a mid-term
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project and the
Program. This review shall cover, among other things: (i) the
performance of VRA in carrying out the Project; (ii) the extent
to which the institutional objectives of the Project are being
achieved; (iii) the work of the Power Sector Reform Committee;
(iv) the imple- mentation of the Electricity Demand Management
Program and the operation of the Electricity Demand Management
Fund; (v) compliance with the financial, audit and other
obligations of the Borrower and VRA included in this Agreement
and the Project Agreement; (vi) construction of the Power
Plant; (vii) the evolution of the key performance indicators
agreed upon with the Association; (viii) procurement under the
Project; (ix) implementation of the environmental action plan
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement; and (x) the
provision of funds for the Project by the Borrower and VRA.
    (b)   The Borrower shall transmit to the Association, at
least 30 days prior to such review, a report, in scope and
detail satisfactory to the Association, prepared by VRA (with
respect to Part A of the Project) and the Borrower (with
respect to Part B of the Project and the Program), describing
the status of progress regarding the items listed in paragraph
(a) above and of Project and Program implementation generally.
    (c)   Based on such review, the Borrower shall, jointly with
VRA, promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to the
Association, for the further implementation of the Project and
the Program, and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of Part
                B of the Project, for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
Page  7
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than six months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                thereof as the Association shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)       maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                       with paragraph (a) of this Section records and
                       accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)        retain or ensure that all records
                       (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                       receipts and other documents) evidencing
                       such expenditures are retained until at
                       least one year after the Association has
                       received the audit report for the fiscal
                       year in which the last withdrawal from the
                       Credit Account was made;
          (iii)        enable the Association's representatives to
                       examine such records; and
           (iv)        ensure that such records and accounts are
                       included in the annual audit referred to in
                       paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                       report of such audit contains a separate
                       opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                       statements of expenditure submitted during
                       such fiscal year, together with the
                       procedures and internal controls involved
                       in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                       support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out;
    (b)   VRA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
    (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that VRA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
    (d)   the Volta River Development Act, 1961 (Act 46) shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of VRA to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
    (e)   the Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of VRA or for the suspension of its
Page  8
operations;
    (f)   the CFD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1996, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for
Part A.2 of the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
    (g)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                (A)    the right of the Borrower or VRA to
                       withdraw the proceeds of any loan made for
                       financing the Project shall have been
                       suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
                       or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                       or
                (B)    any such loan shall have become due and
                       payable prior to the agreed maturity
                       thereof; and
          (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                satisfaction of the Association that:
                (A)    such suspension, cancellation, termination
                       or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                       of the Borrower or VRA, as the case may be,
                       to perform any of its obligations under
                       such agreement; and
                (B)    adequate funds for the Project are
                       available to the Borrower and VRA from
                       other sources on terms and conditions
                       consistent with the obligations of the
                       Borrower under this Agreement and of VRA
                       under the Project Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
    (b)   events specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (g) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject in the case
of paragraph (g) of that Section to the proviso of subparagraph
(ii) of said paragraph (g).
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDC Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement, and the Kuwait Fund
Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
    (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and VRA; and
    (c)   VRA shall have increased tariffs to a level sufficient
Page  9
for VRA to earn an annual return of not less than 8% of the
average current net value of their respective fixed assets in
operation for 1995 (as calculated in accordance with the
provisions of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement) and VRA
shall have increased its bulk supply tariff charged to the
Electricity Corporation of Ghana to a level such that the
average of such tariff for 1995 shall be at least Cedi 22.1 per
kWh (as adjusted, in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
to take into account updated information regarding VRA's costs
and revenues).
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
    (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by VRA, and is legally binding upon VRA in accordance
with its terms; and
    (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and VRA and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and VRA in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister for Finance and Economic Planning of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister for Finance and Economic
            Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                       Telex:
                ECONOMICON                     2205 MIFAEP GH
                Accra
    For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
Page  10
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                       By /s/ Ekwow Spio-Garbrah
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated                % of
                           (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
VRA
(1) Works for                95,400,000             100% of foreign
    Part A.1 of                                     expenditures
    the Project
(2) Equipment and               710,000             100% of foreign
    Materials                                       expenditures
    for Parts A.3
    and A.4 of
    the Project
(3) Consultants'services     13,710,000             100% of foreign
    and training for                                expenditures
    Part A of the
    Project
MOME
(4) Consultants' Services                           100%
    and Training for:
    (a)  Parts B.1 and         710,000
         B.2 of the
         Project
    (b)  Part B.3 of         1,060,000
         the Project
(5) Equipment for            1,770,000              100%
    Part B of the
    Project
(6)  Unallocated            10,740,000
                           ___________
         TOTAL             124,100,000
Page  11
                           ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "training" means expenditures for conferences,
workshops, courses and other forms of training, each as are
approved by the Association.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
    (a)   in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
    (b)   under Categories (4) (b) and (5) until the Borrower
shall have adopted terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association for the operation of the Electricity Demand
Management Program (including terms of reference and management
arrangements for the Electricity Demand Management Fund).
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods and works not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent, and (ii) consulting services not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase VRA's
generating capacity to meet increasing electricity demand, (b)
improve VRA's operational efficiency and strengthen its
institutional capacity, and (c) improve the Borrower's
management of the power sector.
    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   VRA Power Generation and Transmission and Institutional
          Development
1.  Construction of a 300 MW power plant (the Power Plant) at
Takoradi, consisting of:
    (a)   two 100 MW combustion turbine generator sets, and
    (b)   a 100 MW steam turbine generator and a heat recovery
boiler.
2.  Construction of about 360 km of associated transmission
lines from Tafo to Kumasi, from Achimota to Takoradi, and from
Takoradi to Prestea; and construction of substation extensions
at Tafo, Kumasi, Achimota, Cape Coast, Takoradi and Prestea.
3.  Strengthening VRA's capacity to manage the construction and
operation of the Power Plant.
4.  Strengthening VRA's institutional and operational capacities
Page  12
(including strengthening VRA's training center) through the
training of staff, the acquisition of equipment and materials,
and other measures.
Part B:   Regulation and Management of the Power Sector
1.  Strengthening the power sector regulatory framework, and
establishment of an arms-length relationship between MOME and
the public utilities (including with respect to the setting of
tariffs).
2.  Development and implementation of a program to increase
private sector participation in the provision of electricity
utility services.
3.  Development and implementation of a policy and institutional
development program (the Electricity Demand Management Program)
to improve energy conservation and end-use efficiency in the
electricity sector, which program shall include:
    (a)   measures to strengthen the capacity of private sector
suppliers;
    (b)   studies regarding patterns of energy use and surveys of
energy users;
    (c)   establishment and operation of a fund (the Electricity
Demand Management Fund) to provide credit to industrial,
commercial and municipal consumers to finance the acquisition
of equipment to improve the efficiency of electrical usage; and
    (d)   other measures to encourage industrial, commercial,
municipal and other consumers to improve energy efficiency.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  13
2.  Goods to be procured through international competitive
bidding shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
third-party inspection firms.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $280,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $20,000, may be awarded after
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Association review or approval
requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-
source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
Page  14
reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.
