E51
Volume 7
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINISTRY OF ENERGY/ELECTRICITY COMPANY OF GHANA LTD.
GHANA THERMAL PROJECT CREDIT (IDA 2682)
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OF THE
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADE PROJECT (DSUP)
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT
Refost Consulting
DECEMBER 2003                 Tema



I



LIST OF ACRONYMS
AMA      -   ACCRA METROPOLITAN ASSEMBLY
BSP      -   BULK SUPPLY POINT
DSUP     -   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADE PROJECT
EC       -   ENERGY COMMISSION
ECG      -   ELECTRICITY COMPANY OF GHANA
EIA      -   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EMF      -   ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELD
EMP      -   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
EPA      -   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
ESIA     -   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
GHC      -   GHANA CEDIS
GoG      -   GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
GT       -   GHANA TELECOM
kV       -   KILO VOLT (1,000 VOLTS)
KMA      -   KUMASI METROPOLITAN ASSEMBLY
LI       -   LEGISLATIVE INSTRUMENT
LV,'     -   LOW VOLTAGE
MoE      -   MINISTRY OF ENERGY
MVA      -   MEGAVOLT AMPERES
MW       -   MEGAWATT
NED      -   NORTHERN ELECTRICITY DEPARTMENT
NEP      -   NATIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
a



i
I
I
I
I



Executive Summary
The Ministry of Energy (MoE) is seeking to improve the electric power distribution system of the
Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) to levels consistent with best industry practice in order to
support the Government of Ghana's economic development goals. In line with this objective,
MoE proposes to apply some of the funds obtained from the World Bank under the Ghana
Thermal Credit facility (IDA 2682) to finance some projects of ECG under the Distribution
System Upgrade Project (DSUP).
In compliance with the requirements of the World Bank, the borrower (MoE/ECG) is required to
undertake an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the proposed developments under the
DSUP to address potential adverse impacts, if any, that could arise during the implementation.
The World Bank disclosure policy further requires that the environmental
(biophysical) and social assessments should be made and disclosed in separate
documents. This report therefore covers the environmental impacts assessment of
the DSUP.
The DSUP components cover both improvements to physical systems (sub-stations,
transmission circuits, communications systems etc) as well improvements to financial operations
and other forms of institutional support.
The EIA commenced with an Inception (Scoping) phase during which the scope of the
assessment was determined through consultations, desk studies and field evaluations.
Following the findings of the Inception report, it was decided to focus the EIA on the following
components of the DSUP:
* Construction of Primary sub-stations
*  Laying of Underground cables
* Construction of Overhead lines
* Upgrading of LV systems



The various institutional, regulatory and policy issues related to the project implementation
have been duly considered in this phase of the EIA.
Among those considered are:
* Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652),
* Energy Commission Act, 1997 (Act 541) and PUBLIC NOTICES
* National Museum Decree, 1969, (NLCD 387)
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 334)
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) (Amendment) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 346)
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963 (Act 186)
Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1970, Act 328
* ECG Safety Policy 1995
* ECG Environmental Management Plan 1999
The Road Reservation Management - Manual for Coordination
World Bank Safeguard Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) (Note that the
policy revision is OP 4.12, but this project is governed by the earlier version of the
policy)
Relevant sections of these provisions and guidelines have been used in the appropriate sections
of the report. The World Bank Safeguard Policy on Involuntary Resettlement provides the basis
for the socio-economic baseline and impact assessment on income loss due to disruptions to
persons/economic activities that would result during the project implementation.
The Road Reservation Management Coordination Manual prescribes procedures for dealing with
disruptions to utilities and traffic management during such works.
The project components are described in sufficient detail as is consistent with EIA practice in
order to point out the issues of environmental concem.
The section on the description of the existing environment presents general information on the
three (3) urban centres - Accra, Tema and Kumasi where the major DSUP components under
consideration in the EIA will be implemented.



Also provided is information on those components of the environment that would be impacted
by the project implementation activities. These would serve as a basis of predicting and
evaluating any anticipated impacts (magnitude, extent and significance).
The section on Impacts and Mitigation discusses impacts on the physical environment such as
noise, dust, waste generation and issues of public/occupational safety and prescribes
appropriate mitigation measures in each case.
A summary of the findings is presented below in a tabular format.
Table ES 1- Pre-Construction Phase
Impact                Source Activity  Mitigation                     Responsible    Nett Effects
Party
Loss of Vegetabon     Site/ Line route  Cleanng to be done in the dry  PIU/Contractor  Minimal
deanng           season, and limited to the very                exposure  of
essential sections.                            the soil to the
weather.
Table ES 2 - Construction Phase
Impact               Source            Mitigation                     Responsible     Nett Effects
Activity                                         Party
Dust generabon       Site clearing,    Exposed surfaces and sand heaps  PEO/Contractor  Reduced Air
excavation        will be sprayed with water                     pollution
Noise generation     Excavabon         Machines and equipment will be  PEO/Contractor  Reduced
machinery,        well maintained and operated to                noise
Human activities  reduce noise. Activibes will be                generabon
restricted to daytime.
Waste generation     Waste from        Cut brush, tree stumps and cable  PEO/Contractor  Avoid
vegetation        drums shall be disposed of as                  environmental
cleanng and      fuelwood.                                       degradabon
packaging
matenals (solid
wastes)
Public health        Excavations, pools  Adequate waming signs, directing  PEO/Contractor  Avoid
of water          of all collected water into public             accidental
drains                                         falls into open
trenches etc,
_                                                                       . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



and breeding
of mosquitoes
Occupabonal and      Constructional    Provision and use of Personnel  PEO/Contractor  Minimise risk
Public Health & Safety  activibes      protection Equipment                           of accidents
concems                                Cover up open trenches each day                to
Mark and seal off any open                      construction
trenches                                        workers and
Flll up any potential ponds                    the general
public
Oil spills and       Machinery         Proper maintenance of all       PEO/Contractor  Avoid
Leakages             operations        machinery and equipment,                       environmental
Provision of designated receptade               degradabon
to collect waste oils for proper
disposal
Table ES 3 - Operation and Maintenance Phase
Impact                 Sourme Activity  Mitigation                       Responsible    Nett Effects
Party
Waste generation      Disused          Old equipment will be put in     PIU            Avoid
transformers,    storage, reusable ones will be                  environmental
switchgear and   salvaged                                        degradation
conductors
During this phase of the studies, detailed baseline surveys were carried out along the proposed
routes. The surveys involved identifying project-affected persons using the criteria prescribed in
the World Bank Policy OD 4.30.
The affected persons include:
i.)    Those whose structures are of a temporary nature - movable kiosks, tables etc.
ii.)   Those whose structures are of a permanent nature - set in concrete
iii.)  Those who sell on the pavements and sidewalks (hawkers/seasonal sellers)
iv



The details of socio-economic impacts and mitigation including information on affected persons
are addressed in the social impact assessment report which is titled as Compensation and
Resettlement Plan.
The summary of the findings on the affected persons and structures is presented below.
Table ES 2 - Summary of Affected Structures and Persons
No. 1 Route       Permanent Structures / Affected Persons  Movable Structures / Affected Persons
1    Accra Route 1  15 structures  44 Persons         27 structures    46 Persons
2    Accra Route 2  9 structures   19 Persons         36 structures    * 36 Persons
3    Accra Route 3  Nil            Nil                  200 Persons (seasonal sellers)
4    1 Kumasi      4 structures      6 Persons         74 structures    *74 Persons
I~~~~~~                                           I
TOTALS       28 structures     69 Persons         137 structures    356 Persons
*Field Estimated numbers
ECG Environmental Management Plan (1999) and ECG Safety Policy (1995) provide guidelines
and systems for managing the environmental and health and safety aspects of the project
implementation.
Appropriate monitoring criteria shall be established to verify the predicted impacts of the project
on the environment and adjust the mitigation measures where necessary.
The Project Unit of ECG shall ensure that monitoring programmes are instituted and carried out
to cover the under listed areas. Relevant records shall be kept to ensure compliance with sound
environmental practices recommended in this report.
ECG's Environmental Officer shall oversee and report all monitoring activities and reports to the
Director of Engineering through the Director of Projects.
The monitoring criteria are outlined in detail in the report under the following headings:
* Construction Phase
* Waste management
V



* Operations and Maintenance Phase
* Socio-economic/cultural issues
A section outlining a provisional Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to ensure the
application of sound environmental practices during the various stages of the project is also
incorporated in the report. The provisional EMP discusses and allocates appropriate resources
for items discussed under mitigation and monitoring. Various clauses to be incorporated into the
contracts to cover environmental and safety aspects of the contractors obligations are also
provided.
ECG shall appoint a Project Environmental Coordinator who will also serve on the Project
Implementation Unit with support from the Projects Department, to oversee site construction
activities and monitor specific environmental criteria. A Social Impact Coordinator shall also be
appointed to see to the social issues. These persons shall carry on their assignments into the
operational phase of the project.
Details of consultations held with the various identified stakeholders are presented in a further
section on consultations. The report concludes with a recommendation for the implementation
of the project subject to monitoring of the various commitments made for mitigating the
environmental impacts.
VI



Table of Contents
Page
LIST OF ACRONYMS                                                     a
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0         Introduction                                             1
1.1         Objectives of EIA                                        2
1.2         Approach and Methodology                                 2
1.3         Institutional, Regulatory and Policy Considerations      3
2.0          Project Description                                     6
2.1          Construction of Primary sub-stations                    6
2.2          Laying of Underground Cables                            7
2.3          Construction of Overhead Lines                          8
2.4          Upgrading of Low Voltage (LV) Systems                   9
3.0          Description of Existing Environment                     10
3.1          Urban Profiles                                          10
3.2          Natural Environment                                      12
4.0          Potential Impacts and Mitigation                        13
5.0          Monitoring                                               16
i 1          Constructional Phase                                     16
5.2         Waste Management                                          17
5.3          Operations and Maintenance Phase                        18






GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINISTRY OF ENERGY/ELECTRICITY COMPANY OF GHANA LTD.
GHANA THERMAL PROJECT CREDIT (IDA 2682)
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OF THE
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADE PROJECT (DSUP)
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT
Refast Consulting
December 2003                                             Tema






1.0   Introduction
The Electricity Company of Ghana Ltd, (ECG) is a public utility service provider registered as a
private limited liability enterprise under the Companies Code, 1963 (Act 179). Currently, the
Government of Ghana is the sole shareholder of ECG.
The company is responsible for the distribution of electric power over the southem sector of
Ghana which comprises six (6) out of the ten (10) administrative regions namely Ashanti,
Eastern, Volta, Western, Central and Greater-Accra. The regions in the northern sector of
Ghana are served by the Northem Electricity Department (NED) of the Volta River Authority
(VRA).
ECG has further subdivided the six (6) administrative regions into nine (9) operational regions,
namely:
Accra West         Ashanti East      Eastern      Central     Tema
Accra East         Ashanti West      Volta        Western
In the course of its operations, ECG has not been able to match the demand of electricity with
the needed network upgrades and expansions. Insufficient tariffs have placed the company in
a poor financial state with inadequate investments such that most of the equipment in
operation are obsolete, and the transformers and associated distribution systems are constantly
overloaded. This has resulted in high distribution system losses, poor electricity supply quality
and reliability leading to considerable customer dissatisfaction.
It is the objective of the Ministry of Energy (MoE) to improve the electric power distribution
system of the Electricity Company of Ghana to levels consistent with best industry practice in
order to support the Government of Ghana's economic development goals.
In line with this objective, MoE proposes to apply some of the funds obtained from the World
Bank under the Ghana Thermal Credit facility (IDA 2682) to finance aspects of ECG's investment
programme under the Distribution System Upgrade Project (DSUP).



In compliance with the requirements of the World Bank, the borrower (MOE/ECG) is undertaking
an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the proposed developments under the DSUP.
REFAST Consulting, a Ghanaian Engineering and Environmental consultancy has been engaged
to facilitate the conduct of the EIA.
1.1   Objectives of the EIA
An initial screening and evaluation (Scoping) was carried out at the inception of the EIA to:
• Identify the components of the DSUP that could have adverse impacts on the environment
and socio-cultural conditions within their sphere of influence
* Identify all relevant stakeholders in relation to the proposed DSUP
* Determine the scope and methodology for assessing the potential impacts expected from
the implementation of the DSUP
* Assemble all necessary information including various Regulatory and Institutional
arrangements (World Bank, GoG etc.) relevant to the conduct of the EIA.
Based on the findings of the inception phase, the main objectives of this phase of the ESIA are
to:
* Focus the detailed assessment on the investment components covering the sub-
transmission and HV/LV systems that involve physical works. These include projects in Accra
(3 projects), Tema (2 projects) and Kumasi (2 projects).
* Propose Mitigation and Management Plan for dealing with the impacts assessed above.
* Prepare a Draft Report for study by the Client (MoE/ECG) and the World Bank
1.2   Approach and Methodology
The inception report further proposed that in order to meet the above objectives, the
procedures to be adopted in the EIA should be to:
* Hold consultations with identified stakeholders on details of the DSUP, to address their
concerns and expectations.
2 .



* Carry out detailed route surveys on the proposed circuit routes in Accra and Kumasi to
identify main environmental characteristics along the proposed routes and the extent and
significance of potential impacts in relation to Ghana EPA regulations and the World Bank's
safeguard policies (i.e. OD 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement).
In particular, it was found that the two (2) sites acquired for new constructions in Tema and
Kumasi are in properly zoned locations for development and have no significant environmental
characteristics and will therefore not require further detailed studies.
Both sites have been properly acquired from the bona fide title holders and were not previously
occupied by other users. Site plans for both sites are attached as Annex 1.
1.3   Institutional, Regulatory and Policy Considerations
The Ministry of Energy is the Government agency responsible for policy issues in the energy
sector. The ECG, through its Board of Directors, reports to the Government through the Minister
of Energy. The availability of a reliable and cost effective supply of electrical energy is
considered as a very critical component of the Govemment's agenda for growth and poverty
reduction.
The Ministry, through the ongoing Self Help Electrification Programme (SHEP) and the National
Electrification Programme (NEP), has facilitated the extension of power to all District capitals
and to various rural communities. In the search for more sustainable sources of power supply,
the Ministry has in place a Renewable Energy programme which is exploring alternatives such
as solar and wind generated power.
The relevant policies and the regulatory conditions that must be considered for the successful
implementation of the DSUP project have been assembled and reviewed during this phase of
the EIA process and appropriate consultations have been held with some of the relevant
institutions and agencies.
.  or   - .   _  _                                                   3



Among the documentation considered are:
Environmental Assessment Regulations, 1999 (LI 1652),
Energy Commission Act, 1997 (Act 541) and PUBLIC NOTICES
National Museum Decree, 1969, (NLCD 387)
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 334)
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) (Amendment) Regulations, 1964 (L.I. 346)
Lands (Statutory Wayleaves) Act, 1963 (Act 186)
Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1970, Act 328
ECG Safety Policy 1995
ECG Environmental Management Plan 1999
The Road Reservation Management - Manual for Coordination 2001
.  World Bank Safeguard Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30) (Note that the
policy revision is OP 4.12, but this project is governed by the earlier version of the
policy)
The Energy Commission's PUBLIC NOTICES EC. N. 001 and 003, require ECG to register the
proposed project with the Commission prior to commencement of the project as part of the
licensing process.
The components of the DSUP that involve construction of overhead and underground circuits
raise issues regarding the acquisition of wayleaves (Right-of-Way RoW). The determination of
the final routes and acquisition of the RoW shall be carried out with due consultations with the
communities within the project areas of influence. The various Lands (Wayleaves) legislation
identified above provide the necessary legal procedures for acquiring the RoW and these will
guide ECG and stakeholders concerned.
Consultations with some members of the local communities have been undertaken as part of
the baseline survey for this EIA process. The details of the findings are discussed in Chapters 3
and 4.
In the event of the chance finding of any archaeological artefacts in the course of clearing or
excavation for the construction works, the National Museum Decree, 1969, (NLCD 387) provides
4



the necessary framework for action. Procedures to be followed on the discovery of any such
artefacts are clearly outlined in the document.
Environmental issues involve aspects of both public/occupational health and safety particularly
in the working environment. It is important to note that ECG's installations and facilities
including those proposed in the DSUP are to be in compliance with the Factories, Offices and
Shops Act (Act 328, 1970).
The ECG Safety Policy outlines the various safety procedures that are to be applied at all stages
in carrying out activities on the ECG networks to ensure the safety of workers, general public as
well the plant and machinery. ECG's Environmental Management Plan also prescribes
procedures for dealing with environmentat concerns arising from ECG operations including
waste handling, EMF effects, Emergency response procedures etc.
The Road Reservation Management Manual for Coordination is a comprehensive document
developed between the various utility service providers in Ghana (ECG, Ghana Water Company,
Ghana Telecom, Volta River Authority), the Road Agencies (Department of Urban Roads,
Department of Feeder Roads and Ghana Highway Authority) and the relevant statutory and
regulatory agencies (Lands Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, Lands Valuation
Board etc.) for the efficient management of road reservations for the installation of utility
services such as pipelines, cables and transmission lines. Specifically, the manual deals with the
procedures for the handling of disruptions of utilities and traffic during construction and issues
of valuation for compensation, which are relevant for the DSUP implementation.
The World Bank Safeguard Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30) provides the
necessary guidelines for dealing with the various issues related to impacts of the DSUP activities
on persons and properties within the RoW along the various proposed circuit routes in both
Accra-Tema and Kumasi.   The baseline survey has been carried out by following the
recommendations of OD 4.30 in identifying the affected persons. These are discussed in
Chapter 3.
5



2.0   Project Description
The components of the DSUP being considered in detail in this phase of the EIA may be
grouped into four (4) types of project activities. These are:
* Construction of Primary substations
* Laying of Underground cables
• Construction of Overhead lines
* Upgrading of LV systems
This section descrbes these components in sufficient detail as is consistent with EIA practice so
as to be able to identify those aspects that raise environmental concerns. It must be noted at
this stage that all construction activities will be carried out by certified contractors to ECG's
documented Standards and Specifications which are specified in the contract of works.
2.1   Construction of Primary substations (Tema and Kumasi)
Primary substations in the ECG distribution system consist of 33/11 kV transformers which
receive 33 kV input and step down to 11 kV for further distribution in the ECG networks. There
are proposals to construct 2 new primary substations under the DSUP.
These are:
i.)   Tema - 2x20/26 MVA at Ashaiman
ii.)   Kumasi - 2x20 MVA at Boadi, KNUST
The main activities involved in constructing such stations are:
* Site clearing - substation sites are cleared completely of all vegetation, leaving a bare
surface at commencement of construction.
* Excavation - excavations are carried out to lay foundations for transformer platforms and
housing (and cables where appropriate). Some of the excavated soil is used to backfill as
necessary.
* Concrete works - concrete works for the foundations and footings are carried out as
required.
6



* Erection of Transformers - transformers and associated switch gear and circuits are
carefully mounted in their specified locations.
* Gravelling and Fencing - the exposed ground areas of the substation are covered with
granite chippings and kept free of weeds at all times. The entire area is provided with
appropriate security fencing.
The environmental concerns arising from the above activities include noise, dust and waste
generation as well as occupational/public health and safety issues.
When in operation, substations raise various issues of concern such as noise, EMF effects,
problems associated with repair and maintenance of equipment, oil leaks etc.
These are discussed in detail in Section 4.0 - Impacts and Mitigation
2.2    Laying of underground cables (Accra and Kumasi)
Underground circuits in the ECG distribution system are found mainly in built up urban areas
and in places where there is the need to avoid obstacles or crossing points. Under the DSUP,
the proposals for underground circuits are:
i.)   Accra: From Mallam BSP to Substation 'B' Korle Bu - sections of New 2x40 MVA
circuits 33 kV 500 sq. mm Cu 3x1C. Distance of Approx. 9 km.
ii.)  Accra: From Achimota 'H' to Makola 'GN - New2x4O MVA circuits 33 kV 500 sq. mm
Cu 3x1C. Distance of approx. 8.7 km.
iii.)  Accra: From Odorkor 'A' to Korle Bu 'B' - Replacement of existing cable with 40
MVA 33 kV 500 sq. mm Cu 3xlC. Distance of approx. 6.6 km.
iv.)  Kumasi: From Kaasi 'D' to Buadi-UST (New proposed S/S) - sections of New40 MVA
33 kV. Distance of approx. 1 km.
The main activities involved in such works are:
V Excavation of cable route (trenching) - In the ECG system, 33kV cables are buried at
between 900mm - 1100mm depth, with a trench width of about 500mm.
7



Trenching is done by a combination of machinery and manual labour depending on the
location and nature of the soil. ECG's Standard specifications for trenching and laying of
33kV and 11kV lines are presented in Annex 2.
* Laying of cables - The space immediately below the cable position is filled with dry sand to
a depth of about 100mm and forms a bed along the entire length of the trench. The cable is
uncoiled from the cable drum and laid out on the sand bed and covered with an additional
layer of dry sand before the trench is backfilled with the previously excavated soil. The
surface layer is then compacted and restored to the original condition.
* Protection of cables - Coloured warning tapes are buried near the surface during backfilling
to provide waming in event of any subsequent excavations works by other utility service
providers (e.g. water, telecoms etc). In addition properly labelled concrete pillar markers are
located at various points along cable routes especially in way of cable joints to provide for
ease of locating for repairs and maintenance.
In certain cases, cables may be laid next to each other at the same depth or even in layers at
various depths. In each case, ECG Standard Specifications that provide for safety and efficiency
are available to guide the contractor.
2.3   Construction of Overhead Lines
Overhead lines constitute the bulk of the circuits in the ECG distribution system for both HV and
LV. Under the DSUP, the proposals for HV overhead circuits are:
i.)   Accra: From Mallam BSP to Substation 'B' Korle Bu - sections of New 2x40 MVA
circuits 33 kV OHL 3W SC Tower 265mm Al. Distance of approx. 11 km.
ii.)  Tema: From Steelworks to Ashaiman (New proposed S/5) - New2x40 MVA circuits
33 kV OHL 3W SC Tower 265mm Al. Distance of approx. 7 km.
iii.)  Kumasi: From Kaasi 'D' to Buadi-UST (New proposed S/5) - New 40 MVA 33 kV
OHL 3W SC Tower 265mm Al. Distance of approx. 12 km.
8



NB. For these proposed lines, underground cables would be used at specific sections where it is
not feasible to go overhead (e.g. in sharp bends and crossing obstacles). Maps of the routes are
presented in Annex 3.
The main activities involved in OHL works are:
*  Positioning of Towers - The average span for the 33kV OHL is about 100 m. During
construction, sites for locating the towers will be selected in accordance with ECG standard
specifications and environmental considerations such as visual intrusion. At the specified
locations, towers may be buried to a depth of about 1800mm. The average height of the
towers/poles ranges from 10-12 m.
* Stringing of Lines - In most cases, lines are strung by manual labour. The minimum
clearance of the lines to ground is about 6 m at the lowest point of sag and this increases to
about 8 m in way of road crossings. The wayleaves for 33kV lines spans a width of 10 m
(5m on either side of the centreline). In built up urban settlements this space may be
reduced in certain situations due to space constraints.
2.4   Upgrading of Low Voltage (LV) Systems
The project activities proposed under this section consist mainly of transformer injection (i.e.
adding additional transformers to an existing substation) or replacing an existing overloaded
transformer with one of a higher rating. In some cases, the upgrading works will involve
replacing existing conductors with higher capacity.
Individually, these activities do not raise issues of significant environmental concern, however
the cumulative effects of some related aspects such as generation of waste material, oil
disposal etc., could be of concern. These are also discussed further in Chapter 4.
9



3.0   Description of Existing Environment
The major projects of the DSUP under consideration in this EIA are in the urban settlements of
Accra, Tema and Kumasi. The substation sites and circuit routes are located in populated built
up areas. This section on the existing environment presents general information on these three
(3) urban centres along with information on those components of the environment (both
natural and socio-economic/cultural) that would be impacted by the project implementation
activities. These would serve as a basis of predicting and evaluating any anticipated impacts
(magnitude, extent and significance).
3.1 Urban Profiles
Accra
Accra is the administrative capital of Ghana, with a population of about 2,207,147 people (PHC
2000). It is also the seat of Government, and important arms of the state such as the
Parliament House, the Supreme Court, the various Ministries, Departments and Agencies of
state are housed here.
Major economic activities here include manufacturing industries, commercial houses, utility and
service providers and the headquarters of many industrial and commercial concerns. Accra is
the hub of business and commerce in Ghana. The Accra-Tema area is key to Ghana's Gateway
Project, which seeks to make Ghana the entry point and arrowhead of economic and industrial
activity in the West African sub-region. Accra has a high demand for electric power and is
served by a 250 MVA BSP at Achimota and 150 MVA BSP at Mallam.
Tema
Tema is an important industrial city in Ghana, and lies 25 kilometres east of Accra. It is the
capital of the Tema Municipal Area, which is home to about 506,637 (Population & Housing
Census, 2000). Tema Township itself has a population of 280,000. It is a coastal city with a
shipping harbour and a fishing harbour.
0I O



Tema has the largest concentration of industries in Ghana, with more than 185 manufacturing
and industrial concerns. There is also a large number of small and medium scale enterprises,
especially in the wood processing, metal fabrication, food production and textile industries. The
major economic activities in Tema include fishing (subsistence and commercial), manufacturing,
industry, commerce, fishing, stevedoring and agriculture. Thus Tema provides employment for
a significant section of the urban population in the general Accra-Tema area. Tema accounts for
about 13% of ECG's sales with a peak demand of 100 MW.
The Greenwich Meridian runs through Tema, and major cultural and tourist sites, coupled with
its beaches make Tema an attractive tourist destination. Thus hotels and other hospitality
services also abound.
The Tema harbour is a major port along the West African coast, with an average annual traffic
of about 1170 vessels. Expectedly, downstream shipping activities such as stevedoring, freight
clearing and forwarding, warehousing abound in the township.
Kumasi
Kumasi is the second largest city in Ghana after Accra. It also has the second highest
concentration of manufacturing industries after Accra-Tema. It has a population of about
1,171,311 (PHC 2000). Manufacturing industries include sawmills, breweries, pharmaceuticals,
and electrical appliances. Kumasi has a current peak demand of about 130 MW and accounts
for 15% of ECG's total sales.
Kumasi is a nodal city with many outlying towns and villages. It is therefore and important trade
and commercial centre for foodstuffs, raw materials for industry and finished goods. Its central
location in Ghana ensures that goods in transit to and from Ghana's northern and western
neighbours, i.e. Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger and La Cote dIvoire (Ivory Coast) pass through
Kumasi.
The proposed development of an inland port in Boankra, near Kumasi will go to enhance
Kumasi's position as an international trade centre as Ghana's landlocked neighbours will utilise



the port. Kumasi is also a much preferred tourist destination due to its rich cultural heritage.
Thus the hotel and hospitality industry is also well developed.
3.2   Natural Environment
As indicated in the preliminary assessments in the Inception Report and confirmed during the
detailed baseline surveys, there are no significant natural resources/habitats (flora, fauna, water
bodies etc) within the project areas under consideration.
In the case of the proposed underground circuit route from Achimota 'H' to Makola 'G' in Accra,
there are a number of trees (mainly Neem and Acacia) found along the road reservations but
these would not be affected by the cable works since the trenching would be along the
sidewalks.
The Tema overhead line proposed from Steelworks to Ashaiman passes through mostly vacant
lots and along the reservation of the abandoned Tema-Shai Hills rail line. The vegetation,
consisting mainly of grass species, would not be significantly affected as digging will be limited
only to selected tower spots.
In Kumasi, a section of the proposed overhead line from Kaasi 'D' to Boadi-KNUST passes
through the reservation for the existing VRA 161kV line. The vegetation here consists mainly of
shrubs and grass species and would not be significantly affected, as excavation for towers will
be limited only to selected tower spots.
In view of the foregoing, the baseline survey focused on the socio-economic components where
the impacts on people and activities to be disturbed during implementation are expected to be
significant. This is presented in a separate social impact report titled 'Compensation and
Resettlement Plan'.
12



4.0   Potential Impacts and Mitigation
This section discusses the impacts expected at various stages of the project implementation and
recommended mitigation actions to minimise these impacts. The identification of these impacts
has been informed by comments and concerns of stakeholders, including the public. The
stakeholders are listed in Section 7 Consultations. The affected persons are listed in the
Compensation and Resettlement plan document.
* Noise Impacts - Construction activities tend to generate noise both from machinery as well
as from the workers on site at levels beyond 90 dBA. This impact would be significant in
those sections of the project that pass through residential areas where the Ghana EPA
standards prescribe noise limits of 60 dBA. The impact of construction noise on residents
may be mitigated by avoiding work during the night. In addition contractors and workers
will be instructed to minimise noise during working periods.
* Dust Generation - Excavation works and site clearing generate dust in the working
environment especially during the dry season. This impact is limited to the construction
period and may not be very significant in relation to the projects under consideration. The
recommended mitigation is to spray exposed surface and sand heaps with water.
* Waste Generation - Typical waste generated during the construction will be mainly solid
waste made up of cleared vegetation, excavated soils, packaging materials and
excess/damaged construction materials. Wastes will be segregated and useful items such as
wood pieces would be given out to workers for use as fuelwood. Waste receptacles shall be
provided at all work sites to be emptied periodically by waste management contractors.
Wastes generated during upgrading works will include used transformers, switchgear and
conductors. In line with ECG practice, these would be tallied and stored in the materials
depot at Tema. Some may be reused in other parts of the network or kept as spares.
* Impacts on Public/Occupational Heath and Safety - Throughout the project implementation
phases, workers and the general public would face various risks/hazards.
13



Among these are:
o Open trenches
c Accidents from machinery and tools
o  Fire risks
o  Electrocution
The ECG Safety Policy Manual, 1995, prescribes various safety procedures and
precautions that shall be applied at the various work sites. These include personnel
safety, use of safety clothing and protective gears, protection of public from worksites
etc.
As much as possible, trenches will be covered up each day before close of work. Any
open trenches shall be clearly marked and sealed off with fluorescent tapes. Adequate
waming notices shall be placed near to dangerous spots.
ECG's Environmental Management Plan, 1999, also prescribes procedures for handling
waste oils, maintenance wastes and other similar wastes.
The impacts discussed above are of a more general nature. However the two main areas of
significant impacts in relation to the projects under consideration are those associated with the
proposed cable works, which would require excavation within existing road reservations and
sidewalks/pavements. These are discussed below:
Impacts on utilities in road reservations - Urban roads usually have a reservation of
between 45 m to 90 m depending on their function. Within this reserved width, the
outermost 6 m stretch on either side is allocated for the use of the utility service providers -
Electricity, Water and Telephone.
During the excavations for the proposed cable works in Accra and Kumasi, some of the
existing services could be disrupted (e.g. Kanda Highway, Dansoman, Mataheko, Odorkor in
Accra and Kaasi in Kumasi) if their locations are interfered with.
14



A comprehensive system of collaboration and coordination between the various stakeholders in
road reservation management has been instituted since 1996. There is a published manual
known as the Road Reservation Management - Manual for Coordination - that clearly defines
the procedures to be followed to ensure that such disruptions are minimised.
The main focus of these activities are the Engineering Coordinating Teams/Committees set up
at national, regional and district levels which comprise of representation at the highest levels of:
* The Road Agencies
* The Town and Country Planning Department
* The Lands Commission
* The Land Valuation Board
* Ghana Water Company
* Electricity Company of Ghana
* Volta River Authority
* Ministry of Roads and Highways
* Ministry of Works and Housing
* Ministry of Transport
* Ministry of Energy
* Ministry of Environment and Science
* Ministry of Lands and Forestry
* Environmental Protection Agency
* Survey Department
ECG shall utilise these committees to ensure that the proposed works conform to the laid down
policies and that disruptions are kept to the barest minimum.
6  - -                                                           1 5



5.0   Monitoring
Appropriate monitoring criteria shall be established to verify the predicted impacts of the project
on the environment and adjust the mitigation measures where necessary.
The Project Unit of ECG shall ensure that monitoring programmes are instituted and carried out
to cover the under listed areas. Relevant records shall be kept to ensure compliance with sound
environmental practices recommended in this report.
ECG's Environmental Officer shall oversee and report all monitoring activities to the Director of
Engineering through the Director of Projects.
The monitoring criteria are outlined under the following headings:
* Construction Phase
* Waste management
* Operations and Maintenance Phase
* Socio-economic/cultural issues
5.1   Constructional Phase
. Transportation
Guidelines provided under section 11 of the ECG Safety Policy 1995 concerning motor vehicles
and transportation of personnel and materials shall be applied and closely monitored and
recorded. These will include monitoring the following activities:
* Speed Limits of vehicles
* Trucks conditions and maintenance
* Vehicular accident records
. Vehicle safety signals (flares, warning lights, reflectors etc)
. Vehicle fuelling procedures
* Vehicle loading/off loading procedures
16



* Vehicle daily check outs
* Driving licenses and permit to drive
* First Aid and Fire Extinguishing kit
* Civil Works
Activities to be monitored under civil works shall cover safe working practices in accordance
with ECG Safety Policy 1995 and Factories, Offices and Shops Act 1970 (Act 328). Monitoring
criteria shall include:
* Protective clothing and safety working gear (helmets, boots, safety belts etc)
* Noise levels (residential areas, etc)
* Plant and equipment maintenance
* Safety Test - lifting plant gears (wires, hoisting blocks etc,)
* Dewatering operations
* Concrete works
. Fire patrols
* Dust levels
5.2   Waste Management
Based on Guidelines provided in ECG EMP 1999, the following will be monitored:
* Waste water handling
* Waste segregation
. Waste dump sites
* Disposal of conductor drums
* Disposal of metallic waste
* Disposal of empty paint/chemical/solvent containers
1 7



5.3   Operations and Maintenance Phase
. Routine inspection of lines
* Towers/poles (damages, corrosion)
* Insulators and accessories (damages, replacements)
* Accidents involving lines and structures
* Occupational hazards and accidents
* Accidents affecting public safety
18



6.0   Provisional Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
This section outlines a provisional environmental management plan to ensure sound
environmental practices prevail during the various stages of the project. It discusses and
allocates appropriate resources for items discussed under mitigation and monitorng.
ECG shall appoint a Project Environmental Coordinator who will also serve on the Project
Implementation Unit with support from the Projects Department, to oversee site construction
activities and monitor specific environmental criteria. The person shall carry on this assignment
into the operational phase of the project.
The provisional plan discussed in this section has taken into consideration guidelines provided in
the ISO 14000, which deals with Quality Standards associated with Environmental
management.
6.1   Environmental Management Structure
Following the recommendations of the EMP adopted in 1999, ECG has appointed an
Environmental Officer to coordinate the company's environmental obligations.
The Environmental Officer shall be responsible for all environmental issues at the pre-
constructional and constructional phase of the project. Management of the post constructional
operational phase shall be incorporated into the Company's Environmental Management Plan,
which is presently administered by ECG.
6.1.1 Functions of Project Environmental Officer (PEO)
The functions of the PEO shall include:
Ensuring project compliance with all relevant environmental, social, health and safety
regulations
19



* Liaison with all relevant regulatory bodies and organizations - EPA, Factories Inspectorate,
Energy Commission (Inspectorate unit), Road Reservation Management
* Formulation and review of environmental and social policies and practices associated with
the project
* Liaison between Project Department and relevant ECG departments on all health,
environment, safety and social matters connected to the project
* Assisting in the education and training of project staff in environmental, social and safety
awareness
* Making budgetary provision for project environmental programmes
* Undertaking environmental and social monitoring activities for the project
* Working closely with project contractors to ensure that all monitoring and mitigation
guidelines recommended for the project are strictly adhered to during the various phases.
This will include following all heath and safety guidelines outlined and following strictly the
company's environmental policy guidelines
* To organise activities to motivate and maintain the interest of project staff in environmental
issues
* To increase project staff awareness of environmental issues through training programmes
and review meetings
* To coordinate investigations on all types of accidents
* To conduct environmental audits in accordance with project monitoring guidelines
20



* To serve as liaison between project contractors, the Company and relevant regulatory
agencies
* To produce environmental reports covering the project
* To develop a work plan for the implementation of the EMP
* To establish and run a reporting system on progress (or otherwise) in implementing
mitigation measures (including contractors obligation), collaboration with other agencies, etc.
6.2   General Health and Safety Procedures
ECG Safety Policy (1995) and guidelines provided in the Factories, Offices and Shops Act, 1970
(Act 328) given below shall be strictly complied with at all stages (pre- constructional,
constructional, operational) of the project. These regulations cover the major safety areas.
Further details of the two major safety sections (substation and line work) relating to this
project are also outlined below.
* General Safety Measures for workers engaged in construction, operation or maintenance
work.
* Code of Practice for vehicle and transportation of personnel and materials
* Code of Practice for Overhead Lines work.
Code of Practice for Underground Lines.
Code of Practice for storage and handling of materials
21



6.2.1 Code of Practice for Overhead Lines work.
Some of the important safety guidelines (lines work) to be followed as per ECG Safety Policy
1995 (rules 400 to 417) include:
* The person in charge
* Use of Ladders
* Work near live lines
* Protective grounding
* Roads and highway crossing
* Unfinished overhead lines work
6.2.2 Code of Practice for Underground work
Some of the important safety guidelines (underground work) to be followed as per ECG Safety
Policy 1995 (rules 500 to 518) include:
* Protection and Safety of employees
* Trenching and Excavation
* Work in cable joint pits
* Confined areas
* Permit required for confined space
. Road and Highway crossing
6.3   Pollution Prevention
In addition to the Code of Practice guidelines relating to health and safety, strict pollution
prevention guidelines shall also be enforced during all phases of the project.
Most pollution incidents are avoidable if careful planning and management procedures are
instituted.
22



Pollution prevention measures are much cheaper to implement than costly clean up after the
incident. For the prevention measures to be effective it is important that the project team must
first be adequately trained in pollution prevention for this assignment.
Some of the important pollution prevention guidelines to be followed for this project shall
include the following:
6.3.1 Planning and Preparation
Careful planning can reduce the risk of pollution significantly. As a first step environmental site
meetings shall be organised between the local EPA officer(s), the project team and contractors
prior to commencement and during construction operations.
6.3.1.1  Project Site Offices
A common cause of pollution is through acts of theft and vandalism. Project site camps/offices
shall be adequately protected by fences and locked accesses where possible. Security personnel
shall be engaged at site offices/yards.
Care shall be taken to ensure that any contaminated site drain water does not flow into nearby
water bodies (if any).
Fire precautions to be observed at site offices shall include:
* Provision of adequate and suitable portable fire extinguishers
* Adequate ventilation for storage rooms containing flammable chemicals
* "No Smoking" signals posted at sensitive locations
* Handling of flammable liquids by competent personnel only
* Rags soaked with flammable liquids shall be stored in metal containers and disposed of
safely
23



6.3.2 Storage, Handling and Disposal of Materials / Oils / Chemicals
The Company's Safety Policy 1995 (section 12) regarding above shall be strictly adhered to. In
addition, the following guidelines shall also be followed in the handling of materials, oils and
chemicals.
. Materials shall be stored in an orderly manner and in safe stacks, tiers or piles. Materials
shall be stored so as not to obstruct passageways. Where necessary waming signals, lights
and barricades shall be provided.
• Most chemicals used in construction operations such as oils, cement, cleaning materials, and
paint have potential pollution hazards. All such materials shall be stored on an impervious
base within a bund wall to contain any spillages.
* Leaking or empty oil / chemical drums shall be removed from the site and safely disposed
* Contents of all tanks / drums containing chemicals shall be clearly marked.
. Disposal of all tanks and drums shall be done safely. All contents of tanks/drums to be
disposed shall be emptied and perforated by competent personnel before final safe disposal.
. Fuelling of project equipment (trucks, excavators etc.) and vehicles may constitute the
greatest spillage risks. This shall be done in designated areas with impermeable surfaces
located away from drains or watercourses. Drip trays and spill kits shall be immediately
available. Fuel hoses and valves shall be regularly checked for leakages and wear and tear.
* Emergency spillage procedures shall be clearly outlined and posted conspicuously. Absorbent
materials for containing spillages shall be readily available on site. These shall include
sawdust, sand, etc.
24



6.3.3 Concrete Works
The construction of the substations will involve concrete works. Concrete and cement are very
alkaline and corrosive and can have serious pollution impacts on watercourses. Therefore all
concrete works shall be so sited and carefully monitored to ensure that such material do not
contaminate any streams and water bodies.
. Where possible water entry into excavations shall be prevented by the use of cut-off
ditches.
* The amount of soil stockpiles shall be kept to a minimum.
6.4   Waste Disposal
For the DSUP, the major sources of waste would be from the obsolete machinery, switch gear
and used conductors.
Other major sources of waste would be packing materials such as wood, plastics, metal scraps
etc. Appropriate waste bins shall be provided at site for collection and disposal through public
waste disposal system.
All used equipment/parts shall be stored in the Tema depot and re-used as needed or disposed
off appropriately under ECG laid down procedures.
25



6.5   Impact Mitigation Table
PROJECT            POTENTIAL                                PROPOSED         MONITORING/         NET
ACTIVITY           ENVIRONMENTAL          LOCATION          MITIGATION       FOLLOW -UP          EFFECTS
IMPACTS                                  MEASURE(S)
PRE-               Loss of vegetation     At sites for new  Vegetation       ECG Project         Will minimise
CONSTRUCTION                              substations, and  clearing shall be  Implementation Unit  vegetation
PHASE                                     along route of    kept to the barest                   clearing and
existing and new  minimum,                             exposure of soil
underground cables essentially along                   surface
cable route and
sites for new
substations, and
will be done in
the dry season.
Noise generation       Along sections of  Construction    PEO/ Contractor     Will minimise
CONSTRUCTION                              the project that  workers will                         noise generation
traverse residential  reduce noise                     from project
areas.            generation to the                    activities.
barest minimum,
PHASE                                                       and will avoid
working at night.
26



PROJECT            POTENTIAL                        _         PROPOSED         MONITORING/         NET
ACTIVITY            ENVIRONMENTAL          LOCATION           MITIGATION       FOLLOW -UP          EFFECTS
IMPACTS                                   MEASURE(S)
Dust generation        Around excavation  Exposed surfaces  PEO/Contractor       Dust generation
areas              and sand heaps                       from excavation
will be sprayed                      activities will be
with water                            reduced
CONSTRUCTION
Waste generation from  Along sections of  Tree stumps, cut  PEO/Contractor      Avoid
vegetation clearing and  route where new  brush and cable                       environmental
PHASE              packaging materials     cables will be laid  drums shall be                     degradation
(solid wastes).        or existing ones   disposed of as
replaced.          fuelwood.
Liquid wastes          At sites for       Liquids from      PEO/Contractor      Avoid collection
construction of new  concrete/ building                 of water that
substations, and   works will be                        may breed
replacement of     directed into                        mosquitoes
pavements and      municipal drains.
affected physical
structures
27



PROJECT            POTENTIAL                                 PROPOSED         MONITORING/         NET
ACTIVITY           ENVIRONMENTAL          LOCATION           MITIGATION       FOLLOW -UP          EFFECTS
IMPACTS                                   MEASURE(S)
Accidents/Slips/Fire   At all             The ECG Safety   PIU/Contractor      Minimise risk and
risks/Risk of          sections/locations  policy Manual                       danger of
Electrocution and                         1995 will be                         accidents to
Public/Occupational                      strictly enforced.                    construction
Health and Safety                         The provision and                    workers and the
use of Personnel                     general public.
protective
equipment will be
strictly enforced.
Oil leaks and other                       All waste oil will
toxics                                    be collected in
specially labelled
containers and
appropriately.
OPERATION          Waste generation from  Substations and    Old equipment    PIU                 Avoid
disused transformers,  transformers.      parts will be                        environmental
AND                switchgear and                            tallied and stored                   degradation
conductors                                in materials depot
1 1. !'                         I                               I 1 28



PROJECT          POTENTIAL               _            PROPOSED        MONITORING/       NET
ACTIVITY         ENVIRONMENTAL        LOCATION        MITIGATION      FOLLOW -UP        EFFECTS
IMPACTS                              MEASURE(S)
MAINTENANCE                                           at Tema.
Serviceable parts
PHASE                                                 will be salvaged
for future use
I,:  [                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29



6.6   Contract Clauses
Contract clauses have been provided to guide the operations of contractors and consultants.
They are as outlined below:
1.    Noise: The Contractor shall ensure that equipment used are well maintained
and operated so as not to exceed EPA Guidelines on ambient noise levels,
and to avoid working at night.
2.    Dust/Air Quality: The Contractor shall ensure that work sites and sand
heaps are watered down to observe the EPA Guideline for ambient quality for
the area.
3.    Demolition, Relocation and Resettlement: The ECG is responsible for
the payment of compensation to affected persons. Structures that will be
damaged in any way would be properly assessed and adequate
compensation paid to the owners, while those that can be repaired will be
repaired. A log of such damages/repairs and the compensation to be paid will
be kept.
4.    Occupational Health and Safety: The Contractor will be responsible for
the occupational health and safety of all workers on site at all times. Workers
will be provided with personnel protection equipment such as hand gloves,
boots and nose masks. All equipment and machinery shall be operated and
maintained in accordance with the original manufacturer's specifications to
minimise accidents.
5.    Public Health: Malaria is endemic in all parts of Ghana. The Contractorshall
ensure that no ponds are created that may serve as breeding site for
mosquitoes.
Further, adequately illuminated notices and warnings will be given at all
excavations that may be left unattended or overnight.
6.    Waste Disposal: The Contractor will ensure that waste generated on site
during the construction phase will be appropriately disposed of.
30



6.7   Budget to Meet Requirements
ITEM   DESCRIPTION                UNIT   [QUANTITY    UNIT COST     TOTAL COST
(GHC)         (GHC)
1      Overnight allowance for    Man-    12          150,000.00     1,800,000.00
Project Environmental      days
I Officer
2     , Overnight allowance for   Man-    12          80,000.00      960,000.00
Driver                     days
3      Overtime allowance for team  Man-  18           150,000       2,700,000.00
for work done in Accra     days
4      Vehicle Operation &        Days    30           150,000       4,500,000.00
Maintenance and fuel costs
5      Hotel Accommodation for 3  Nights  12          360,000.00     4,320,000.00
I people in Kumasi
TOTAL                                                             14,280,000
Assu mDtions
* Construction period is 4 months
* Monitoring period is 30 days
* Days in Kumasi is 6 days
* Days in Tema is 6 days
* Days in Accra is 18 days
31



7.0   Consultations
During the Inception phase, a number of stakeholders of the DSUP interventions were
identified. During this phase of the EIA, discussions were held with some of these stakeholders
to identify/address their concems and expectations.
Interviews and consultations were also held with the general public, especially some of the
potentially affected persons. A detailed list of potentially affected members of the public is given
in the Compensation and Resettlement Plan.
Table 7 below is a list of the organisations consulted and the contact persons. The issues raised
during the discussions are also presented after the Table.
Table 7 - Stakeholders Consulted during the EIA
No  Institution/Organisation            Stake/Role          Contact Person
A. REGULATORY/STATUTORY
1   Ministry of Energy                  Sector Ministry     Mr. Solomon
2   Energy Commission                   Sector Regulator    Francis Gbeddy
:  L                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J . Essa ndoh-Yedu
3     Public Utilities Regulatory Commission  Regulator (Tariffs)  S. N. Adu
4   Environmental Protection Agency     Regulator           E. A. Sampong
5   KMA                                 City Management     C. A. Mensah
6   AMA                                 City Management     Ms. Doris Tetteh
B. COLLABORATORS/SUPPLIERS
1  Department of Urban Roads           Roads               L. Hesse
2   Ghana Water Company                 Pipelines           G. Quaye
3   Ghana Telecom                       Lines/Ducts         R. Teye
C. CUSTOMERS, CLIENTS, etc.
1   Energy Foundation                   NGO                 Dr. Ofosu Ahenkorah
2   Association of Ghana Industries     Industrial customers  E. Sedo
3   Ghana Chamber of Mines              Mining customers    S. Koney
4   Affected Persons                    Affected by project  Various
32



7.1   Concerns/Comments for stakeholders
Ghana Telecom
• Provisions of the Road Reservation Management Manual will be applied.
* Provision of layout showing the proposed route to be used by the Electricity Company of
Ghana to enable GT to insert drawings of places where network exist.
*  Furnishing of GT with work plan/time schedule to enable technical personnel of the latter to
be on the field with EGC staff to give guidance and assistance where necessary.
* Rapid and free flow of information and co-operation among staff of both organisations to
facilitate the smooth progress of work when it commences and to avoid the destruction of
underground cables and ducts, thereby disrupting services within project area and adjoining
towns.
Energy Commission
ECG is required to fumish the EC with a brief but detailed write up on the project to enable
the Commission to give appropriate/ relevant guidelines for successful implementation of
the project. The detail drawings should show cable routes, sites earmarked by ECG as
suitable for the positioning of transformers, capacities of new transformers etc.
Accra Metropolitan Assembly
* Provisions of the Road Reservation Management Manual will be applied.
* ECG to present to the Assembly drawings on proposed project indicating the route and
other infrastructure to be installed ie the scope of the project
. An application letter should accompany these drawings and sent through the ECG
representative on the Accra Metropolitan Planning Committee to the Town and Country
Planning Department for further action
• In places where the proposed route passes through properties or will require relocation of
affected persons or property, a detailed compensation plan will be necessary
* ECG is required to work in close collaboration with other utility agencies to ensure the
continuous availability of the services of the other service providers
33



Kumasi Metropolitan Assembly
•  Service to some parts of Kumasi, particularly the Industrial Area, has been erratic and
unreliable.
*  This area has the highest concentration of heavy-machinery industries, including breweries,
sawmills and other industrial concerns.
* The project would thus improve power supply and quality, especially in the industrialised
areas such as Kaasi, Atonsu and Ahinsan, and is a welcome development.
Energy Foundation
* The principal complaint from consumers has been frequent power failures and unavailability
of power supply to certain parts of the city.
* If the project would improve the quality of power supply and make it possible for supply to
be extended to new development areas then it would spell relief.
Ghana Chamber of Mines
* The main complaint from their members has been irregular and inconsistent power supply,
which result in equipment damage and increased production costs.
*  Mining concems have to rely on diesel- powered generators for power so often that their
fiscal projections are frequently distorted, because power from generators is more
expensive.
* The project is thus welcome if it will ensure system reliability.
Association of Ghana Industries
Irregular power supply has been the bane of industrial concerns in Ghana, especially in
Accra and Kumasi. Therefore, if the project will improve power supply and efficiency then it
is good news.
34



8.0   Conclusions
Electric power supply is a major contributor to progress and development and forms a key part
of the Government of Ghana's Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy. Electricity is needed to
boost productivity and provide employment as well facilitating the provision of much needed
basic services such as education, water and health services for the people.
ECG is the main service provider in this sector and any inefficiency in its performance impacts
adversely on the overall national economic performance. The DSUP interventions are therefore
very much welcome by all the stakeholders concerned.
From the assessment carried out on the DSUP components, it can be seen that there are no
major environmental risks associated with the project implementation. The major works will be
carried out in the urban centres of Accra, Tema and Kumasi and there are no protected/
sensitive areas and/or species to be affected.
ECG has adequate resources within its structure and operational systems to deal with the
environmental and safety concerns that may arise during the construction and operational
phases.
It is therefore recommended that the DSUP should proceed and effective monitoring carried out
to ensure compliance with the various mitigation commitments.
35



Annexes
Annex 1 - Site Plans
Annex 2 - ECG Standards for Cables and Overhead Lines
Annex 3 - Route Maps
Annex 4 - Pictures
* -                                                               36



Annex 1 - Site Plans



i
I
i



C C~~~
STPLNFRPOOEECSUSAINST             A TEM
b--  \    a- S  - 
= \ < o  -   i- ''!
.... - .- ,, p .; T ,; ;~~o   -
SITE PLA FO PRPOE EC SUSATO SIT ASAMN .T.MA  .



, .             s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - 
S*.         .  ..~~
SIT  FO  PRPOE  Em   SUSATO  BOD-NS,K



Annex 2 - ECG Standards for Cables and Overhead Lines






Annex 2-1 TWO PHASE 120 sq. mm 11/33 KV POLE



*,r
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~v> .WCZAY _
Annex 2-2 TRENCH FOR 33 KV 3-CORE CABLE



-- - - - -  -   - --- -- --  -   - -- -   -- -  -- ---l
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~£Yrc- _OYir. __  - 
.  ,.  ,  .  g  .  ,/  .  _s,.  t-nJ  K 
Anne -2-3 -TRENC FOR 33 K
E:rC-F,C17- CF  lrs 
r~~ 
C^.  FU-TWs
Annex~~~~~~~~ 2_ TRNC FO___ SNL  OR  AL



S.
TrECnr pc'"7-, SCT0   r
--- ------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ "  7/7' -4---'-1  3< o'
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Ik  ADJV  :C, x .' 2 
Annex _-4 TRNC CRS SETO=O 1K n 3K



Annex 3- Route Maps



I



<,0A~~~~~~~~~~
! -                            -' I-''
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~4               V 2  '4   ' ' '.'. ..   }, ,\, , t, X ,,   ,  t,%,,
*  /                   r         .   . t    s~i~ ff  I 
*>,~~~ , . 
K                  P            I
FI.ISKETCH OF PROPOSED CIRCUIT ROUTES IN ACCRA



|FIG. 2 SIKETCH OF PROPOSED CIRCUIT ROUTE IN KUMASI|
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
( 
,/
r    '                                                   Af
f ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,                                   H
f  /  -..;                                        I E 1"'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
* -,Z C ->{}It - *-fl t > ,  ,!. -                                             *      t~



i               /-~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  i~~~~~~I
E          /~~~~~~~~
~~~~/
FIG. 3 SKETCH OF PROPOSED CIRCUIT ROUTE IN TEMA



l



Annex 4 - Pictures



I



PICTURES FROM VARIOUS LOCATIONS FOR THE DSUP
Mallam Substation, Accra                   Substation 'A - Odorkor. Accra
e [-; ~~~~F RiK
|  r.-i E i-  t.5             ;      I              J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A13'55
Substation 'B - Korle Bu, Accra               Substation 'H' - Achimota, Accra
-A 11_59
Substation 'G' - Makola, Accra
Some temporary and Permanent
Structures along the RoW
Proposed Site at Ashaiman, Tema           Proposed Site at Buadi - KNUST, Kumasi



I



