                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank



                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                         Report No:ICR0000320




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (IDA-26820 IDA-2682A)




                                                ON A

                                              CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 124.1 MILLION
                              (US$175.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                   GOVERNMENT OF GHANA

                                               FOR A

                                  THERMAL POWER PROJECT




                                        September 27, 2007




Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective 09/15/2007)

                Currency Unit = Cedis

              Cedis 1.00 = US$ 0.00011
              US$ 1.00 = Cedis 9,260.00


                    FISCAL YEAR

               January 1 ­ December 31



        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence Française de Développement
BADEA    Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDC      Commonwealth Development Corporation
CCGT     Combined Cycle Gas Turbine
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DSC      Debt Service Coverage
DSUP     Distribution System Upgrading Project
EC       Energy Commission
ECG      Electricity Company of Ghana
EF       Energy Foundation
EIB      European Investment Bank
ERP      Economic Recovery Program
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
FY       Fiscal year
HV/LV    High Voltage/Low Voltage
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ISR      Implementation Summary Report
KFAED    Kuwait Fund for Arab and Economic Development
KWh      Kilowatt hour
MW       Megawatts
MoE      Ministry of Energy
MoFEP    Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning
MoP      Memorandum of the President
MSSA     Management Support Services Agreement
O & M    Operation and Maintenance
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PURC     Public Utilities Regulatory Commission

         RoR                   Rate of Return
         SAP                   Staff Appraisal Report
         TK-1                  Takoradi Thermal Power Plant
         TK-2                  Takoradi International Power Company
         TTL                   Task Team Leader
         VALCO                 Volta Aluminum Company
         VRA                   Volta River Authority




                                   Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                                 Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                                  Sector Manager: S. Vijay Iyer
                             Project Team Leader: Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius
                                ICR Team Leader: Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius/Kofi-Boateng Agyen
                               Program Assistant: Lily Wong


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                                                   GHANA
                              THERMAL POWER PROJECT




                                               CONTENTS




A. Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (page 1 of 2)........................................................... 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 35
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 37
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 50
MAP IBRD No. 35689

A. Basic Information

                                                                      GH-Thermal Power
Country:                Ghana                   Project Name:
                                                                      SIL 5 (FY95)
Project ID:             P000926                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-26820,IDA-2682A
ICR Date:               08/01/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:             GOVT OF GHANA
Original Total
                        XDR 124.1M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 120.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Electricity Company of Ghana
Volta River Authority
Ministry of Energy
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
 European Investment Bank (EIB)
 Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
 Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)
 Kuwait Fund for Arab and Economic Development (KFAED)


B. Key Dates

    Process               Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/09/1993      Effectiveness:        11/17/1995        11/17/1995
Appraisal:            06/30/1993      Restructuring(s):                       02/27/2004
Approval:             02/16/1995      Mid-term Review:      05/15/1998        05/15/1998
                                      Closing:              06/30/2001        12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory         Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately             Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory         Performance:           Unsatisfactory



                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                  QAG Assessments
       Performance                 Indicators               (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                       Quality at Entry
                                                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
Problem Project at any                              Quality of             Moderately
                             Yes
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):     Unsatisfactory
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                                     Primary            Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                             Secondary         Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                       Primary            Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                    Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili            Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:            Mats Karlsson                         Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:              S. Vijay Iyer                         Mary Oakes Smith
Project Team Leader:         Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius               Carlos Algandona
ICR Team Leader:             Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius
ICR Primary Author:          Kofi-Boateng Agyen

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)


"The objectives of the proposed project are to: enable VRA to maintain the country's electricity
supply by providing the generating capacity to meet the electricity demand in Ghana; enhance
operational efficiency through transmission and generation systems improvements; moderate
demand growth through economic demand-side management programming; strengthen the
institutional capabilities of the power sector and of VRA by supporting its ongoing program of
institutional development to meet the requirements for the mid 1990s and beyond. The
institutional strengthening will include facilitation of distribution system improvements,
development of new regulatory arrangements for the sector, and measures to encourage private


                                                   ii

sector participation in the development of power supply; and to assure the financial viability of
Ghana's power sector."

Note, however, that the PDO in the DCA of June 30, 1995, as per Schedule 2 is as follows:

"The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) increase VRA's generating capacity to meet
increasing electricity demand, (b) improve VRA's operational efficiency and strengthen its
institutional capacity, and (c) improve the Borrower's management of power sector."

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

"The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase VRA's generating capacity to meet increasing
electricity demand, (b) improve VRA's operational efficiency and power sector financial
sustainability and strengthen its institutional capacity, (c) facilitate distribution improvement, (d)
strengthen institutional capabilities in the power sector, and (e) improve the Borrower's
management of the power sector."

The revision is as per amended DCA.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target        Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value           Values (from           Revised         Achieved at
                                                  approval             Target          Completion or
                                                 documents)            Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :                              Availability of Takoradi I (TK-1)
Value
quantitative or  0% (no power plant at       90%                                    72%
Qualitative)     Takoradi)

Date achieved 12/31/1994                     12/31/2006                             12/31/2006

Comments         TK-1 did not meet its targeted average monthly availability at project

(incl. %         completion. Since inception of operation, the plant's availability has been

achievement)     somewhat below 70% average monthly availability. Data is updated compared to
                 last ISR.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target        Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value           Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                  approval             Revised         Completion or
                                                 documents)        Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Improved financial and operational performance in VRA operations
                   Rate of return (ROR):

      Value                 6.0%                 ROR: 4.5%                             ROR: -4.67%;

  (quantitative    Debt Service Coverage          DSC: 1.5                              DSC: 0.08;

 or Qualitative)         (DSC): 3.5              Transmission                          Transmission
                    Transmission Losses:         Losses: 4.0%                          Losses 4.5%
                            5.0 %
Date achieved 12/31/1993                     12/31/2006                             12/31/2006
Comments         The ISR uses 2003 as baseline value. For the ICR it was found more applicable


                                                   iii

(incl. %        to use the project start as baseline value. The actual financials at project closure
achievement)    differ from the last ISR, as accounts were not fully finalized.
Indicator 2 :   Improved financial and operational performance in ECG operations

Value           ROR: -6.17;                 ROR: 3.8%;                          ROR: 2.09%;

(quantitative   DSC: 0.65;                  DSC:1.5;                            DSC:0.56;

or Qualitative) Distribution Losses: 26%    Distribution                        Distribution Losses:
                                            Losses: 21%                         24%
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments        The actual financials at project closure differ from the last ISR, as accounts were
(incl. %        not fully finalized. There has been some improvement on distribution losses, but
achievement)    ECG financials have not reached their target value.
Indicator 3 :   DSUP is being completed on schedule.
                First seven contracts
Value           awarded on 7/20/2004 (12
(quantitative   days after effectiveness    DSUP completed.                     DSUP completed.
or Qualitative) following project
                restructuring).
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Due to the appreciation of the SDR against the US$, an amount somewhat in

achievement)    excess of what was originally agreed could be deployed for equipment.

Indicator 4 :   ECG Management Support Services Agreement (MSSA) is completed.
Value           Draft ECG MSSA              MSSA process                        Request for
(quantitative                                                                   Proposal stage of
or Qualitative) prepared and discussed.     completed.                          ECG MSSA.
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments        Studies undertaken to complement quality of information for MSSA, funding of
(incl. %        contract by Government, and changes to MSSA structure have delayed
achievement)    completion.
Indicator 5 :   VRA's Debt Sales Ratio or Receivables days reduced.
Value
(quantitative   180 days                    122 days                            177 days
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        While VRA's Debt Sales ration has been slightly reduced, the value is far off its

achievement)    target.

Indicator 6 :   ECG's Debt Service Ratio or Receivables days reduced.
Value
(quantitative   185 days                    122 days                            138 days
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                    12/31/2006                          12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Data updated compared to last ISR. The receivables were reduced, and but did

achievement)    not reach the target value.




                                                  iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP                Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)
 1    06/30/1995        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       0.00
 2    04/05/1996        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       6.98
 3    06/20/1996        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                       7.23
 4    06/27/1997        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     53.31
 5    02/25/1998       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                    77.76
 6    07/06/1998       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                    94.58
 7    02/02/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    117.83
 8    03/30/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    117.83
 9    12/21/1999        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    133.78
10    04/13/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    134.04
11    12/18/2000        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    135.17
12    06/29/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    141.28
13    12/28/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    141.63
14    06/13/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    142.35
15    12/16/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    143.59
16    06/02/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    148.00
17    12/02/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    148.09
18    05/28/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    150.70
19    12/15/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    155.37
20    06/15/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    158.96

21    06/30/2005         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                   159.36

22    12/21/2005         Moderately            Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                   162.10

23    06/30/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             163.95
24    12/28/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             167.18

H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
                                                        As a result of an unexpected
                                                        drop in costs for completing the
                                                        project as appraised and
                                                        substantial compliance with

  02/27/2004        Y         S       S       149.67    project agreements, a request to
                                                        restructure and re-allocate the
                                                        savings was approved. The cost
                                                        savings facilitated the
                                                        maximization of project benefits
                                                        through investments to reduce


                                          v

                             ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring       Board   Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)         Approved                Restructuring
                 PDO Change                                        Key Changes Made
                              DO       IP        in USD
                                                millions
                                                             distribution losses in key heavy
                                                             load areas and improve the
                                                             quality of supply to the end
                                                             user.

If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                    Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

I. Disbursement Profile




                                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1      Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.       As a result of the prevailing global economic conditions and an apparent mismanagement
of the country's economy in the mid 70s to early 80s, Ghana - which once enjoyed a relatively
high living standard compared to other countries in the sub-region - was faced with a severe
economic downturn which resulted in substantial declines in income. The Government
consequently initiated an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983, under which it instituted
significant and wide-ranging policy reforms. By the early 90s, fiscal deficits were under control,
and the necessary incentives for growth had been created. However, in order to reach and sustain
the objectives of its development program, Ghana needed to strengthen the foundation it had built
for increased and long-term growth, and also ensure equitable distribution of the increased growth
levels across the country.

2.       This required the Government to maintain fiscal discipline and substantially increase
investments in physical infrastructure to support the envisaged economic expansion and continue
the reform of public enterprises to perform their functions more efficiently. As an integral part of
the injection of physical infrastructure, the provision of appropriate levels of reliable supply of
power was seen as fundamental to Ghana's continued progress in the diversification and growth
of its economy. The provision of additional power supply would also serve Government's goal of
increasing electrification rates in the rural areas and urban centers. In order to achieve this goal,
the Government had begun the process under the National Electrification Project. The World
Bank's Fifth and Sixth Power (P000953 and P000836) credits, whose objectives included: (i)
increased electricity access especially in the northern regions; (ii) retrofitting the Akosombo Dam
to improve efficiency of generation; and (iii) improved management and operations of the
distribution companies, were designed to help these electrification efforts.

3.       The Volta River Authority (VRA) owned the existing generation and transmission
capacity. It sold electricity to the Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG), the Volta Aluminium
Company (VALCO), local mining companies, Togo and Benin, and distributed electricity in
northern Ghana. At project preparation, about 24% of Ghana's population (estimated to be about
15 million) had access to electricity1. The main source of power, the Akosombo Dam, had a firm
capacity of 808 MW with sustainable average annual energy production of about 4,900 GWh.
Due to increasing demand, VRA produced around 6,400 GWh per year. By 1995, peak demand
and annual energy requirements were forecast to be about 1,000 MW and 6930 GWh. Demand
for power had thus outstripped available supply. Moreover, dam reservoir levels had been
depleted because more than the sustainable energy output had been produced over several years.
The combination of poor power sector management, over-drafting of the dam reservoir and a
concurrent drought leading to low inflows into the Akosombo Dam reservoir had also led to
severe power shortages. During years of drought (such as 1986/1987), the over-reliance on
hydropower entailed the need for load shedding, with serious consequences for the entire
economy due to unavailability of power.




1 In 2007, about 50% of Ghana's population has access to electricity.



                                                    1

4.       In order to meet the total demand in the coming years, the sector needed a combination of
improved reservoir management methods, improved sector management, initiation of demand-
side management and installation of additional capacity to complement the existing hydropower.
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for fiscal year 1995-1998 had identified shortages and
unreliable power as key constraints to growth in agriculture, mining, financial services, and
manufacturing, sectors forecasted to be the sources of growth in Ghana. Having noted these gaps,
the World Bank complemented Government's efforts by assisting in: (a) the identification of the
least-cost expansion strategy for the national power grid; (b) the development of a suitable power
sector regulatory framework; (c) the opening up of the generation market to independent power
producers; and (d) improvement of the internal efficiency of the commercial operations of
electricity distribution.

5.       The identified gaps were to be addressed under a new project. The Thermal Power
Project was therefore designed to respond to Ghana's economic growth program, through
increasing access to least-cost and reliable electricity and the removal of constraints to private
sector-led growth in the energy sector. The World Bank was supporting the rehabilitation and
extension of the transmission and distribution networks. By 1993 it was therefore logical to
complete the circle with investments in the generation sector and the required sector reforms to
complement the investments in Ghana's power sector undertaken through the Fifth Power Credit
(P000953), and the Sixth Power credit (P000836).

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.       "The objectives of the proposed project is to: enable VRA to maintain the country's
electricity supply by providing the generating capacity to meet the electricity demand in Ghana;
enhance operational efficiency through transmission and generation systems improvements;
moderate demand growth through economic demand-side management programming; strengthen
the institutional capabilities of the power sector and of VRA by supporting its ongoing program
of institutional development to meet the requirements for the mid 1990s and beyond. The
institutional strengthening will include facilitation of distribution system improvement,
development of new regulatory arrangements for the sector, and measures to encourage private
sector participation in the development of power supply; and to assure the financial viability of
Ghana's power sector."

7.       Note, however, that the PDO in the DCA of June 30, 1995, as per Schedule 2 is as
follows: "The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) increase VRA's generating capacity to
meet increasing electricity demand, (b) improve VRA's operational efficiency and strengthen its
institutional capacity, and (c) improve the Borrower's management of power sector." The project
was developed and brought to the World Bank's Board before the introduction of the results
framework methodology and selection of key performance indicators became Bank policy. The
original project formulation therefore did not have any key indicators. Following Credit
restructuring in 2004, however, baseline indicators were introduced as part of the bi-annual
monitoring exercise through the ISR. They were however, not reflected in the amended
Development Credit Agreement.

1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.       When the project was restructured in 2004 to include a distribution component, the PDO
as per amended DCA was revised as follows: "The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase
VRA's generating capacity to meet increasing electricity demand, (b) improve VRA's operational
efficiency and power sector financial sustainability and strengthen its institutional capacity, (c)


                                                   2

facilitate distribution improvement, (d) strengthen institutional capabilities in the power sector,
and (e) improve the Borrower's management of the power sector." In addition, a set of key results
indicators was endorsed. By 2004, the notion of results framework and results indicators had
been developed as part of the Bank's proactive initiatives on project management. The following
performance indicator was thus incorporated in project documents when the project was
restructured in February 2004:

· Percent availability of new generating capacity (330 MW Combined cycle plant);

9.       The following indicators were designated as intermediate outcome indicators:

· Improved financial and operational performance in VRA operations as measured by: (a)
    annual rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation; (b) debt service coverage; (c)
    transmission system losses; and (d) debt-sales ratio or receivables days reduced.
· Improved financial and operational performance in ECG operations as measured by: (a)
    annual rate of return on average net fixed assets in operation; (b) debt service coverage; (c)
    distribution system losses; (d) debt-sales ratio or receivables days reduced.
· Distribution System Upgrading Project/(DSUP) is completed on schedule.
· ECG Management Support Services Agreement/(MSSA) is completed.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

10.      The project's main beneficiaries were the VRA and the Ministry of Energy. The ECG
was added as beneficiary when the project was restructured in 2004. Following their
establishment, the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission/(PURC) and the Energy Commission
(EC) also became beneficiaries of the project. Implicitly, the beneficiaries were Ghana's
population at large who benefited from improved energy services.

1.5      Original Components (as approved)

11.      Component 1 - Generation and associated transmission and institutional
development: (i) The construction at Takoradi of a 330 MW combined-cycle gas turbine
(CCGT) power plant, consisting of two combustion turbine generators of 100 MW each, and a
heat recovery boiler and a steam turbine generator to produce an additional 100 MW; (ii) 360 km
of single and double circuit 161 kV transmission lines and necessary sub-stations; (iii) consulting
and engineering services to manage and supervise the project from design to commissioning,
managerial and technical services for the operation and maintenance of the power station and
technical assistance for the institutional development of VRA to manage plant.

12.      Component 2 - Power sector reform: Support to the Ministry of Energy for the
development and establishment of suitable regulatory arrangements and policies to attract private
participation in the power sector. Following studies undertaken, the Public Utilities Regulatory
Commission (PURC) and the Energy Commission (EC) were established by Acts of Parliament
in 1997, namely Act 538 and Act 541 respectively. The PURC, under Act 538, is responsible for
electricity tariffs while the EC has responsibility for regulating the technical aspects of the
electricity supply industry.

13.      Component 3 - Electricity demand-side management: Development and
implementation of market-based policy instruments, institutional arrangements, and program


                                                  3

specific interventions to promote and sustain electricity demand management through
improvements in energy use by consumers.

14.      Component 4 - VRA's institutional development: support for VRA's program of
institutional development and upgrading of: (i) its capabilities with training and technical
assistance through equipping VRA's Akuse Training School; (ii) development of training
programs and technical assistance to upgrade VRA's capabilities in thermal power generation
operations and management; and (iii) the environmental monitoring training required for the
implementation of the project's Environmental Impact Mitigating Program.

1.6      Revised Components

15.      The original components were not formally revised. However, the project savings
amounting to about US$15 Million were re-allocated to a new component, the Distribution
System Upgrade Project (DSUP). The latter targeted improvements to the distribution system
through (i) investments in sub-transmission and High Voltage/Low Voltage (HV/LV) networks,
(ii) training for ECG staff in tariff formulation; and (iii) treasury management which were
required to improve reliability of supply. The Board approved the revision to the components in
February 2004, and US$15.0 million was reallocated to ECG for these activities. Further US$8.0
million of the original Credit amount was re-allocated to VRA for reinforcement of its
transmission network and construction of additional transmission lines for evacuating power from
the Takoradi Thermal power complex.

1.7      Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

16.      Three significant changes are worth mentioning:

17.      Technical design changes during implementation: The project's original design of the
generation equipment envisioned: (i) the suggested "once through" cooling system to dissipate
waste heat from the generators was replaced by the installation of a cooling tower system, as a
result of the concern by financiers that the waste water discharge may impact on marine life. The
concern was related to raising the temperature around the area of the outlet to higher levels,
which in turn could affect the fishing population and thus fisheries in the vicinity of the plant; (ii)
the building for housing the combustion turbines, which was useful for preservation purposes,
was also not installed initially, but was retrofitted later by VRA. These design changes were
effected in line with best practice engineering at the time. However, an expert review of plant
operations (2006) suggests that the plant's availability may have been negatively impacted by
these variations in the original design.

18.      Demand-side management: Two years into the implementation phase, the Ministry of
Energy, in accordance with the Government's policy of building the domestic private sector's
capacity and encouraging them to participate in the development of the sector, transferred the
promotion of energy efficiency programs to the non-governmental Energy Foundation (EF). The
Ministry established EF in association with the major business associations in Ghana and USAID
in November 1997. Only 10% of the original allocation was disbursed, and the remainder was re-
allocated to the Power sector reforms component.

19.      Closing date extensions: It is worth mentioning that at the time of the original closing
date (June, 30, 2001), while the construction of the power plant and transmission lines were
essentially complete. The `soft components such as policy reform were taking much longer to
implement. With no other ongoing operations in the sector to maintain the reform dialogue, the


                                                    4

first extension seemed logical. The extension coincided with the initiation of the Poverty
Reduction (PRSCs) era in Ghana, which then served as the key vehicle for re-instituting dialogue
on difficult power sector issues which impacted on macroeconomic stability.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

20.      The project's overall Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry is rated moderately
satisfactory.

21.      Overall project preparation was thorough and comprehensively reviewed the basic
framework conditions. The relatively long period between the end of appraisal and Board
approval was a result of the Bank team's insistence for government to institute measures to ensure
the plant's construction followed standard operating procedures and that the country's framework
conditions were adequate for financially sound operation of plant. With respect to the former, the
Bank thus assisted Government to put in place a Design Review Board; and an Operation Review
Board. These two were comprised of international experts and were tasked with assisting VRA in
monitoring progress, mitigating anticipated delays, providing technical advice. The time it took
to put these boards in place may have contributed to the delay in getting Board approval after
appraisal was completed. With respect to the second, the Bank insisted on necessary tariff
increases to be effected, which was a condition for submitting the project to the World Bank's
Board for approval. This is the main explanation for the delay between project appraisal in 1993
and project approval in 1995.

22.      Country Context: During project preparation, the World Bank supported investments in
Ghana's power sector under the National Electrification (P000953), and the Sixth Power credits
(P000836). Lessons learned during their implementation were incorporated and included: (i) the
need to improve the utilities' commercial practices; (ii) timely approval of cost-recovery tariffs
through reduction of government's influence on tariff-setting; and (iii) availability of counterpart
funds were appropriately incorporated in the design. The PDOs were consistent with the FY96-
98 Ghana CAS2 and the Government's economic program, a key element of which was the
reform of the public enterprises sector and increased infrastructural investments to remove
constraints to growth.

23.      Integrated Energy Sector Strategy: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, 1993) and
Memorandum of the President (MOP, 2004) provided accurate overviews of the power sector and
identified adequate options for meeting the sector's priorities. With the assistance of the World
Bank the Government updated Ghana's Power Sector Master Plan and articulated its strategy for
the improvement of the energy sector in a document titled the "Energy and Ghana's Socio-
Economic Development". The project's design was based on this and the World Bank's 1992
Energy Sector Review, and the 1993 "The World Bank's Role in the Electric Power Sector"
reports. These documents had identified Ghana's energy sector priorities to ensure a financially
viable, efficiently-managed sector capable of delivering a reliable and economic supply of




2 The CAS had among its objectives "accelerating action on poverty reduction", "restoring and
maintaining macroeconomic stability", and "fostering private sector development through the provision of
enhanced infrastructural services".



                                                   5

electricity and introducing private sector participation to the power sector. There were also
extensive studies covering tariff policy, power plant technology, and environmental impacts
whose findings were integrated into the design of the project. The project was thus designed on
the basis of a solid background analysis, an adequate and inclusive participatory process on the
part of both Government and the World Bank, and due incorporation of lessons learned by the
Bank from previous experiences in Ghana.

24.       Regulation of the Energy Sector: The project identified delays in the mobilization of
resources from within the sector because of insufficiently high tariffs, which did not cover the full
cost of operation. It was well recognized that the introduction of thermal power would lead to
even higher costs of operation, thus increasing the need to establish fully cost reflective tariffs
from the outset. The tariff issue was thoroughly assessed by the joint Bank-Borrower team by a
detailed tariff study (1992), which built on an earlier study (1986), which introduced Long-Run
Marginal Costing (LRMC) methodology to Ghana's energy sector. To mitigate this risk,
Government - which was the tariff-setting entity - in a first step agreed to increase average tariffs
schedule by 76 percent (ahead of the project's presentation to the World Bank's Board in January
1995), and in a second step revised its tariff policy by setting up an independent regulator.
Necessary levels of tariff increases had been determined at project appraisal in June 1993. But
Government only fully endorsed this tariff increase in January 1995, which then paved the way
for Board approval of the project also in January 19953.

25.       Project Scope and Objective: The objectives were relevant and clear. The components
were appropriate and clearly linked to the achievement of the project's developmental objectives.
But no key performance indicators were identified during appraisal, as this was not practice at the
time.

26.       Suitability of Implementing Agencies: The implementing agencies were very
experienced in project development and implementation of Bank-financed projects, and VRA was
rated as a well-run hydro utility, the Ministry of Energy was experienced in coordinating and
implementing development activities and ECG had previously satisfactorily implemented both
internally and externally funded projects. Although VRA was rated highly, the combustion
turbines were a new technology to Ghana and their ability to oversee its design, construction, and
efficient operation and management constituted a significant risk to achieving project
developmental objectives. The matter was subject to lengthy discussions during project
preparation. As an alternative during preparation the attempt was made for IFC to attract a
private developer to sponsor the project. However, no interested and qualified private party could
be found, given the difficult framework conditions in Ghana's energy sector at the time.

27.       To hedge against the risk of VRA's lack of experience with thermal power, the following
measures were incorporated: (i) thorough background work to identify an appropriate technology;
(ii) institution of an Operation and Maintenance (O & M) contract for management and
supervision of the project from design to commissioning of the combustion turbines; (iii) the
institution of a Design Review Board and an Operation Review Board comprised of experts in
combustion turbine technology to respectively provide an independent and objective review and
evaluation of the construction works; and monthly review of performance of the O & M
contractor; and (iv) training of VRA staff to take over the O & M of the plant after contract
completion. Given the significant risk posed by the introduction of the new technology,
substantial provisions should have been made for longer-term expert assistance on the design,



3 For a complete overview of tariff schedule adjustments and electricity tariff increases see Annex 1-7 and
Annex 1-8 of the project's Staff Appraisal Report (January 18, 1995, Report No.12252-GH).



                                                     6

commissioning, supervision of the thermal plant and training of VRA staff. Pressure as a result of
the energy crisis Ghana faced during the period the plant was under construction contributed to
VRA's seeming rush to commission the plant into service and subsequent acceptance of sub-
quality products which affected plant performance.

28.      Thermal Power Plant: The decision to use a cooling tower system instead of the "once
through" system approved at concept design for the combustion turbines should have been based
on a more thorough analysis. The failure of the cooling tower system to function effectively as a
result of construction defects may have led to the ingestion of sodium-laden mist into the
generation equipment contributing to the rust problems the plant has faced. While the switch to a
cooling tower system may not necessarily have been a wrong decision because other countries
used similar systems that are known to be performing well, adequate provision should have been
made in this case to assure proper construction. An independent review of the plant's operations
carried out in 2006 emphasized the need for the Bank to ensure technical decisions "with regard
to addressing environmental issues based on sound technical reasoning and value engineering."
We were unable to locate any documentation on the analysis underlying the switch from the once
through system discharging into the Gulf of Guinea planned at concept design.

29.      Procurement (recruitment of main consultant for thermal plant, and packaging):
Given the specialized nature of the power plant's construction, commissioning into service and its
management and operations, a different selection method instead of the QCBS method may have
been more appropriate, to select the project consultant who was overseeing the project contractor.

2.2      Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

30.      The project's overall Implementation is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

31.      Component 1 - Generation and Associated Transmission and Institutional
Development: implementation of this component was marked by: (i) delays of construction and
completion of power plant; and (ii) challenges regarding performance of power plant.

32.      Delays of construction and completion: the contract for construction had stipulated
that the first turbine be operational by July 1997 and the last turbine by September 1998.
However, the completion of this component was delayed by 781 days corresponding to somewhat
more than two years. Only by November 2000 had the 330 MW combined cycle plant, been fully
commissioned and commenced operation (see table further below).

33.      The main causes of the delays in the implementation of contract design and construction
of two combustion turbine generator included: (i) changes in the joint venture partnership of the
main contractor General Electric (GE) and Nouma Cimi Montubi (NCM) due to NCM's financial
difficulties and eventual bankruptcy; (ii) time required for replacing NCM with Stone & Webster
(S & W), who took over the work from NCM; (iii) poor project coordination between GE and S
& W and lack of on-site inspections; (iv) delays in resolving conflicts and lack of expedient
conflict resolution mechanism; (v) late issuance of GE civil engineering drawings for approval
prior to construction. The delays in the completion of the contract for the design and installation
of steam turbine generator and the required auxiliary equipment were identified as (vi) GE's
transfer of the Heat Recovery Steam Generators (HRSGs) and the Distributed Control System
(DCS) scope into the scope of work of S & W without VRA pre-approval; (ii) GE's award of
HRSG contract without VRA approval; (iii) late award of civil works contract and of the cooling
water sea pipeline's contract; and (iv) incorrect phasing of the steam turbine generator and
excessive steam turbine vibrations. Despite VRA's high performance, as evaluated during the

                                                  7

initial assessment, this list of problems also points to significant deficiencies in project
management, operations and management of the plant by VRA and its representatives.

34.      The delays in construction and completion of the power plant delayed the envisaged
thermal complementation to hydro power in Ghana. Indeed, the deep energy and economic crisis
of 1997/1998, which was caused by a hydrological drought, may have been moderated if the
thermal plant had been available on time.

35.      All other generation-associated investment such as the 161 kV Prestea-Obuasi
transmission line, the marine fuel pipeline for supplying fuel to the plant and associated sub-
stations were completed in line with their projected schedules.

36.      The total cost to complete the plant was about US$217 Million, a 7% cost overrun.
While this overrun seems reasonable, the causes of the cost overrun point to deficient project
management in the review of design drawings, acceptance of changes to original designs,
inspection and acceptance of delivered equipment and work undertaken by firms engaged under
the Credit.

Take-over Dates

 Turbine Generator           Contract Stipulated Date           Actual Date           Delays (days)
Combustion Turbine         July 15, 1997                    December 27, 1997               162
Generator no. 1
Combustion Turbine         September 9, 1997                January 27, 1998                138
Generator no. 2
Steam Turbine              September 9, 1998                November 10, 2000               781
Generator

37.      Performance of power plant: the overall performance of power plant since inception of
operation in 2000 has been below the market reference best practice. This has been attributed to
construction defects, inadequate supervision, poor plant operations and management, lack of
funds to procure fuel for firing the plant and a dearth of the appropriate expertise in VRA. To
address the poor performance, a number of actions have been identified under a Performance
Enhancement Strategies study that was financed by the project and have upon implementation led
to improvements in plant availability. The lessons learned by VRA under the implementation of
this component combined with private sector experience introduced by Government, through a
"single-responsibility, date-certain, turnkey EPC contract" with a top-line contractor has been
instrumental in the relatively trouble-free performance of the Takoradi II (TK-2) plant. This
component is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

38.      Component 2 - Power Sector Reform: The technical assistance to initiate sector
reforms was well implemented by the Ministry of Energy. As a result, a relatively robust
regulatory framework for the power sector was instituted with the promulgation of two laws to set
up: (i) the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) as an independent tariff-setting
agency; and (ii) the Energy Commission (EC), which licenses sector operators. The project
provided extensive capacity building to staff of these regulatory agencies, which has enabled the
PURC to finalize electricity rate setting guidelines and implement a transitional plan for
electricity rate increases for 2001-2004. In line with the policy to increase tariffs to economic
levels PURC started approving tariff levels in September 1998, and until about 2004, the levels
had risen by about 350% and 250% for residential and non-residential customers, respectively.
While inflation rates have slowed in Ghana, rising global oil prices have led Government to
interfere in the PURC's work of ensuring the adjustment of tariffs on a timely basis. A
consequence is the 2006-2007 energy crisis, as the power utilities face immense difficulties in

                                                  8

raising the commensurate financing for capital investments and working capital. The project
assisted the Energy Commission (EC) to develop licenses and standards for the sector and
introduced a framework for private sector participation in the generation and distribution sub-
sectors. Support for staff training and advisory services to Ministry of Energy for the continued
implementation of the power sector reform agenda were effective initially. The creation of the
EC however depleted the Ministry's staff and marginalized its function.

39.      The sector reforms also sought to attract private investment to the power sector, and there
has been a private investment in generation under a public-private arrangement which has
resulted in the establishment of the TK-2 plant, however, nationwide, the scope has been limited.
Efforts to introduce private sector management in distribution since 2001 has not materialized
due to various reasons, but mainly as a result of Government wavering on implementing its own
policy. This component is rated moderately satisfactory on the basis of the establishment of the
PURC and EC and the roles they have played in sector reform.

40.      Component 3 - Electricity Demand-Side Management: The Project successfully
financed: (i) a Monitoring & Targeting Energy Management Scheme to assist industry's energy
management capabilities; (ii) an Industrial Energy Assessment Center at the Kwame Nkrumah
University of Science & Technology (KNUST) where training and equipment were provided for
energy management and industrial process improvement advisory services to industry; (iii)
energy audits for 12 large users including government agencies and private enterprises leading to
the identification of average consumption patterns and the installation of occupancy sensors to
help ensure efficient use of power. The Ministry of Energy has ensured sustainability of this
component through its collaboration with the local private sector and USAID to establish the
Energy Foundation, a non-governmental organization, whose main function is the creation of
public awareness on efficient use of energy. This component cannot be rated against its PDO, as
insufficient data are available (see section 5.1 on project files).

41.      Component 4 - VRA Institutional Development: Under this component the project
supported VRA's program of institutional development. Particular emphasis was given to the
building of an Environment Impact Mitigating Program, as recommended by environmental
assessment undertaken in the context of project planning for Takoradi Thermal Power Plant.
Training evidently also included thermal power plant operation and management. In late 2007,
VRA's environmental department is considered as the leading department in this area of any
power utility in West Africa. The Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) produced by VRA
are being used as best practice documents throughout Sub-Saharan Africa. Environmental
safeguards have been fully mainstreamed into VRA's operations and reflect international best
practice4. Similarly, the training of thermal power plant operation and management has been
successful. This is reflected in the fact that VRA was able to undertake its own root-cause
analysis and implement a comprehensive plant rehabilitation plan. Moreover, VRA is in the
process of completing the construction of its own 125 MW thermal power plant at Tema without
any substantial help from outside. For these reasons this component is rated as satisfactory.

42.      Component 5 - Distribution System Upgrade (DSUP): The targeted investments in
sub-transmission and distribution investments envisaged under this component have been
completed by ECG according to schedule. The improvements in reliability of supply in the areas
targeted under this project have contributed to a decrease in distribution system losses from 26%



4 In 2007 Ghana's energy sector has also been selected as a pilot country for OP/BP 4.00, "Piloting the Use
of Borrower Systems to Address Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues in Bank-Supported Projects",
because it is considered as one of the well advanced countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.



                                                     9

(2003) to 24% (end 2006). However, the targeted reduction in distribution losses as per
intermediate outcome indicators was 21%. Given the limited size of investments, this target has
to be viewed as unrealistic. Moreover, it is unlikely that the 2% actual reduction of losses can be
attributed to the project. Finally, the Management Services and Supply Agreement (MSSA) -
another intermediate outcome indicator - was not put in place, despite completion of all necessary
upstream work, because changes of ECG management in mid-2006 led to improved operations,
and in mid-2007 the MSSA was not longer deemed necessary by Government. It is unclear why
implementation of the MSSA was chosen as a performance indicator was chosen for the project,
because the MSSA was funded by the Swiss Government under a distinct and separate project.
The overall implementation of this component is rated moderately satisfactory.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

43.      While the PDOs were generally clear and relevant to Ghana's economic growth program,
during appraisal, no baselines were taken. This reflected Bank practice at the time, but could
have been better sharpened during the restructuring of the project. The VRA, however, has kept
up-to date information since project effectiveness in quarterly reports detailing progress on
financial management and procurement, safety, plant availability, etc. The information has been
utilized to monitor the impact of the plant operations on the community and the Ghana's power
sector development program.

44.      The baselines and measures of key performance indicators were formally included during
project restructuring in 2004. The performance indicators for the ECG component could have
been enhanced by measuring the level of distribution losses in the areas targeted under this
project for end of project comparisons. VRA, ECG and the Ministry's respective M & E
capacities have been strengthened through the provision of equipment, including IT systems,
improved staffing levels and relevant training to design, and collect key performance data at
regular intervals in order to effectively monitor and evaluate all aspects of company and sector
performance. The capacity of the VRA has been sufficiently strengthened to the extent that they
have developed a robust M & E system which complements its operational efficiencies and
provides real-time information to key stakeholders. The Ministry of Energy is currently relied
upon to feed sector M & E indicators to the National Development Planning Commission
(NDPC), which is in charge of Ghana's development planning.

2.4      Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

45.      There were no major deviations from key safeguard and fiduciary issues and the
implementing agencies were generally in compliance with Bank requirements throughout
implementation.

46.      Environmental Safeguards: The main environmental issues as identified during the
design phase included: (i) the effect of spent cooling water from the plant on marine life and
consequent effects on the fishing industry near the plant site; (ii) air quality impacts; (iii) effects
of loss of site land on a handful of families who farmed at subsistence levels; and (iv) potential oil
spillage. The project introduced new technology into Ghana and the operators needed to be
vigilant to ensure any negative environmental impacts arising out of the plants' operations were
mitigated. Environmental management has been satisfactory, implemented as agreed in the
environmental mitigation plan as reviewed and approved at project inception. The VRA's
environmental unit was strengthened and upgraded and is today at the forefront in Ghana on
environmental practices. In partnership with the Environmental Protection Agency, it has



                                                 10

instituted environmental safeguard practices which have led to IDA's acceptance of some aspects
of Ghana's environmental systems as equivalent to IDA's.

47.      Resettlement: The project did not require any resettlement of households, but
appropriate compensation was paid for loss of land for transmission line right of way, and to a
small number of families who were farming at subsistence levels near the plant site. The VRA
did set up clinics, built community schools, a market and a cold storage facility for the fishing
industry, and constructed paved roads linking towns and villages in the plant vicinity.

48.      Financial Management and Procurement: The VRA and ECG generally kept good
records on financial management, procurement and disbursement practices. Their financial audits
were provided and on-time in line with the DCA and issues raised by their external auditors were
addressed on time. However, a number of issues need to be noted: (i) in the context of the
construction of the Takoradi 1 power plant, VRA should have notified the Bank of several
changes. Particular reference is made in this context for VRA to have notified the Bank with
regard to addition to the contracts for gas and steam turbines in lieu of reducing the contract
values by corresponding amounts of liquidated damages; (ii) A post procurement review (2007)5
of contracts awarded under the DSUP component revealed that in an apparent effort to expedite
project implementation, a number of large goods and equipment packages were procured using
the shopping method instead of ICB. There was no evidence of mis-procurement by the
Borrower as the Bank provided required non-objections. The objective to save time through the
use of shopping was however not realized (see also section 5.1(b)).

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

49.      The project has financed a power station enhancement strategies study which provided
recommendations addressing improvements to O & M arrangements and institutional capacity
deficiencies. VRA has since 2005 implemented these recommendations, which have led to
improvements in plant availability and the amounts of electricity dispatched. In order to ensure a
high level of plant availability going forward, the study has prescribed the allocation of additional
financial resources to assure the availability of critical and long-lead spare parts, contracting of
supplementary technical expertise, and continued staff training. The VRA indicated having
consequently allocated funds and instituted plans to keep the plant functioning at a high level,
however, this was before its recent financial problems.

50.      In order to sustain sector reforms initiated under this project, the independence of the
PURC needs to be assured through: (i) targeted capacity building of the staff and commissioners,
and revision of the legislation establishing PURC to allow for an independent source for funding
its operations; (ii) strengthening of the EC and the Ministry of Energy to improve, among others,
updates of the national strategic energy plan, to include utilization of alternative energy sources
and the institution of a robust regulatory framework to attract independent power producers.
With the on-going effort to curtail power deficits, the diffused and unclear roles and
responsibilities of sector agencies could lead to future sector problems unless Government takes




5 World Bank/Procurement Department (2007). Ghana Thermal Project/ DSUP. Procurement Post
Review of 7 (No.) Goods Contracts and 1 (No.) Consulting Contract. Credit No. Cr 2682-1-GH, Project
ID: P000926. June 22, 2007, Accra, Ghana.



                                                  11

steps to clarify state sector agencies' roles and responsibilities. The introduction of targeted
subsidies to low-income consumers of electricity must be re-instituted in view of the high cost of
power in a high thermal/low hydro generation regime. Also to further assure financial viability of
the utilities, the pace of promoting energy efficiency should be increased and performance-based
management practices, which have been discussed for over 10 years, implemented. The Ghana
Energy Development & Access project and the on-going budget-support program (Poverty
Reduction Strategy Credit series) should serve as platforms for continued dialogue with
Government for sustaining sector reforms and strengthening the institutional capacities of the
power sector agencies.

51.      Follow-up activities: The TK-1 plant's turbines are to be converted to use natural gas
which involves among others, the design, fabrication, and construction of a gas pipeline from
Nigeria to the Takoradi power station and conversion of the turbines to receive natural gas.
The lessons learned and experiences gained during the implementation phase of this project will
come in useful in the supervision of the gas turbine conversion contract. It is imperative that
continued oversight by properly trained staff and sufficient resources are made available to
mitigate the risk of failure. The VRA have entered into a take-or-pay arrangement with the West
African Gas Pipeline Company, and once the gas is available it would require that the plant is
operated at an optimal level in order to keep the costs to operate the plant low.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

52.      The project's developmental objectives continue to be highly relevant to Ghana's
development priorities as detailed in its Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and the Bank's CAS.
Specifically, both strategies focus on maintaining macroeconomic stability and increasing
production and employment, through the removal of constraints to private sector-led growth. The
project clearly identified improvements in power supply as key to growth.

3.2      Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

53.      The project partially achieved its developmental objectives as summarized below:

(a) To enable VRA maintain the country's electricity supply by providing the generating
capacity to meet the electricity demand in Ghana: The project partially met this objective, and
with a significant delay. VRA installed the envisaged additional generation capacity ­ a 330 MW
combined cycle thermal plant (which supplied 17% of power supply in 2006). An additional 220
MW open cycle generation plant financed under a Public-Private Partnership arrangement
(facilitated by regulatory framework set up under the project) has also been built. The associated
marine fuel pipeline, sub-stations and transmission lines financed under the credit have been used
for evacuating power from the plant and for trade with power utilities in 3 neighboring countries
(Côte d'Ivoire, Togo and Benin). There have been several instances where plant availability and
the quality of performance have been below industry levels, leading to remedies being put in
place to improve and sustain plant operations. Nonetheless, when electricity supply from the
hydro plant has gone below projected levels, the thermal plant has provided increased supply and
complemented the hydro sources. The additional generation capacity suffered installation delays
and hence power supply from the plant into the national grid was unavailable for long periods
even after the last unit was commissioned in December 2000. However, its availability has


                                                  12

improved. The plant's average monthly availability has increased from a low of 47-52% in 2000-
2001 to a high of 62-78% in 2004-2005; by 2006, it had risen to 88%. The plant's improved
availability and consequent dispatch into the national grid has contributed to attenuating the
severity of load-shedding experienced in Ghana since mid-2006 as demand growth has
outstripped the rate of increase in generation capacity.

(b) Enhancing operational efficiency through transmission and generation systems
improvement. The project partially met this objective. VRA enhanced its operational efficiency
through the 500 km transmission lines (compared to the 360 km end of project target) and
substations constructed and utilized in evacuating power from the plant and facilitating electricity
trade with Côte d'Ivoire, Togo and Benin and allowed for relative system reliability while
maintaining transmission losses at acceptable levels, currently around 4.5%. At project inception,
the baseline transmission system loss was 5%. In 2007, however, VRA's finances are in disarray,
because tariffs are below cost recovery, VRA has lost over US$300 Million over the last 2 years,
and has been unable to finance the full cost of fuel purchases required to operate its thermal
plants. As a result VRA was unable to achieve the targeted rate of return and other key financial
performance targets.

(c) Moderating demand growth through economic demand-side management programming.
This objective was partially achieved. The project has enabled EC and Ministry of Energy to
initiate steps to moderate demand growth through legislation and public awareness creation.
While the component was discontinued in 1997 after EF was set up by the Ministry of Energy,
business associations and the USAID to undertake demand-side management and energy
efficiency promotions. At the time it was discontinued, the project had assisted in undertaking
energy audits for at least 29 private and public enterprises and created access to credit
arrangements for industries in the procurement of energy efficient electrical equipment. The EC
has developed legislation mandating the use of energy efficient electrical equipment and have
carried out a study that point to savings of over 100 MW during peak hours if end users switch to
using compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs). The government has committed to financing the
replacement cost for all ministries, government departments and agencies.

(d) Strengthen the institutional capabilities of the power sector and of VRA by supporting
its ongoing program of institutional development to meet the requirements for the mid-
1990s and beyond. This objective was partially achieved as the project helped Government set
up a regulatory framework aimed at attracting private investment into the sector, including the
establishment of the PURC, and the EC. However recent decisions by Government to absorb
tariff increases awarded by PURC have seriously undermined the financial viability of the sector.
At the current bulk supply tariff VRA is unable to cover the fuel cost of running the Takoradi
thermal plant and relies on Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning to pay for fuel to run the
plant. VRA has incurred a massive financial loss of US$160 million in 2006 and has
accumulated major payment arrears to its suppliers, and its financial situation continued to
deteriorate in 2007. There has been only a single private investment in the power sector
between1995-2006 and the sector's current financial disequilibrium makes it hard to attract new
and additional private investment in generation. The key to sustaining the relatively modest gains
achieved under the sector reforms lies in Government resolving to letting the PURC operate
independently, PURC formulating tariffs that target subsidies to low-income consumers, and
approving electricity tariff levels to keep pace with the rising cost of generation.

(e) Facilitation of distribution system improvements. The project did not achieve the targeted
reduction in losses from 26% to 21%. Sub-transmission and distribution network have, however,
been improved and have led to reliable supply and decreases in distribution losses in targeted
areas such as Accra, Tema and Kumasi, the major load centers in Ghana. The distribution system
losses were reduced to about 24% as at end 2006 despite significant load shedding during the last


                                                 13

six months of 2006. This component did not meet the set financial targets. However, the
achieved targets were an improvement over the baseline figures. ECG has turned modest profits
over the last few years. However, the capital, treasury and management investments made under
the project are yet to be reflected in significant reductions in non-technical losses. Efforts to
introduce an MSSA arrangement into ECG operations are stalled.

3.3      Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

54.      At appraisal, an economic justification of the 330 MW combined cycle plant at Takoradi
(TK-1) was undertaken in the context of its role as part of a least-cost system expansion plan for
the power sector. Costs included the capital and operating costs of the proposed sequence of
plants, as well as transmission and distribution costs. Benefits were based on an estimation of
customer willingness to pay for incremental electricity supply. Overall, the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of the investment program for the entire power system was calculated to be 18%.

55.      Apart from the addition of a 220 MW simple cycle plant (TK-2 brought on line in 2000),
none of the planned additional generation capacities have been realized. It is unlikely, however,
that the decision to delay capacity additions will continue into the future. In fact, construction is
already under way on a new diesel plant at Tema and on a hydroelectric project at Bui, and
negotiations are ongoing with the private sector for the construction of additional combined cycle
thermal plants. Once additional capacity is available, it is likely that the role of the T1 plant will
change, especially if some of the new plants have lower operating costs. Hydrology will also
play a role, since the bulk of the capacity in the system will continue to be provided by the dams
at Akosombo and Kpong. Consequently, the ex-post evaluation of the Takoradi Thermal project
focused on the incremental contribution of the power plant to the supply of electricity during the
period from 1996 (when construction commenced) to 2006 (the latest year with actual supply
data). A residual value of the plant at the end of the evaluation period was estimated based on an
assumed 20 year life.

56.      Briefly, the evaluation looked at the differences in terms of investment, operating costs,
and amount of electricity supplied between the with-project scenario (which included TK-1, the
220 MW of single-cycle generation at TK-2, and Akosombo and Kpong hydroelectric plants),
and a without-project scenario which included only the TK-2 plant and the hydro-electric
facilities. Where demand exceeded supply, generation at TK-2 was assumed to increase to fill the
gap up to the limits of its capacity. The reduction in unserved demand attributable to the TK-1
plant was valued at the economic value to customers assumed at the time of appraisal (viz. 8
UScents/kWh for high voltage customers, 8.5 UScents for residential, and 11.6 UScents for non-
residential), less the fully allocated costs of transmission and distribution. These values were
escalated to take into account real increases in the costs of petroleum-based fuels over the
evaluation period. The net result of the differential analysis was an estimated ERR for the TK-1
project of 26.4%.

57.     Extending the analysis into the future would undoubtedly improve the ERR of the project,
since the average willingness to pay for power supply exceeds the marginal cost of generation at
the TK-1 plant. However, the analysis becomes more complicated as additional plants are added
to the system, and it is difficult, without detailed simulation analysis, to predict the likely future
dispatch of the TK-1 plant. Arguably, as one of the most efficient plants in the system, it is likely
to be base-loaded (assuming that transmission constraints are overcome). However, new plants
might also adopt more efficient technologies, which could relegate the T1 plant to a lesser role.
Given the highly satisfactory returns to date, it was considered unnecessary to extend the analysis
into more speculative realms.

                                                   14

58.      The FRR of the project to date can only be viewed in the context of the total system.
Since tariffs for bulk supply are established on the basis of estimated average costs of generation,
the incremental revenue from the TK-1 plant is unlikely to cover incremental costs in a hydro-
dominated system. If the value of the incremental output were based solely on the average bulk
tariff (excluding Valco), the FRR would be the same as the ERR at the bulk supply tariff ­ i.e.
3.7%. This compares unfavorably with the 8% on-lending rate for the IDA credit under the terms
of the loan.

59.      Because electricity tariffs in Ghana are set by the regulator, it is impossible to specify
what the average revenue per kWh might have been in the counterfactual case of a system
without the TK-1 plant. Hence, rather than assessing financial returns based on a with/without
project comparison, the operating cash flow for the system was compared to the total program of
capital investments in generation and transmission over the project period. On this basis, the
FRR of the project to date is negative; NPV at a 10% discount rate is minus US$176.7 million.
Assuming however that, in the future, VRA's tariffs are set at full cost recovery, the FRR of the
generation and transmission investments over a 20 year period would be 13.5% (nominal).

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

60.      The comprehensive background analysis that preceded appraisal, the key technical advice
provided to Government, the stakeholder inclusion and utilization of lessons learned from on-
going sector investments combined to respond to the Government's economic program and has
ensured the continued relevance of the PDOs. The project however only partially achieved its
objectives, given: (i) the significant lapses in adding generation capacity to the power supply
system; (ii) the difficulties in achieving financial sustainability in spite of enhancements to
system reliability both for transmission (VRA) and distribution (ECG); (iii) the uneven
application of domestic electricity tariffs and unclear signals for private participation in power
generation which have in 2007 led to deep sector viability issues (despite the establishment of a
best practice regulatory framework); and (iv) the unachieved targeted improvements to the sub-
transmission and HV/LV distribution network which has resulted in minimal decreases in
distribution losses. This notwithstanding, the economic rate of return of the Takoradi power plant,
which is about 8% higher than at appraisal, indicates that economically the project was more
beneficial to the overall economy than originally anticipated. The reason for this is that
Government failed to develop major planned power plant as per least cost expansion plan. This
in turn made the Takoradi thermal plant so much more valuable (see section 3.3 on efficiency).

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

61.      The additional capacity injected into the national grid and the improvements in
operational efficiencies have played a contributing factor to increased access to electricity in
Ghana - access has increased from 24% at appraisal (est. population of 15 million) to over 50%
(est. population of 20 million) by 2006. Complemented by rehabilitation of the distribution
network and extensions to the distribution network, electricity supply is now available to many
more residents. In addition, power is available to social institutions, such as schools and clinics
in many rural areas, which has contributed to improving social services in these areas.


                                                  15

62.       While the increased access has allowed for the spread of energy services to previously
unconnected areas, the new capacities have also meant the generation mix has changed, with
more thermal energy being injected into the power system. One consequence has been the
significant rise in tariff levels, such that the cost of services may not be affordable to a large
number of rural residents where the incidence of poverty is more pronounced. The tariff-setting
agency's attempts at introducing a lifeline-tariff system to cushion the impact of high tariffs on
low-income customers have been unsuccessful and have been suspended. The Bank and
Government undertook a Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) and have agreed a plan
(under the PURC tariff setting guidelines) to ensure the gains from the increased access to
electricity are not eroded on account of the relatively high cost of energy services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

63.       The project has ensured a tangible degree of institutional development within the power
utilities, regulatory agencies, the Ministry of Energy and the private sector. Knowledge transfer
in the operations and maintenance of combustion turbine technology was substantial and utility
staff's capacity has been enhanced to the extent a number of VRA staff at the power plant have
moved on to the international market; the environmental support has led to VRA being a leader in
environmental mitigation plans development in the sub-region (IDA now accepts most
environmental systems as equivalent to IDA safeguard systems). The regulatory agencies which
were established under the project have matured and have instituted robust tariff regimes and
introduced best practice regulations for electricity operators. However, the Government's actions
have interfered with the tariff regulator's moves to assuring financial viability of the sector. The
local private sector's capacity in transmission and distribution network construction was
enhanced and will serve them well in future construction activities both outside and in Ghana.
Similarly, opportunities were opened up for financial intermediaries in financing power factor
equipment and improving access to credit for industries.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

64.       Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

65.       There is no doubt that the additions to total generation capacity in Ghana, and the
generally improved operational efficiencies as a result of the transmission and distribution
network improvements have had an important developmental impact on Ghana. However, these
are not likely to be sustained, if the major financial issues facing the sector are not addressed in a
timely manner. Additionally, ensuring high levels of plant availability will continue to be a
significant risk without financial and human resources to sustain plant operations. The
Government has under a performance enhancement study, put in place plans to mitigate the above
risks. VRA has established funds dedicated to continued staff training, engagement of as-needed
expertise, stocking of long-lead spares, and proactive maintenance of plant equipment. But unless
VRA's current financial situation is rectified, adequate funds will not be available to mitigate the
identified risks.

66.       Despite initiatives such as PURC's recent proposal that utilities initiate tariff reviews as
needed instead of the previous annually mandated submission of tariff requests, the regulatory


                                                    16

reforms which were instituted to allow for independent tariff setting will continue to face
difficulties. The transparent licensing and attraction of private operators into the sector will be
difficult to sustain in the face of unclear sector agencies' roles and responsibilities. The
envisaged signal to private investors is unlikely to be attained in the face of these difficulties.
The political situation in Ghana is relatively stable and the project has been implemented without
significant deviations from the original PDOs under two governments with different democratic
philosophies, as such the risk to the PDOs on account of political volatility is low. The VRA has
benefited from institutional capacity building for thermal power and on environment, which is
more than likely to be sustained.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1      Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

67.      The Bank ensured that the Borrower was part of project design and preparation and
supported preparation by providing comprehensive technical, economic, financial management,
and engineering advice leading to a relatively well designed intervention that was responsive to
the Government's economic program, and forward looking in addressing constraints to the
desired growth levels (see also section 2.1). Institutional development was given the desired
attention and has led to the strengthening and development of, for example, VRA's
environmental unit into a fully functioning and well-performing unit. The long delay between the
end of appraisal (1993) and Board approval (1995) is due to the Bank's insistence to raise tariffs
to levels that would ensure that thermal power plant could be operated in a financially sustainable
manner. In view of the fact that thermal power plant was a technology which was new to Ghana,
a longer-term contract for consulting services to assist supervision of power plant construction
could have improved implementation. Arguably, the supervision contract should have been
extended to include the first full scheduled plant overhaul to ensure that the project cycle was
completely covered. Instead, the supervision contract lasted only 3.5 years, which did not cover
full plant completion. However, VRA's reputation of a first rate hydro operator may have
overshadowed the rating of its ability to supervise and run a thermal plant.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Unsatisfactory

68.      The absence of an adequate skill-mix in the Bank's supervision teams and the frequent
changes to the task team contributed to the unsatisfactory supervision of the project during certain
periods of implementation. During periods task teams lacked skills in thermal plant technology.
During the project's supervision period of 12 years, it had 8 TTLs.6 Frequent changes in team



6 The project was extended three times in total. The original closing date was June 30, 2001. The first
project extension lasted until December 31, 2002. The second project extension lasted until December 31,
2003. The third project extension, which was combined with a restructuring of the project, lasted until
December 31, 2006.



                                                   17

composition and TTLs led to inadequate implementation support and advice to VRA. Although
the Bank team, Government and the implementing agencies entered into a series of dialogues and
agreed plans to rectify the problems identified, the time to implement agreed remedies generally
took longer than anticipated. Clearly, supervision in the initial phases of the project and close to
project closure was significantly better than during the middle part of project implementation.
Overall a rating of unsatisfactory Bank performance is viewed as appropriate for the following
reasons:

69.      Softening of Sector Dialogue: Over time, the Bank gave less and less attention to
ensuring cost recovery tariffs as other issues such as privatization and radical sector reform came
to the fore. At the level of the Bank team there was a dilution of responsibilities as the number of
players was enlarged in terms of energy management in the Bank. As there had been no new
energy project planned in the early 2000s, this provided in addition no further incentive for
Government to pursue rigorous energy sector policies. The tariff dialogue with Government
particularly weakened during the last four years of the project lifetime, leading to a difficult
financial situation of both VRA and ECG in late 2007. As the indicators in the datasheet indicate,
neither VRA nor ECG fulfills the financial performance indicators.

70.      A Quality of Supervision Assessment was conducted in October 2004. The project
was rated Moderately Unsatisfactory on account of delays in construction of the power plants and
the lack of a comprehensive Bank response to assist the Borrower resolve both sector and project-
specific issues.

71.      Restructuring in 2004: When the project was restructured in 2004 - with the aim of
making available cost savings towards a distribution component - it had already been extended by
2 years and 8 months. At restructuring, just about 15% of the Credit amount was uncommitted
and available. This restructuring was undertaken too late in the project cycle. It would have been
appropriate to have undertaken such restructuring either during the project's Mid-Term Review or
following completion of plant construction in 2000-2001. The needs in the distribution sector
notwithstanding, the support by the Bank of the Government's decision to re-allocate funds to a
newly appraised distribution component instead of addressing the technical and operational
difficulties being experienced at the just completed thermal power plant appears not justified
against the background of the project's PDO's.

72.      Project Filing: Although there is some evidence that the project supervision teams
during the first 3-4 years of supervision systematically filed information, it appears that the Africa
region's filing of this information itself was unsatisfactory. Very few documents are filed in Iris,
and without any visible strategy behind this. The hard copies filed in the Bank's archives lack
any system. When the ICR team requested the hardcopy files for the Ghana Thermal Power
project from archives, they were mixed with at least one-third of files from countries unrelated to
both Ghana and the energy sector. Moreover, for the period of 2003/2004 files were only
available from the Borrower, as in this instance the Bank energy team apparently did not keep
any records. AFTEG's own procurement archive, on the other hand, provided very useful
documentation. Against this background it has been difficult to assemble a full picture of the
project for the purposes of this ICR. More importantly, however, for supervision of project it
meant that the frequently changing TTLs could not readily acquaint themselves with the key
issues concerning the project at any given point in time.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                                  18

73.     The moderately satisfactory preparatory and appraisal work done at project entry and
improved supervision in the last 2 years of project implementation notwithstanding, the flawed
supervision during key phases of implementation, the overall Bank performance is assigned an
overall moderately unsatisfactory rating.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

74.     During preparation and appraisal, the Government was a key partner in proposing actions
to ensure the achievement of its economic goals, for which improved energy sector performance,
an independent regulatory framework and increased access to electricity were key objectives.
The Government's proactive stance, however, waned during implementation as the relatively
high cost of thermal power became manifest with the increase in global crude prices, and
consensus on domestic political engagement became difficult to achieve. This led to instances of
political interference in tariff-setting and failure to implement agreed sector reforms on time.
There is no doubt the difficulties developing country government's face, like in the Ghanaian
case, when moving from a regime of low hydro-based tariff levels to significant thermal
generation tariff levels. End user tariff levels were increased in 1998-1999 to about US$0.08
kWh as compared to average end user hydro-based tariffs of US$0.03. Nonetheless, once the
policy was made, the length of time it took to implement the project only compounded the
problems of the sector. Delays in adding more generation capacity as envisaged under the sector
reform program, due to, among others, unclear signals in attracting private investment in power
plants have contributed to the 2006-2007 electricity load-shedding program, which is likely to
adversely impact the attainment of Ghana's targeted economic growth rates. Overall, project
implementation suffered due changes in Government, replacement of sector ministers (eight
changes since 1995), and a general indecisiveness on the part of Government.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


     Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG)                                Satisfactory

          Volta River Authority (VRA)                            Moderately Satisfactory

                Ministry of Energy                                    Unsatisfactory


75.     For the ECG, the physical components were largely completed as planned at project
restructuring. While total losses for the distribution network are still estimated at about 24%
nationwide, the areas targeted under this project have been provided reliable electricity and
technical losses were down by about 2% (from 26%) at project closing. Government decisions
outside of ECG's control led to the halt in the MSSA and the deterioration of ECG's financials.
ECG was thus unable to reach the financial targets agreed, due to non-collection of tariffs from
Government agencies, a suspension of the passing on of tariff increases endorsed by PURC to the
end-user since May 2006, and overall insufficient tariff increases to ensure cost recovery.

76.     The VRA's overall performance is rated moderately satisfactory as a result of its role in
the under performance of the Takoradi I power plant - VRA performed satisfactorily on the
construction of transmission lines, social investments such as the construction of schools, clinics,


                                                   19

roads, for the community, etc. However, the instances when they could have been more assertive
in enforcing contracts and hence minimized the delays encountered in the construction,
commissioning and running of the plant contributed to the difficulties in fully achieving the
project's developmental objectives. VRA's compliance with environmental safeguards and
diligent implementation of the EMP, and their plans for continued oversight of environmental and
social issues at the plant and in the plant vicinity are rated highly satisfactory. VRA's institution
of a plan of action to strengthen plant operations' staff capacities, creation of a fund to finance the
purchase of spares which require long lead times to minimize forced plant shutdowns and its
more forward-looking planning to keep plant availability at industry-wide levels is rated
satisfactory.

77.      The Ministry of Energy's performance is rated unsatisfactory based on the impact of the
delays in carrying out the sector reform agenda on Government's economic program and the cost
of doing (energy) business in Ghana. The Ministry of Energy was responsible for initiating and
overseeing the implementation of the sector reforms, for which the agreed activities started in
1996. While the Ministry provided oversight for the formation of the PURC and EC, once these
agencies were formed the remainder of the sector reforms lagged, and the period under review
was dominated by a series of workshops to review and re-review the outlined sector reform
agenda. These long drawn-out sector policy discussions - compounded by frequent changes in
staffing in the Ministry7 - has contributed to the delays and the high-level indecisiveness in
carrying out the implementation of sector reform activities. By project close, the sector reforms
the Ministry were responsible for implementing had not been completed, and the key agencies for
which it had oversight, continued to face financial and operational difficulties. The Ministry of
Energy's performance is rated unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.      Notwithstanding the Government's commitment to implement sector reforms and
beneficiary agencies' satisfactory performance during appraisal and the restructuring phases, the
momentum waned as issues of high thermal energy costs, utilities' management and subsidies
cropped up. The length of time to resolve these issues have contributed to on-going financial
viability problems in the sector. The government's tardiness and effectively the Ministry of
Energy's uneven oversight in implementing sector reforms and providing guidance to sector
institutions is rated unsatisfactory, hence the borrower's overall performance rating of moderately
unsatisfactory.




7 There was a total of 8 different Ministers of Energy in place since project inception, thus creating an
unstable policy environment in the energy sector. Moreover, there was attrition of highly qualified staff
from the Ministry of Energy to better paying positions at PURC and EC.



                                                    20

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

79.      The key lessons learned from the time of design through implementation of this project
include:

80.      Building Sustainable Capacity: Ghana missed an opportunity to "get in right" in terms
of building local capacity to build and operate thermal power plants. VRA is a first rate
hydropower and transmission utility, an institution that has been created through long-term
"twinning" arrangement with another world-class hydropower utility - Ontario Hydro of Canada.
It may now be the appropriate time for Ghana to put in place a similar strategy to create another
first rate thermal power utility, possibly by separating the Takoradi I plant from VRA, and then
putting in place a PPP arrangement with another world class partner that specializes in thermal
power generation. The lesson learned is that when technologies in the energy sector are new to a
country, the length of the O & M contract should extend at least up until the first major scheduled
overhaul of power plant to ensure that the entire project cycle is covered. This ensures better and
sustained transfer of knowledge of power plant management. Furthermore, instead of assigning
individual contracts for sub-tasks of constructing power plant, a single contract such as an
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract can ensure better performance of
overall plant operation.

81.      Procurement of Supervision Consultants: Given the specialized nature of the
management and supervision of the construction of the Takoradi power plant, a solely quality-
based selection (QBS) method for the consultant would have been more appropriate. Instead, the
Consultant was selected based on the QCBS method. The use of the QBS method could have
contributed to ensuring a tighter and higher quality supervision of the contractors for the power
plants, and enabled reduction in the significant errors that were made during construction, which
in turn led to the delays in completing the construction of the power plant and its subsequent sub-
optimal performance. The selection of a more experienced consulting firm with the requisite staff
to ensure a higher level supervision of project implementation and operations and management of
the thermal plant would have ensured better capacity building and transfer of knowledge VRA
staff.

82.      Public Awareness: The uneven application of tariff levels due to public outcry as
happened in 1998 and subsequent years leading to Government mandating PURC to withdraw
increases or Government itself offering to subsidize end-users can be blamed on low level of
public awareness. When the Government liberalized the setting of prices in the petroleum sector,
it undertook a professional campaign to explain the policy. This has not been the case on
sustained basis in the power sector. It is imperative that sustained public awareness creation
campaigns become a key part of any program of sector reforms and include the engagement of
competent professionals to institute and oversee these campaigns.

83.      Overall Policy Context: In the early 2000s, the fact that no new IDA allocations for the
energy sector were available weakened the energy sector dialogue between the Borrower and the
Bank. In addition, the Bank gave less and less attention to ensuring cost recovery tariffs as other
issues such as privatization and radical sector reform came to the fore. Moreover, at the level of
the Bank team there was a dilution of responsibilities as the number of the players was enlarged
in terms of energy sector dialogue. This lack of consistent and strong dialogue may have
contributed to an erosion of electricity tariffs between 2004 and 2007. The Bank needs to study
more closely how its engagement can contribute to sustainable levels of tariffs over time.




                                                  21

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

84.      The summary ICR, which was prepared by the Borrower, is enclosed in Annex 5. The
following comment was provided by a representative of the Ministry of Energy:

"I find this report to be the correct state of affairs as at the end of the project. However, it is
rather surprising that the performance of Ministry of Energy is rated as unsatisfactory.
Component 2, Power Sector Reform, was: "Support to the Ministry of Energy for the
development and establishment of suitable regulatory arrangements, and private participation in
the power sector."

The Ministry provided the oversight for the establishment of PURC and EC, the amendment of
the VRA Act and the unbundling of the VRA into generating entity and transmission entity. The
Ministry got private participation in TICO. These are facts which you acknowledge in the report.

The only aspect of the reforms left to be implemented is the MSSA. I do not think the rating of
unsatisfactory [for the Ministry of Energy] is fair."

(a) Partners

85.      No comments were received on the ICR from the Partner Agencies.




                                                    22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

Thermal power plant                    258.20             161.80             63%
Sector reform/capacity building           4.00               3.62            90%
Demand management                         4.00               0.44            11%
Distribution system upgrading
project (DSUP)                            0.00             14.78             0%


            Total Baseline Cost        266.20             180.64
Physical Contingencies                  24.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                     16.10                0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs         0.00            180.64
Project Preparation Fund                  0.00               0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required         339.30             180.64



(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds           Type of Co-    Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     financing      (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
UK: Commonwealth Development
Corporation                                         30.00         17.84        59.50

EC: European Investment Bank                        46.50         39.45        84.80
FRANCE: French Agency for
Development                                         23.00         29.90        130.00

International Development
Association (IDA)                                   175.60       170.70        97.20

Kuwaiti Fund (KFAED)                                22.00         21.45        97.50
Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA)                       10.00         9.78          97.8




                                            23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component (page 1 of 2)

The project disbursed SDR 124.0 Million out of the total credit of SDR 124.1, and the
remainder has been cancelled.

COMPONENT                             OUTPUT                          COMMENTS
1. Generation and associated  (i) 330 MW generating capacity     Plant constitutes 19% of
transmission works; Operation installed-Combustion & Steam       installed capacity and
& Management Services;        turbines, Heat Recovery            producing about 18% of energy
Supervision of Project        generator; (ii)Additional 500 km produced; (ii) transmission
Implementation.               of 161 kV transmission lines       system improved leading to
                              constructed; (iii) 4.5 km marine   stable system; (iii) technical
                              pipeline for fuel delivery.        specification of marine pipeline
                                                                 was varied and may have led to
                                                                 corrosion of pipeline which
                                                                 impacted performance of plant.


2. Power Sector Reforms.      Legislation establishing           PURC and EC established and
                              independent tariff regulator; and  instituted tariff guidelines;
                              agency to license sector           Commission set up to
                              operators; policy to unbundle      unbundled power sector,
                              and restructure sector.            reforms still on-going.

3. Electricity demand-side    (i)Public awareness on             In association with other
management (DSM).             industrial energy efficiency; (ii) donors, and the private sector, a
                              Services to industries to identify non-governmental organization
                              measures to reduce demand and      was set up in 1997 to carry on
                              improve system efficiency; (iii)   DSM activities.
                              power factor improvements to
                              reduce excessive demand; (iv)
                              lease finance scheme to assist
                              industries to purchase energy
                              efficiency equipment.


4. Distribution System        33 kV additions in Accra, Tema     There has been improved
Upgrading (DSUP) for          & Kumasi; HV/LV system             service delivery in spite of load
improving reliability of      improvements; treasury             shedding regime.
service in targeted areas.    management, tariff formulation
                              training.




5.VRA Institutional           (i) Environmental Mitigation       VRA's environmental unit is
Development                   program; (ii) Plant management     rated highly.
                              and operations training.




                                             24

 AMOUNT OF ENERGY GENERATED (GWh)

Takoradi Thermal Power Station (TK-1)

  Yr     Jan   Feb    Mar    Apr    May   Jun  Jul  Aug Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
 2001    40     83     90    92      107  70   53   24   4   20   55   102  740
 2002    102    83    107    97      97   99   20    0   14  57   99   99   874
 2003    127    83    167    160     164  173 125   78   82  80   64   26   1328
 2004    74     83     90    108     87    8   3     5   36  37    6    1   536
 2005    14     19    106    94      38   28   98   72   52  101  102  105  831
 2006    116   165    147    153     103  102  91   109  99  101  109  122  1416



Takoradi International Company (TK-2)

  Yr     Jan   Feb    Mar    Apr    May   Jun  Jul  Aug Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
 2001    27     25     23    36      61   15   19   39   49  43   39   135  510
 2002    133   110    141    134     138  105 137   125  70  93   81   96   1363
 2003    99     96     77    68      64   35   10   19   26  46   59   67   668
 2004    43     14     3      8      24   16   18   13   12  13   24   34   223
 2005    19     18     12    13      45   42   5    20   43  16   18   76   328
 2006    88     75    112    110     117  124 135   137 112  115  133  137  1395




                                                   25

                                             (TK-1)                                                                 (TK-2)

                                                               Steam           Combined          Turbine         Turbine            Simple
       Turbine Gen1               Turbine Gen2            Turbine Gen.            Cycle            Gen1             Gen2             Cycle
                                                                                               Av                                        Capa
                                                                  Capacit            Capacit   aila  Capacit          Capacit            city
                  Capacity                    Capacity    Availa     y                  y      bilit    y      Avail     y               Utiliz
     Availability Utilization                 Utilization bility( Utilizati Availab  Utilizati  y    Utilizati abilit Utilizati Availab  ation
YEAR    (%)           (%)     Availability(%)     (%)      %)     on (%)    ility(%) on (%)    (%)   on (%)    y(%)   on (%)    ility(%)  (%)


1997    93.33        77.53                                                    93.33    77.53



1998    58.18        59.45         58.18         58.18                        58.81    58.18



1999    52.80        27.67         78.79         48.81                        65.80    38.24



2000    87.87        25.41         16.22          8.30                        52.04    17.83                                      97.97   19.78



2001    86.56        57.57                                 75.89    19.24     81.99    25.60                                      93.40   26.64



2002    74.77        71.94         13.16          9.16     76.74    57.25     76.95    68.00                                      89.85   72.47




2003    56.00        43.12         74.27         69.14     56.25    29.74     62.17    47.11                                      93.57   35.07




2004    65.86        11.48         74.31         34.63     76.86    11.39     60.48    29.05                                      94.55   11.56




2005    36.34        13.23         74.31         54.38     76.86    21.83     60.48    29.70                                      98.85   17.06




                                                                  26

2006    85.84    73.38    39.34    54.38    90.44    39.49    71.87    49.85    95.30   72.61




2007    76.91    65.17    93.37    84.07    73.95    41.58    81.41    64.32    92.13   75.88




        72.8     51.8     48.1     38.7     69.6     35.4     70.2     47.5     94.5    41.4




                                                  27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1.        Under the Generation & Associated Transmission component of the Thermal Power
Project at Appraisal, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the investment program for the entire
power system over the evaluation period was estimated to be 18%. Apart from the addition of a
220 MW simple cycle plant (TK-2) at Takoradi to the 330 MW Combined Cycle (CC) plant
established by the Thermal Power Project, none of the planned additional generation capacities
were realized.

2.        It is unlikely, however, that the decision to delay capacity additions will continue into the
future. In fact, construction is already under way on a new dual-fuel power plant at Tema and on
a hydroelectric project at Bui, and negotiations are ongoing with the private sector for the
construction of additional combined cycle thermal plants. Once additional capacity is available,
it is likely that the role of the T1 plant will change, especially if some of the new plants have
lower operating costs. Hydrology will also play a role, since the bulk of the capacity in the
system will continue to be provided by the dams at Akosombo and Kpong. Consequently, the ex-
post evaluation of the Takoradi Themal Project focused on the incremental contribution of the
power plant to the supply of electricity during the period from 1996 (when construction
commenced) to 2006 (the latest year with actual supply data). A residual value of the plant at the
end of the evaluation period was estimated based on an assumed 20 year life.

3.        Briefly, the evaluation looked at the differences in terms of investment, operating costs,
and amount of electricity supplied between the with-project scenario (which included TK-1, 220
MW of single-cycle generation at TK-2)), and Akosombo and Kpong hydroelectric plants), and a
without-project scenario which included only the TK-2 plant and the hydro-electric facilities.
Where demand exceeded supply, generation at TK-2 was assumed to increase to fill the gap up to
the limits of its capacity. The reduction in unserved demand attributable to the TK-1 plant was
valued at the economic value to customers assumed at the time of appraisal (viz. 8 cents/kWh for
high voltage customers, 8.5 cents for residential, and 11.6 cents for non-residential), less the fully
allocated costs of transmission and distribution. These values were escalated to take into account
real increases in the costs of petroleum-based fuels over the evaluation period. The net result of
the differential analysis was an estimated ERR for the T1 project of 26.4%. Details of the
assumptions and calculations are provided in the following sections.

Key Assumptions

     i.        Project Cost

4.        The total project cost for the 330 MW Power Plant Project (excluding IDC) was
US$287.74 million, broken down as follows:

VRA 330 MW CC Project Capital Expenditure

                    Project Item                                       Costs ($ million)
1. Power Plant & Site Preparations                                         208.34
2. Management & Operations Service                                           8.58
3. Project Management & Engineering                                          7.55
4.Township Development                                                       7.54



                                                   28

5. Transmission Lines & Sub-station                                      46.76
6. Land Acquisition & Right of Way                                        0.06
7. Marine Investigations                                                  1.86
8. Engineering Services                                                   4.84
9. VRA Support Services etc                                               2.61
                       Total                                             287.74
Source VRA.

Investments were spread over an 8 year period from 1996 to 2003. However, over 90% of the
capital costs were incurred in the first 4 years (1996 ­ 1999).

    ii.      Dispatch With and Without the Project

5.       In order to assess the net economic benefits of the TK-1 plant, it was necessary to look
both at the actual system supply pattern, and also at a postulated dispatch pattern in the event that
the plant was not available. The actual supply pattern was provided by VRA. The postulated
supply pattern differed in 3 respects: (i) until TK-2 was brought on line in 2000, the output of the
two hydroelectric plants was reduced by the ratio of firm power without thermal backup
(estimated at 4,300 GWh/yr) to firm power with thermal backup (estimated at 4,800 GWh/yr);
and (ii) the TICO plant was assumed to cover any additional demands up to the limits of its
capacity. Details of the assumed dispatch profiles are included in the summary tables at the end
of this section.

    iii.     Fuel cost

6.       Fuel costs for crude oil were taken from the annual average of weekly prices of Nigerian
crude oil, plus a US$2 per bbl margin for transportation and handling. The assumed delivered
costs are shown below:

Crude Oil Prices - $/bbl
    1998        1999        2000       2001        2002       2003      2004        2005        2006
   14.88       19.78       30.36       26.54      26.98      30.78      39.99       57.68      69.03

Heat content of the crude oil was taken to be 5.8 million BTU/bbl.

7.       Thermal efficiencies of the plants were taken from VRA planning assumptions, viz. 45%
for the Takoradi Thermal Plant in CC mode and 30% for the plant operating in SC mode and for
TICO.

    iv.      Economic Value of Incremental Electricity Supply

8.       At the time of appraisal, the economic value of incremental electricity supply was
estimated to be 8.cents/kWh for high voltage customers, 8.5 cents for residential and 11.6 cents
for non-residential. While the files describing the derivation of these values could not be located,
it was possible to re-create similar figures for high-voltage and non-residential customers based
on the capital and operating costs of diesel-fired generating stations. The value assigned to
residential consumption could not be duplicated, and indeed is significantly lower than estimates
used in other projects. It is speculated that the value assigned represents the avoided cost of
substitutes (batteries, kerosene) without any allowance for consumer surplus associated with
incremental quantities of energy consumed by households with electricity supply. In any event,



                                                  29

the value assigned represents a conservative measure of household benefits, and as such, leads to
a conservative measure of ERR.

9.       Economic values to customers were translated into economic values at the plant bus-bar
by deducting the fully allocated costs of transmission (in the case of all customer classes) and
distribution in the case of residential and non-residential customers of ECG. Transmission costs
were assumed to be 0.5 cents/kWh, while distribution costs (which were based on the financial
statements of ECG) were assumed to be 3.5 cents per kWh for residential and 3.0 cents for non-
residential customers.

10.      A weighted average economic value was calculated based on the above unit values and
the actual composition of customers during each year of the evaluation. These values were also
adjusted for the real increases in the prices of petroleum fuels over the period of the analysis,
based on the assumption that 50 percent of the value represented avoided fuel costs.

Results

11.      The ERR for the Takoradi thermal plant over the 1996 ­ 2006 period is estimated to be
26.4%, based on the assumptions outlined above for relative plant efficiencies, plant availability,
and economic values of incremental electricity supply. Details of the calculations are attached in
Tables 3.1.

12.      The assumed values for incremental supply are probably the most contentious among the
assumptions. However, the evaluation maintains a 10% ERR even with a 25 percent reduction in
the value of the benefits. If the economic value to customers is assumed to be as low as the
average bulk supply tariff, the ERR of the project falls to 3.7%.

13.     Extending the analysis into the future would undoubtedly improve the ERR of the project,
since the average willingness to pay for power supply exceeds the marginal cost of generation at
the TK-1 plant. However, the analysis becomes more complicated as additional plants are added
to the system, and it is difficult, without detailed simulation analysis, to predict the likely future
dispatch of the TK-1 plant. Arguably, as one of the most efficient plants in the system, it is likely
to be base-loaded (assuming that transmission constraints are overcome). However, new plants
might also adopt more efficient technologies, which could relegate the T1 plant to a lesser role.
Given the highly satisfactory returns to date, it was considered unnecessary to extend the analysis
into more speculative realms.

Financial Rate of Return

14.      The FRR of the project to date can only be viewed in the context of the total system.
Since tariffs for bulk supply are established on the basis of estimated average costs of generation,
the incremental revenue from the TK-1 plant is unlikely to cover incremental costs in a hydro-
dominated system. If the value of the incremental output were based solely on the average bulk
tariff (excluding Valco), the FRR would be the same as the ERR at the bulk supply tariff ­ i.e.
3.7%. This compares unfavorably with the 8% on-lending rate for the IDA credit under the terms
of the loan.

15.      Because electricity tariffs in Ghana are set by the regulator, it is impossible to specify
what the average revenue per kWh might have been in the counterfactual case of a system
without the TK-1 plant. Hence, rather than assessing financial returns based on a with/without
project comparison, the operating cash flow for the system was compared to the total program of


                                                   30

capital investments in generation and transmission over the project period. On this basis, the
FRR of the project to date is negative; NPV at a 10% discount rate is minus US$176.7 million.

16.      In order to test what the financial returns might be over the longer-term, VRA's future
operating cash flow was projected based on the assumption that tariffs would be set at full cost
recovery beginning in 2008. System capacity was frozen at its 2006 level, and sales were
adjusted accordingly. Based on these assumptions, the FRR of the above-noted generation and
transmission investments over a 20 year period would be 13.5% (nominal).

Conclusion

17.      From the above, the 330 MW Power Plant Project has achieved a satisfactory ERR to
date of 26.4%. Also, although the 330 MW Thermal Plant has been plagued with technical and
operational problems since the commencement of commercial operations, the project's major
objective of providing additional source of electrical power within a specified environmental
impact has been achieved. The project has additionally contributed immensely to the
improvement in the overall stability of the Ghanaian electrical distribution system.

18.      The FRR of the system expansion program, of which project is a key part, has been
unsatisfactory to date. However, provided that VRA tariffs are adjusted to, and maintained at
cost recovery levels, the longer-term FRR of the program is estimated to be a satisfactory 13.5%.




                                                  31

                                                     TABLE 3.1

With Project                                     1996  1997   1998 1999  2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005   2006


Investment Costs - $ millions
Total                                            92.85 87.77 61.53 27.06  6.85  2.79   2.69  6.21  0.00  0.00   0.00


Electricity Production (GW.h)
  Akosombo Gen.                                  5,520 5,711 3,166 4,289 5,557 5,524  4,178 3,210 4,404 4,718  4,690
  Kpong Gen.                                     1,067 1,140 1,140  880  1,052 1,085   858   675   876   911    929
Total Hydro                                      6,587 6,851 4,306 5,169 6,610 6,609  5,036 3,885 5,280 5,629  5,619
  TTPS                                              0     22 1,146  755   345   740    874  1,328  536   831   1,416
   o/w SC                                           0     22 1,146  755
   CC                                                                     345   740    874  1,328  536   831   1,416
  TK-2                                                                    268   510   1,363  668   223   328   1,395
  Tema Diesel                                       2     12    37    0     0     0      0     18    0     0      0
  Emerg. Gen.                                       0     0      0    0     74    0      0     1     0     0      0
VRA Thermal                                         2     35 1,182  756   687  1,250  2,237 2,015  758  1,159  2,810
  Imports                                         423   660    573 1,032  864   462   1,146  940   878   815    629
Total                                            7,012 7,546 6,062 6,956 8,160 8,321  8,419 6,840 6,916 7,603  9,058


Operating and Maintenance Expense ($ million)
  TTPS                                            0.00  0.01  0.57  0.38  0.17  0.37   0.44  0.66  0.27  0.42   0.71
  TK-2                                            0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.13  0.26   0.68  0.33  0.11  0.16   0.70
  Tema Diesel                                     0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
  Emerg. Gen.                                     0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
Total                                             0.00  0.01  0.57  0.38  0.31  0.63   1.12  1.00  0.38  0.58   1.41


Fuel Cost ($ million)                             0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
  TTPS                                            0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
   SC                                             0.00  0.94 33.44 29.29  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00




                                                       32

  CC                                                  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  13.67  25.68   30.81  53.45   28.00  62.69 127.76
 TK-2                                                 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  15.95  26.55   72.11  40.35   17.46  37.06 188.77
 Tema Diesel                                          0.11   0.66   1.55   0.02   0.01   0.00    0.03   1.23    0.00   0.00    0.00
 Emerg. Gen.                                          0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   5.52   0.00    0.00   0.07    0.00   0.00    0.00
VRA Thermal                                           0.11   1.61  34.99  29.31  35.16  52.23  102.95  95.09   45.45  99.75 316.53


 Note - Average fuel cost/kWh thermal                 0.05   0.05   0.03   0.04   0.05   0.04    0.05   0.05    0.06   0.09    0.11



 Without Project                                1996   1997     1998    1999   2000   2001   2002    2003   2004    2005    2006


 Investment Costs - $ millions
 Total                                           0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00


 Electricity Production - GWh
   Akosombo Gen.                                4,945 5,116    2,836    3,842  5,557  5,524  4,178  3,210   4,404   4,718   4,690
   Kpong Gen.                                    956  1,021    1,021     788   1,052  1,085   858    675     876     911     929
 Total Hydro                                    5,901 6,137    3,858    4,630  6,610  6,609  5,036  3,885   5,280   5,629   5,619
   TTPS
    o/w SC
    CC
   TK-2                                                                         268    510   1,638  1,638    758    1,159   1,638
   Tema Diesel                                     2     12       37       0      0      0      0      18      0       0       0
   Emerg. Gen.                                     0      0       0        0      74     0      0      1       0       0       0
 VRA Thermal                                       2     12       37       0    342    510   1,639  1,657    758    1,159   1,638
   Imports                                       423    660      573    1,032   864    462   1,146   940     878     815     629
 Total                                          6,326 6,810    4,467    5,663  7,816  7,581  7,821  6,482   6,916   7,603   7,886


 Incremental Un-met Demand - GWh                 686    736    1,594    1,294   345    740    598    358       0       0    1,172


 Operating and Maintenance Expense ($ million)
   TTPS                                          0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00




                                                            33

  TK-2                                      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.13   0.26   0.82   0.82    0.38    0.58     0.82
  Tema Diesel                               0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
  Emerg. Gen.                               0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
Total                                       0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.13   0.26   0.82   0.82    0.38    0.58     0.82


Fuel Cost ($ million)
  TTPS                                      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
   SC                                       0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
   CC                                       0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
  TK-2                                      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00  15.95  26.55  86.66  98.88   59.45  131.10   221.74
  Tema Diesel                               0.11    0.66     1.55     0.02   0.01   0.00   0.03   1.23    0.00    0.00     0.00
  Emerg. Gen.                               0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   5.08   0.00   0.00   0.06    0.00    0.00     0.00
VRA Thermal                                 0.11    0.66     1.55     0.02  21.04  26.55  86.69  100.17  59.45  131.10   221.74


  Note - Average fuel cost/kWh thermal      0.05    0.05     0.04     0.05   0.06   0.05   0.05   0.06    0.08    0.11     0.14



With minus Without Comparison               1996    1997     1998     1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005     2006


Investment Costs                           92.85   87.77    61.53    27.06   6.85   2.79   2.69   6.21    0.00    0.00     0.00
O&M Costs                                   0.00    0.01     0.57     0.38   0.17   0.37   0.30   0.18    0.00    0.00     0.59
Fuel Costs                                  0.00    0.94    33.44    29.29  14.12  25.68  16.26  (5.08) (14.00) (31.34)   94.80


Unmet Demand (GW.h)                       686.15  735.84  1,594.38 1,293.65 344.50 740.15 598.45 358.48   0.00    0.00  1,172.28
Unmet Demand - WTP ($/kwh)                  0.07    0.07     0.07     0.07   0.09   0.08   0.08   0.08    0.09    0.11     0.12


Value of Unmet Demand ($millions)          48.10   53.79   104.28    93.39  30.09  61.80  50.55  30.05    0.00    0.00   144.93


Project Net Cash Flow                     (44.75) (34.93)    8.74    36.67   8.95  32.96  31.31  28.74   14.00   31.34    49.55


ERR - to end 2006                          26.4%




                                                          34

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                       Title              Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
K.K. Framji              Principal Financial Analyst   AFTU2 TTL
Carlos Algandona         Senior Power Engineer         AFTU2 Power engineer/TTL
Manoucher Ashouripour    Senior Financial Analyst      AFTU2 Financial analysis
Mark Segal               Senior Economist              AFTU2 Economic analysis
J. Gilling                                             AFTU2 Project economics
A. Gulstone              Lead Power Engineer           AFTU2 Engin. & instit. dev.
J. Bond                  Principal Economist           AFTU2 Regional energy trade
E. George                Program Assistant             AFTU2 Adm. support
Pamela Blyther           Program Assistant             AFTU2 Admin. support
Supervision/ICR
Carlos Algandona         Senior Power Engineer         AFTU2 TTL 1995/1996
Mark Segal               Senior Economist              AFTU2 TTL 1997
Joel Maweni              Senior Financial Analyst      AFTG1 TTL 1998/2001
Mangesh Hoskote          Sr. Power Sector Specialist   AFTG1 TTL 2002/2003
Donal O'Leary            Senior Power Engineer         AFTEG TTL 2004/2005
S. Vijay Iyer            Lead Financial Analyst        AFTEG TTL 2005/2006
Fanny Missfeldt-Ringius  Energy Economist              AFTEG TTL 2006/2007
Reynold Duncan           Power Engineer                AFTG1 Power engineer
Takeshi Kikukawa         Energy Specialist             AFTG1
Calderon                 Power Engineer                AFTG1 Power engineer
Kofi-Boateng Agyen       Senior Operations Officer     AFTPS Financial Analyst
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo    Senior Procurement Specialist EAPCO Procurement
R. I. Gopalkrishnan      Consultant                    EASEG Procurement
Helena Kofi              Procurement Analyst           AFTEG Procurement
Serigne Omar Fye         Sr. Environmental Specialist  AFTEI Environment
Richard Senou            Senior Financial Analyst      AFTEG Financial Analysis
Prasad Tallapragada      Senior Energy Specialist      AFTEG Distribution(DSUP)
Erika Hyde               Team Assistant                AFTG1 Admin. Support
Lily Wong                Program Assistant             AFTEG Admin. Support
Salli Cudjoe             Program Assistant             AFCW1 Admin. Support




                                         35

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY92                                                            3.89
  FY93                                                          102.51
  FY94                                                          272.88
  FY95                                                          102.16
  FY96                                                            0.00
  FY97                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.19
  FY01                                                            0.00
  FY02                                                            0.00
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
                        Total:                                  481.63
Supervision/ICR
  FY92                                                            0.00
  FY93                                                            0.00
  FY94                                                            0.00
  FY95                                                           50.65
  FY96                                                          186.65
  FY97                                                          162.29
  FY98                                                           66.88
  FY99                                                           66.06
  FY00                                 48                       135.97
  FY01                                 30                        76.62
  FY02                                 13                        55.50
  FY03                                 25                       118.11
  FY04                                 29                       129.74
  FY05                                 31                       144.20
  FY06                                 19                       115.60
  FY07                                 11                        44.56
                        Total:        206                     1352.83




                                    36

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                             PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                        GHANA THERMAL POWER PROJECT

                                 IDA CREDIT 2682­GH


In 1995, the Government of Ghana obtained a credit of SDR 124.1 million (US$175.6
million equivalent under Standard IDA terms, with a 40 year maturity to finance the
Thermal Power project.

The objectives of the Ghana Thermal Power Project were to enable VRA to maintain the
country's electricity supply by providing the generating capacity to meet the electricity
demand in Ghana; enhance operational efficiency through transmission and generation
systems improvements; moderate demand growth through economic demand-side
management programming; strengthen the institutional capabilities of the power sector
and of VRA by supporting its ongoing programme of institutional development to meet
the requirements for the mid 1990s and beyond. The institutional strengthening would
include development of new regulatory arrangements for the sector, and measures to
encourage private sector participation in the development of power supply.

The Project consisted of four (4) components:

    (a)     Generation and associated transmission and institutional development

This component consisted of: (i) the construction of 300 MW combined-cycle generation
capacity; (ii) a generation-associated transmission comprising about 360 km of single and
double circuit 161 kV and associated sub stations; (iii) consulting engineering services;
and (iv) support for VRA's programme of institutional development.

    (b)     Power Sector Reform

This component was to provide technical assistance to support the Ministry of (Mines
and) Energy to study existing processes and relationships between the utilities and
governmental bodies and determine the future development of a regulatory framework. It
also included assistance for Government to establish regulatory arrangements as
appropriate.

    (c)     Electricity Demand Management




                                            37

This component consisted of development and implementation of market-based policy
instruments, institutional arrangements and programme specific interventions to promote
and sustain electricity demand through improvements in energy use by consumers.

    (d)     VRA's Institutional Development

This component provided support for VRA's programme of institutional development
and upgrading its capacities with training and technical assistance; and the environmental
monitoring training required for Environmental Impact Mitigating Programme.


Summary of Component (a)

Contract TK1 Combustion Turbine Generator (CTG) "open cycle" Conformed Turnkey
Contract was signed on October 31, 1995. The contractual commencement date was
January 10, 1996 after the advance payment had been made by VRA. Contractual
completion dates were then July 15, 1997 for combustion gas turbine 1 (CTG1) and
September 9, 1997 for combustion gas turbine 2 (CTG2).

For reasons detailed later in this report progress on the implementation of the project was
not to schedule and the contractual completion dates were not met.

The VRA were forced by the circumstances of a shortfall of power generation and delay
in completing the works to take the two gas turbines into service in December 1997 and
January 1998 irrespective of the fact that the plant as a whole was not complete. It was at
least 12 months after the CTGs were taken into service that the plant in all areas was in a
state of completion, sufficient, under normal circumstances, to permit the plant to be
taken over. Liquidated Damages were applied up until December 1997 and January 1998
the actual taken into service dates of the two CTGs.

The provisional tests on completion were carried out for both CTGs in mid 1998. The
Contractor successfully demonstrated that the installed plant operated within the
guaranteed figures for net heat rate and net generated power output and within the
guaranteed emission values although the results for CTG2 power output were marginal.

Construction of the plant did not therefore run to programme and could not be considered
a success with respect to contractual completion dates. The basic plant is proving to be
of a sound and reliable design.

Following continuing disputes with the Contractor over various outstanding contractual
matters a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) was signed in July 2000 within which
the Contractor undertook to complete specified contractual work inclusive of final
installation of the marine pipeline and to complete the supply of spare parts and
consumables. Some of the MOU commitments were not completed and also the
agreement of the final resolution of the Marine Pipeline.

The prime causes of the delay to Contract completion are seen to be the Contractors
responsibility. The problems began with the demise of Nuova Cimimontubi the original
joint venture partner and the resulting late introduction of Stone & Webster Engineering
(S & W) of Boston as the balance of plant sub contractors and project managers.
Problems were exacerbated towards the end of the project when S & W got into financial


                                              38

difficulties and were unable to provide the funds necessary to complete the project. At
the signing of the MOU GE undertook to provide the necessary funds.

The most significant "on site" causes of delay to project completion arose from late
completion of the civil works. However some engineering and procurement problems
also arose during the period of the contract which contributed to the delay in final
completion. The major engineering and procurement problems were:

     Over a 60% failure rate on the printed circuit boards (pcbs) associated with the
          distributed control system (DCS).

     Repairs required to the fuel storage tank bases when the tank bases "depressed"
          during the hydro testing.

     Correction of misalignment of CTG1 exhaust stack.

     Inability to lay the marine pipeline as contracted.

     Late delivery of the Switchyard steelwork.

     Late delivery of the pipe rack.

     Unforeseen problems on the gas turbines.

The provisional tests on completion were carried out for both CTGs in mid 1998. The
Contractor successfully demonstrated that the installed plant operated within the
guaranteed figures for net heat rate and net generating output and within the guaranteed
emission burdens although the results for CTG2 power output were marginal.

The project was substantially completed within the price tendered inclusive of the
contingencies. However Claim issues have still to be resolved. The final payment
has still to be made and the Performance Guarantee is still held by VRA. There are
also GE and VRA claim issues to be settled. An attempt at mediation on these issues
in November 2000 failed. Arbitration therefore remains a possible future course of
action.

The Warranty period on all the plant with the exception of the marine pipeline ended in
June 30, 2000. The issue of the Final Takeover Certificate is pending completion of the
actions defined within the Memorandum of Understanding as is the final payment.



                           POWER SECTOR REFORM

1.      INTRODUCTION

The Power Sector Reform Programme (PSRP) was initiated in 1995 as part of activities
to satisfy the conditions for the Government of Ghana (GOG) to access a US$300 million
Credit facility (Takoradi Thermal Power Project (ITPP) Credit 2682-GH) for the
construction of the Takoradi Thermal Power Plant. The PSRP was financed mainly by
the World Bank under the Takoradi Thermal Power Plant (TIPP) Credit 2682-GH.




                                              39

The power sector reforms were intended to create the environment to attract private
sector investments into the power sector owing to the fact that GOG and its traditional
financiers (the World Bank and other bilateral donors) were not able to provide the
significant funding requirements for future expansion of the power system.

2.0     Project Organisation

The PSRP was initially implemented through a Power Sector Reform Committee (PSRC)
established to work out modalities for introducing reforms in the sector in order to attract
private sector investment and subsequently by a Power Sector Reform Secretariat.

2.1     Power Sector Reform Committee

The PSRC worked through four (4) Task Forces (operational, legal, distribution services
and customer services) composed of members from the power utility companies, the
Ministry of Energy and other stakeholders.

2.1.1 Task Force on Operational Issues

This Task Force was formed to review issues related to the establishment of a market for
power generation and also the institutional set up for regulating the market as well as to
establish a methodology and associated tools for computing electricity tariffs. The Task
Force was assisted in its work by SYNEX Consulting Engineers of Chile.

2.1.2 Legal Task Force

The Legal Task Force had the responsibility to identify key legal and contractual issues
including existing legislation, power supply contracts and regulations that were potential
impediments to reform. The Task Force was assisted in its work by LeBeouf Lamb,
Greene and MacRae of Washington DC.

2.1.3. Distribution Services Task Force

The Distribution Service Task Force was charged with the responsibility to address
specific issues relating to the delivery of distribution services and also to define structure
commercially viable "cost centers" that were to be converted into distribution concessions.
The Task Force was assisted in its work by a Washington DC based firm, TRESP
Associates.

2.1.4 Customer Services Task Force

The Customer Services Task Force was to address specific issues and gaps relating to the
protection of the rights of customers and obligations of power utilities.

2.2     Power Sector Reform Secretariat (PSRS)

As part .of the strategy approved by Cabinet in June 2003, a Power Sector Reform


                                              40

Secretariat was set up under the Ministry of Energy. The Secretariat is responsible for
advising the Ministry of Energy on the reform programme and processes and also
managing its day-to-day implementation.

2.2.1 Planning Committees

The Ministry of Energy constituted the following four (4) Planning Committees to assist
the Secretariat in the implementation of various aspects of the reform programme:

     (i)    VRA Holding Committee;
     (ii)   Aboadze Thermal Complex Restructuring Committee;
     (iii)  Transmission Restructuring Committee; and
     (iv)   Distribution Planning Committee.

The Implementation Planning Committees and their Technical Teams were made up of
representatives of the major stakeholders in the electricity sector (VRA, ECG, Ministry of
Energy, Energy Commission and. Public Utilities Regulatory Commission). The reports
and recommendations of these Committees have formed the basis for the implementation
of the Reform Programme.

The Secretariat is supported by other Consultants who are engaged, when required to
undertake specific assignments

2.2.2 Steering Committee

A Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of Energy, oversees the implementation
of the Reform Programme. Other members of the Steering Committee include: (i) Board
Chairman of VRA; (ii) Board Chairman of ECG: (iii) Managing Director of ECG; and
(iv) Chief Executive of VRA.

3.0      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

Following the completion of the work of the Task Forces, the Power Sector Reform
Committee (PSRC) organized a workshop in August 1996 to: (i) present their findings;
(ii) promote discussions of other issues affecting private participation in the power sector;
and (iii) define follow up activities to address gaps and outstanding issues.

3.1      Workshops

The workshop was attended by representatives from local industrial and mining
enterprises, the power utilities, and the World Bank. Special guests included resource
persons from the Public Utility Commission of Pennsylvania, USA, the Michigan
Electric Co-operatives Association (MECA), the EECI of Cote d'Ivoire and TRESP
Associates of the USA. The consultants to the Task Forces were also present.

3.2      Recommendations




                                              41

At the end of the workshop, the PSRC's recommendations focused on: (i) establishing an
appropriate institutional framework for the regulation of the industry especially with
regard to pricing of electricity supply and distribution; and (ii) re-structuring the
Electricity Supply Industry (ESI) in order to remove the monopoly of VRA and to allow
private sector participation particularly in the generation of electricity.

3.2.1 The PSRC further recommended that a separate Transmission Utility should be
created in order to provide a non-discriminatory "open access" transmission service for
all players in the power market.

3.2.2 Following from the Committee's recommendations, the Public Utilities
Regulatory Commission (PURC) and the Energy Commission (EC) were established by
Acts of Parliament in 1997 namely Act 538 and Act 541 respectively. The PURC, under
Act 538, is responsible for electricity tariffs while the Energy Commission has
responsibility for regulating the technical aspects of the electricity supply industry.

3.2.3 The Energy Commission Act in accordance with the recommendation of the
PSRC, among other things, provided for the setting up of a separate Electricity
Transmission Utility to engage exclusively in the transmission of power throughout the
country.

3.2.4 The Government further agreed to the proposal to separate VRA generation into
Hydro and Thermal companies and in the Letter of Development Policy, dated May 1998,
the Government expressed its intention to privatise VRA's thermal power generation
facilities as well as the distribution utilities. On the basis of this Government decided to
transfer to the VRA-CMS Energy joint venture the use and control of the 330 MW
combined cycle thermal generation facility (TAPCO).

3.2.5 In the same Letter of Development Policy Government, as part of its divestiture
programme, Government agreed to lease part of the Aboadze site to the Takoradi
International Company Ltd (TICO) to construct the 330 MW TICO 'plant (220 MW of
which has been completed).

3.3     Distribution Sector

Regarding the distribution sector, Government's stated policy, as contained in its Letter of
Development Policy, was as follows:

    (i)     ECG and NED will be transformed into a single Holding Company to
            comprise of five Strategic Business Units;
    (ii)    GOG will secure broad-based participation in the ownership of the proposed
            Holding Company by arranging for public sale of shares on the Ghana Stock
            Exchange and also establishment of an Employee Stock Option Plan; and
    (iii)   GOG will enter into management contracts (or operations and maintenance
            contracts) with the privatised distribution companies for the management as
            "cost centres" of SHEP activities within designated distribution areas.



                                                 42

4.0     REVIEW OF POWER SECTOR REFORMS

Economic Consulting Associates of United Kingdom (UK) were engaged by the Ministry
of Energy in 2001 to review the Power Sector Reform Programme and make
recommendation for changes if necessary. The Consultant's assignment was funded by
the World Bank under the Takoradi Thermal Power Project (TIPP). The Consultants
submitted their Draft Report in January 2003.

4.1     Workshop

A workshop was held to discuss the Draft Report prepared by the Consultant. The
workshop was attended by all stakeholders including ECG, VRA, Association of Ghana
Industries (AGI), Chamber of Mines, Energy Foundation, EC, PURC, CMS Energy and
the members of the Parliamentary Select Committee on Mines and Energy. Following
from the outcome of the workshop the Consultants finalized their report in April 2003
which was submitted to Cabinet by the Ministry of Energy and approved as the revised
Power Sector Reform Programme in April 2003.

4.2.1 The Ministry of Energy organized a second workshop in May 2003 to agree on a
schedule for implementation of the Power Sector Reform Programme prepared by the
Ministry of Energy. The implementation schedule and strategy was submitted to Cabinet
for their consideration and approval.

4.2.2 In June 2003 Cabinet approved the implementation strategy and schedule. The
revised strategy that was approved for the implementation of the reforms included the
following:

    · Reconstitute VRA into a Holding Company to manage the investments of current
        VRA to allow it to become a significant player in power generation in West
        Africa;

    · Establish VRA Hydro Company (Akosombo & Kpong Power Stations) as a
        subsidiary of VRA Holding Company;

    · Create a Joint Venture Company to own the Aboadze Thermal Power Complex;

    · Establish a separate Transmission Company wholly-owned by Government to
        offer level playing field for all participants in power market; and

    · Reconstitute ECG and NED into a single Distribution Company. In addition,
        implement a Management Contract to improve performance.

4.3     Cabinet in March 2004 considered the Memorandum on the Volta River
Amendment Bill and other aspects of the Power Sector Reforms and decided as follows:

    (i)     VRA should be reconstituted into two companies, a Hydro Company to be


                                               43

            responsible for hydro generation, and another company to own the Aboadze
            Thermal Power Complex (the holding company concept as approved
            originally was removed);

    (ii)    Reconfirmed its decision that a separate Transmission Company, wholly-
            owned by Government, should be established to offer a level playing field
            for all participants in the power market;

    (iii)   Reconfirmed its decision that ECG and NED should be reconstituted into a
            single Distribution Company. A Management Support Services contract was
            to be implemented in line with agreement with the World Bank.

5.      ACTIONS IMPLEMENTED AFTER CABINET REVIEW DECISIONS

The following actions have been taken regarding implementation of Cabinet decisions on
the Power Sector Reform Programme:

5.1     Re-structuring of VRA - Amendments to VRA Act 46

The VRA Amendment Act was passed in September 2005 to allow the creation of two
separate companies, VRA electric power generating entity and the Ghana Grid Company
to operate the transmission system.

5.2     VRA Asset Revaluation and Demarcation

The World Bank approved the use of funds from the IDA Public Enterprise and
Privatization Technical Assistance (PEPTA) Credit 2877 to procure the services of a
professional firm to revalue and demarcate the assets of the Volta River Authority (VRA)
in line with the entities intended to be established under the Reform Programme.

A Consulting Firm was engaged to carry out the asset revaluation and demarcation
assignment. The assignment was completed by end of June 2004, following which the
Asset Revaluation Report has been submitted to the World Bank office in Accra and
other stakeholders.

5.3     Formation of single Distribution Company and implementation of
        Management Support Services Contract for ECG

A Committee, comprising of representatives from Ministry of Energy, VRA; ECG, and
NED, was formed for the purpose of assisting the Ministry of Energy in creating the new
Distribution Company comprising ECG and NED. The Committee submitted its final
report to the Ministry. The Ministry of Energy subsequently tasked the Board of ECG
and VRA to work out modalities and programme for implementing the merger of ECG
and NED. The merged company will retain the name of Electricity Company of Ghana
Limited.

5.4     ECG Management Support Services Agreement (MSSA)


                                              44

In pursuance of the objective of improving the management and operations of the new
distribution company, it is intended to procure the services of a Management Services
Provider (MSP), under a Performance-based Management Support Services Agreement,
to provide management support services for the new distribution .company (ECG
Company Limited). To that effect, a request for "Expression of Interest (EOI)" in the
Management Support Services Contract, which was cleared by the International
Development Association (IDA), was advertised in October 2003.

Eighteen (18) firms responded to the EOI. Six (6) out of the eighteen (18) firms were
short-listed.

A Transaction Advisor was hired to assist the Ministry of Energy in the process towards
selecting the Management Services Provider (MSP).

A draft Request for Proposals (RfP) for the assignment was prepared. The Ministry of
Energy subsequently finalised the RfP in June 2005 after receiving comments on the
document from: (i) VRA; (ii) ECG; (iii) SECO; and (iv) World Bank. Upon failure to
produce an evaluation report of the EOI's, it was decided that the RfP be sent to all
eighteen companies which submitted EOIs. The RfP was subsequently withdrawn to be
re-issued after a thorough review.

5.5     Implementation of Communication Action Plan (CAP)

The Ministry of Energy recognized the need for effective communication on the Reform
Programme in order to facilitate its implementation. In that respect a Communication
Consultant was engaged in to assist the Ministry with the implementation of a
Communication Action Plan (CAP).

A documentary on the Power Sector Reform Programme has been prepared. The
Consultant has also finalized a brochure on the reforms and in addition is in the process
of setting up a website for disseminating information of the Power Sector Reform
Programme.

5.6     Development of the rules for of the operation of the national grid and the
electricity market

Draft rules were prepared by Synex Consulting Engineers, advisors to the PSRC for the
operation of the national grid. The Transmission Restructuring Committee under the
PSRS was also formed to address issues related to the formation of the new transmission
company and the preparation of rules for operation of the national transmission system.
The transmission company has since been registered as Ghana Grid Company.

5.7     Formation of a single Distribution Company and Implementation of
Management Services Contract for ECG




                                            45

The Ministry of Energy, in its letter of June 15, 2005 impressed upon the Boards of ECG
and VRA to work out modalities for implementing the merger of ECG and NED. The
Boards of ECG and VRA therefore established Committees to address various aspects of
the merger between ECG and NED. The following committees were set up:

    (i)    Human Resource Committee
    (ii)   Technical Committee
    (iii)  Finance and Commercial Operations Committee

           · Recommendations on the pros and cons of the merger was submitted to
               Cabinet and Cabinet decided that electricity distribution for the entire
               country should be handled by a single company (ECG) with five (5)
               subsidiary companies which includes NED.


ELECTRICITY DEMAND MANAGEMENT COMPONENT

This component was initiated in 1995 as an integral part of the Takoradi Thermal Power
Project and was implemented by The Energy Foundation under the auspices of the
Ministry of Energy. The main objectives were:

    1. Assist Ghana to develop and implement market based strategies and programmes
        to promote and sustain the application of energy efficiency and conservation
        measures at the end-user level.
    2. To provide support MoE to develop and implement (pricing and non-pricing)
        policy instruments that provide win-win incentives for all key actors.

    Activities undertaken

    (i)    Institutional Development and Local Capacity Building to develop local
           technological infrastructure to deliver energy efficiency programmes.
    (ii)   Monitoring and targeting energy management service.
    (iii)  Electric motor improvement studies.
    (iv)   Market Surveys to investigate the patterns of energy use, variations in demand
           during peak and off peak periods by each main categories of consumers of
           ECG and VRA/NED.
    (v)    Pilot Scheme on "Electricity Efficiency and Load Management" to stimulate
           action by industrial/mining, commercial and large municipal consumers to
           improve efficiency of electricity use and promote private sector participation
           in delivering energy management services.
    (vi)   Power Factor Improvement.
    (vii)  To provide codes and standards to guide the supply and service of electric
           motors and drives as well as other domestic appliances.
    (viii) Information dissemination and public education.




                                             46

DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM UPGRADE PROJECT (DSUP)



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


1.0     INTRODUCTION


The World Bank Board, on July 7, 2004 approved the reallocation of about US$15.2
million from the un-disbursed funds from the Thermal Power Credit 2682-GH to the
Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) to implement its Distribution System Upgrading
Project (DSUP). The Credit was to expire on the December 31, 2006.


The DSUP was targeted at improving the following areas:

1.     Quality of service particularly in the areas of customer care.

2.     Reliability of supply in certain targeted areas.

3.     Overall Management of ECG.

4.     Revenue Cycle Management/Cash Flow.


The DSUP initially comprised the following components:

-      Sub-transmission (33kV system) developments in Accra, Tema and Kumasi
       targeted at improvement in supply reliability, reduction in system technical losses
       and expansion of the capacity of the sub-transmission networks in these major
       urban areas.

-      HV/LV system improvements target in areas that were to provide greater benefits
       in area of supply quality and reduce system technical losses and permit new
       customers to be connected.

-      Metering, billing and revenue collection improvements targeted at reducing non-
       Technical losses and improving revenue collection. Unfortunately this
       component could not be implemented.

-      Voice and data communication (WAN) project in Greater Accra which will
       enhance the benefits of the billing and revenue collection component and improve
       efficiency of ECG's operations in Greater Accra. This component was partly
       implemented, using ECG's own Funds.




                                             47

-       Technical assistance for strengthening the management of ECG in the areas of
        performance-based management techniques, forecasting of energy purchase and
        treasure, management, tariffs formulation and capital contributions from
        customers.


2.0     CHALLENGES IN IMPLEMENTING THE PROJECT

Some challenges were encountered during project implementation. These include;

   Delays in establishment of Letter of Credit (L/C)'s

   This resulted in a supplier requesting for additional money due to the delay. However,
   ECG managed to resolve this amicably. The delay also prevented one supplier from
   executing the contract which resulted in ECG not being able to utilize the money.

   Delays in obtaining No Objection from the World Bank

   ECG had to pre-finance some of the training programs because of the delays in
   obtaining No Objection. The amount was, however, reimbursed to ECG by the
   World Bank. On a number of occasions ECG had to ask the supplier to extend its bid
   validity which he did willingly.

   Inefficient communication and mailing system

   The challenge of inefficient communication system contributed to the delay in
   obtaining No Objection. Free flow of information was also delayed as a result of this.

   Delays in clearing goods/materials from the port

   ECG had to pay more demurrage charges due to the late clearance of goods at the port
   and this affected its financial standing. It is expected that subsequent projects will
   come with waivers from VAT and taxes to prevent this problem recurring.


LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

Government through the implementation of the project gathered immense experience
particularly from the various consultants that helped in conceptualizing and drafting of
legislation for the regulatory institutions (PURC and EC) in the energy sector. The
PURC has gone on since 1997 to provide effective tariff setting services for the country
and helped to limit the indiscriminate passing on of the inefficiencies of the utilities to the
consumer. The EC has helped through licensing to streamline the activities of
participants in the sector.

The project unfortunately spanned an unreasonable period of more than a decade which
resulted in the loss of institutional memory and sometimes a loss of momentum in the


                                              48

achievement of its goals and objectives. In the future, this would definitely be avoided
by the establishment of a dedicated project implementation unit to coordinate the various
subcomponents so as to ensure timely execution of project activities.

   1. Frustrations in delays in obtaining `NO Objections" for procurement were eased
       only after the appointment of a new Task Manager.

   2. It was also profitable a Team from ECG to visit Washington where the New Task
       Manager and staff from the Procurement, Disbursement and Legal Departments
       of the Bank resolved outstanding issues to pave the way for expedited approvals.

   3. Face to face meetings with Bank staff during crucial periods of project
       implementation will greatly facilitate to achieve project objectives.

   4. It is also very important to have meetings with manufacturers to clear issues
       regarding equipment specifications to avoid the delivery of equipment that might
       not fit a system that is being upgraded.

   5. Energy Conservation was not a high priority for management largely because the
       attention of senior management was focused on some other strategic issues:

   6. Managers were averse to risk taking in connection with the country's situation at
       the time. Low-cost and capital cost opportunities of about two-year paybacks
       were moderately attractive but a payback of three years was less so, and a
       payback of four years was seen as totally unattractive.

   7. Decisions about conservation were not being made on a case-by-case basis but by
       integration into a long-term rehabilitation or development program for the overall
       industry.

   8. Energy efficiency improvement exercise targeting no and low-cost energy
       conservation opportunities did not require substantial financial resources, and
       were both feasible and highly profitable.

   9. Lack of appropriate funding for investment in energy conservation was cited
       frequently as a major barrier to realizing the substantial potential identified in the
       industrial sector.

   10. Audited industries in Ghana had an overall sense about general ways to improve
       energy efficiency but the quantified information based on the energy-using
       systems was extremely poor.

   11. The activity was driven by the Ministry of Energy which combined its policy-
       oriented functions and implementation of energy efficiency projects, which was a
       commercial activity. It was thus regarded as interference by the Ministry in
       market mechanisms.



                                             49

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Acres International in association with Ontario Hydro (1992). Ghana Power Sector Tariff Study,
February 1992, Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada.

Aide-Memoires (Pre-Appraisal - Supervion/Implementation Support Missions: April 2003 -
November 2006).

Ghana Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group ­ April 1995.

Ghana Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group ­ April 2000.

Ghana Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group ­ April 2004.

Ministry of Energy (2003). Identification and Economic Justification of the DSUP. 01-Oct-03.

Rezaiyan, John A. (2006). Takoradi Thermal Power Station, Takoradi, Ghana. Project Review
Report, 29-May-06.

Volta River Authority (VRA) (2003). TK-1 Completion Report. 18-May-03.

Volta River Authority (VRA) (2003). TK-2 Completion Report. 18-May-03.

World Bank, Industry and Energy Operations Division, West Central Africa Department (1995).
Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Ghana, Thermal Power Project. No.12252-GH, 18-Jan-95.

World Bank, Industry and Energy Operations Division, West Central Africa Department (1995).
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IDA to the ED. No.P-6218-GH, 18-
Jan-95.

World Bank, Quality Assurance Group (2004). Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA) of the
Ghana Thermal Power Plant project. 01-Oct-04

World Bank/Procurement Department (2007). Ghana Thermal Project/ DSUP. Procurement Post
Review of 7 (No.) Goods Contracts and 1 (No.) Consulting Contract. Credit No. 2682-1-GH,
Project ID: P000926. June 22, 2007, Accra, Ghana.

World Bank/West Africa Country Dept. IV (1995). Memorandum of the President of the IDA to
the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the WBG for the Republic of Ghana.
14372-GH, 17-Apr-95.

World Bank/West Africa Country Dept.10 (2000). Memorandum of the President of the IDA and
IFC to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the WBG for the Republic of
Ghana. 20185-GH, 29-Jun-00.

World Bank/West Africa Country Dept.10 (2007). Ghana Country Assistance Strategy of the
World Bank Group. 39822-GH, 31-May-07.

World Bank/West Africa Country Dept.10/IFC Sub-Saharan Africa Dept. (2004). Memorandum
of the President of the IDA and IFC to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy
of the WBG for the Republic of Ghana. 27838-GH, 20-Feb-04.


                                                50

                                                                                                                                       GHANA                                                                                                                                                    MAURITANIA


                                                                                          THERMAL POWER PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                MALI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NIGER
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                   TRANSMISSION LINES (OVERHEAD):                                                                                                                                                                                                  BURKINA FASO
                         EXISTING SUBSTATIONS:                                                                                                                                                         SECONDARY ROADS
                                                                                                        225 kV                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Area of map
                            161/69 kV                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS
                                                                                                        161 kV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BENIN
                            161/33kV                                                                                                                                                                   PORTS                                                                              GUINEA

                                                                                                        69 kV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NIGERIA
                            161/11kV                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                  TOGO
                                                                                                        33 kV
                            69/33 kV                                                                                                                                                                   REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS                                                                                           CÔTE              GHANA
                                                                                                   POTENTIAL HYDRO POWER PLANTS
                            69/11kV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                   WITH UNINSTALLED CAPACITY                                                                           DISTRICT AND SUB-DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIBERIA
                            33/11 kV                                                               HYDRO POWER PLANTS                                                                                  REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  Accra
                                                                                                   WITH INSTALLED CAPACITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Gulf of Guinea



                                   3°                                                                         2°                                                                        1°       Red                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Volta
                                                                                                   BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                hite Volta                 0°                                                        1°




               11°                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bawku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bawku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11°
                                                                                                              Tumu
                                                                                                               umu                                       Navrongo
                                                                                                                                                         Navrongo                                    Bongo
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bongo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zebilla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zebilla

                                                                                                                                                                          Bolgatanga
                                                                                                                                                                          Bolgatanga                                         REGION
                                          LawraLawra                                                                                         Sandema
                                                                                                                                             Sandema                                                EAST
                                          JirapaJirapa                                                                                                   UPPER
                                                                                                                                               Sisili
                                                                          UPPER WEST                                                                                                                 Pwalugu
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pwalugu                  Gambaga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gambaga

                                                         Nadawli
                                                         Nadawli                     REGION                                                                                    Walewale alewale


                                                                                                                                                Kulpawn

                                                                        Wa
                                                                        Wa
               10°                                                                                                                                                                      W                                                                                                                                                                        10°
                                                                                                                                                                                         hite                                                Gushiegu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gushiegu
                                                                                                                                                                   Kulpawn
                                                                                                                                                                   Kulpawn                   Volt                                                             Saboba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Saboba
                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Savelugu
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Savelugu
                                                      Koulbi
                                                      Koulbi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BENIN
                                                                                                                                                                               Tolon
                                                                                                                                                                                olon                Tamale
                                                                                                                                                                                                      male                                                Yendi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ye

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zabzugu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Zabzugu
                                                                                                                                       NORTHERN REGION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O
                                                                        Bole
                                                                        Bole                            Damongo
                                                                                                        Damongo                                                                                                                             Daka

               9°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Juale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Juale                                                                                     9°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bimbila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bimbila



                         CÔTE                           Ntereso
                                                        Ntereso       Black Volta                                        Jambito
                                                                                                                         Jambito

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salaga
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salaga
                       D´IVOIRE
                                                                                      Lanka
                                                                                      Lanka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nkwanta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nkwanta


                                                                                                                                     Kintampo
                                                                                                                                     Kintampo

               8°                                                                          BRONG-AHAFO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8°

                                                                                                              REGION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kete-Krachi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kete-Krachi                 REGION
                                                                                                      Wenchi
                                                                                                         enchi                                                     Atebubu
                                                                                                                                                                   Atebubu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kwame Danso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kwame Danso
                                                    New Drobo
                                                    New Drobo                                                                                                Pru
                                                                                             Techiman
                                                                                               echiman                               Nkoranza
                                                                                                                                     Nkoranza
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sene                                                              Kadjebi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kadjebi

                                              BerekumBerekum
                                                                             Sunyani
                                                                             Sunyani                                                                                                                                                                                 Jasikan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jasikan
                                                                                                                                                         Ejura
                                                                                                                                                         Ejura                                                                                             Lake

                                         Dormaa-AhenkroDormaa-Ahenkro                                                                                    Afram                                                                                            Volta

                                                                                                             BekyemBekyem                                                                                                                                                            Hohoe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hohoe
                                                                                                                                                    MampongMampong                                                     Obosum
                                                             KenyasiKenyasi                                                                                                                                                   Odonkawkrom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Odonkawkrom
               7°                                                    No.1No.1                                ASHANTI                                        REGION                                                                                           Kpandu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kpandu
                                                                                             TepaTe                      OfinsoOfinso          AgonaAgona                                                                                                                                                                                                         7°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EASTERN
                                                       GoasoGoaso                              MankransoMankranso                                       EffiduaseEffiduase                                                                                             Dayi
                                                                                                                                               EjisuEjisu
                                                                                                                         Kumasi
                                                                                                                         Kumasi
                                                                                                              NkawieNkawie
                                                                                                                                                 KonongoKonongo            JuasoJuaso                          MpraesoMpraeso                                                          Ho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ho
                                                                                                     fin                                        KuntanaseKuntanase                                                     REGION
                                                                                                    O
                                                                       BibianiBibiani                           MansoManso                  BekwaiBekwai                                                                                Begoro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Begoro                                                   AT
                                                                                                                NkwantaNkwanta                                                                                  Birim
                                             JuabesoJuabeso
                                                                                             AsawinsoAsawinso                                                                           AbiremAbirem
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Senchi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Senchi             Akosombo Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Akosombo Dam                                                 To
                                                                                                                   ObuasiObuasi                                                                                 Kibi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kibi                        OdumasiOdumasi                                                                     Togo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KroboKrobo           Kpong Dam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kpong Dam                       VOL   Akatsi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Akatsi
                                                                                                                                                   New
                                                                                                                                                   New                                  Kade
                                                                                                                                                                                        Kade                               Koforidua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Koforidua                                                 Adidome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Adidome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Somanya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Somanya
                                                                                                                                                   Adubiase
                                                                                                                                                   Adubiase
               6°                                                    Asuaso
                                                                     Asuaso                                                                                                                                        Suhum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Suhum                                                                                                    Denu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Denu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Akropong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Akropong                                      Sogakofe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sogakofe                                                           6°


                                          EnchiEnchi             onaT                                        DunkwaDunkwa                     Awisam
                                                                                                                                               wisam                        Oda
                                                                                                                                                                            Oda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Asamankese
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Asamankese                      Dodowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dodowa                                                               Keta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Keta
                                                                             AsankranguaaAsankranguaa                                                                                                                                    Nsawam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nsawam
                                                                 Jamuro
                                                                 Jamuro                                                                 Pra      FosoFoso                                                                                                                                Ada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ada
                                                       WESTERN                                                                                                                                                     Amasaman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Amasaman

                                                         REGION                                                                             Twifo Praso
                                                                                                                                               ifo Praso                  EsikumaEsikuma                                                                   Tema
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Te       GREATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SwedruSwedru
                            To                                                                                                               CENTRAL                                                                                         ACCRAACCRA
                       Côte D'Ivoire                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ACCRA
                                                                                                                                              REGION                                             AjumakuAjumaku                                                                                                     1°

                                                           Tanoso
                                                             noso                                                                                                                                                  WinnebaWinneba
                                                                                      Ankobra                  Tarkwa
                                                                                                                 rkwa                      Abatumeso
                                                                                                                                           Abatumeso                      DunkwaDunkwa
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ApamApam                                                                                                                           Site location
                                                                                                                                                                              SaltpondSaltpond                                                                                                                Nyankrom                            Populated areas
                                                                                                                  DaboasiDaboasi          Heman
                                                                                                                                          Heman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Roads
                                                                                                                                                                  CapeCape
               5°                       Half Assini
                                        Half Assini                                                                                            ElminaElmina                                                                                                                                                                                       Transmission lines
                                                                                                                                                                  Coast
                                                                                                                                                                  Coast                                                                                       5°                                                                                  Rivers
                                                                                                                                     Sekondi
                                                                                                                                     Sekondi     See Inset for More Details                                                                                                  Inchaban                                                             Feeders
                                                                              AximAxim             AgonaAgona              Takoradi
                                                                                                                              koradi
                                                                                               JunctionJunction                                                                                                                                                              PERMANENTPERMANENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOWNSITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TOWNSITE
                                                                                                                                                                                     Gulf                        of             Guinea                                                                                                      Atowbaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Anankwa                                                    Aboesi

SEPTEMBER         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ir
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                    0                            50                                   100                                150                                                                                                                              IBRD
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                           reviR                                          Aboadze
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                              KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                        35689
         2007                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Anankwari                       FENCED AREA OF

                                 3°                                                                          2°                                                                 1°                                                                        0°                                                         THERMAL PLANT          Gulf of Guinea

