z"/\VV -/
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P6360-HR
MEMORANDTIM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$128 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MAY 27, 1994
M I CROGRA}f1 S
Report Nc,: .U-   fi66  HR
Type: MOP'
This document has a restricted distibution and n .,   *
their offili  duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed without World Bank authozation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of currency: Croatian dinar (HrD'
US$ 1.00      =     6,168.8 HrD  (average for March, 1994)
6,434 (average for February, 1994)
6,597 (average for January, 1994)
6,433 (average for December, 1993)
1,000 HrD     =     US$0.16   (March 1994)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIB    -     European Investment Bank
EBRD  -      European Bank for R1construction and Development
GOC   -      Goverunent of Croatia
HEP   -      Hrvatska Elektropriveda (Croatian Power)
HC     -     Hrvatske Ceste (Croatian Roads)
HKBO  -      Hrvatska Kreditna Banka Za Obnovu (Croatian Credit Bank
for Reconstruction)
HV     -     Hrvatska Vodoprivreda (Croatian Water Management
Company)
HZ     -     Hrvatske 2eljeznice (Croatiam Railways)
MAF   -      Ministry of Agriculture, F  estry, and Water Management
MEC   -      Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF   -      Ministry of Finance
MOH   -      Ministry of Health
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Croatia
Beneficiaries:            Ministries of Agriculture, Education, and Health
Hrvatske Ceste (Croatian Roads)
Hrvatska Eleklroprivreda (Croatian Electric Power Company)
Hrvatska Kreditna Banka Za Obnovu (Croatian Credit Bank for
Reconstruction)
Hrvatska Vodoprivreda (Croatian Water Management Company)
Hrvatske Zeljeznice (Croatian Railways)
Amount,                   US$ 128 million equivalent
Terms:                    17 years, including a four-year grace period, at IBRD's standard
variable interest rate.
Financing Plan:           Government           US$  62.8 million'
Households (labor)   US$  14.5 million
World Bank           USS 128.0 million
Total                US$ 205.3 million
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   Not applicable. A Technical Annex is attached.
Maps:                     Nos. IBRD  24458R, 24459R, and 24492R.
This report is based on the findings of three missions; the first visited Croatia in October/November 1992 and
comprised Mmes./Messrs. N. Krafft (mission leader), A. Etwan (infrastructure economist), W. Cao (povwer
engineer), R. Hamilton (energy economist), R. MacEwen (sanitary engineer), U. Marggraf (railway engineer),
P. Parker (transport economist), L. Revuelta (highway engineer), C. Wamaars (agricultural specialist), and D.
Cook, M. Melegari, and M. Zlatid (consultants). During the second mission in Febnruy 1993, G. Luhman
(financial analyst) and Messrs. Bral and Dauphin of the World Bank/FAO Cooperative Programme also worked
on technical aspects of the agriculture component; and Mr. G. Brest van Kempen (consultant) worked on the
technical aspects of the community reconstruction component. A third (updating) mission in April, 1994
consisted of Mmes./Messrs. Elwan (mission leader), Revuelta, Cao, MacEwen, Warnars, Rutledge (financial
aspects), and Kickigina (lawyer). Country economic information was provided by 0. Godron. The project was
reviewed by an Ad Hoc AdvisoTy Group, consisting of Mmes./Messrs. C. Blanchi, A. Harth, A. Kreimer, T.
Persaud, M. Pommier, and G. Russell. The managing Division Chief is Hans. J. Apitz and the Department
Director is Kemal Dervis. The Regional Vice President is Wilfried Tbalwitz.
This         has a restd dstribudon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbclosed without World Bank authorzaton.  i
'Including funds from HV ($ 12m), HKBO ($ 8.2 m), and HEP ($37.7m)



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR AN EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.    I submit the following memorandum and reconmnendation on a proposed loan to the Republic of
Croatia for the equivalent of US$ 128 million to help finance an Emergency Reconstruction Project. The
loan would be at IBRD's standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years. including 4 years
of grace.
Background
2.    The war in Croatia was intense and highly destructive. In addition to the loss of thousands of
lives, there were miles of territory where no building was left standing. In all, 590 towns and villages
were affected: destruction was almost total in 35 settlements; 34 others suffered heavy damage. Among
the towns in these last two groups are: Vukovar, Gospi6, Osijek, Dubrovnik, Slavonski Brod, Zadar,
Drni§, gibenik, Vinkovci, Karlovac, Otocac, Pakrac, tupanja, and Lipik.
3.    Physical infrastructure and buildings suffered considerable damage, estimated by the Government
at about US$ 20 billion. Roads, railroads, teleconmnunications, and energy transmission lines were blown
up, and virtually every major bridge along the Sava river was destroyed. Large sections of two major
highways were unusable, either because of damage or because they ran through inaccessible areas.
Traffic was re-routed to smaller roads, which suffered accelerated deterioration because of overuse. The
situation was similar in the railways network. The airports at Dubrovnik and Zadar were heavily
damaged. Thousands of kilometers of electricity transmission and distribution lines, several power plants,
and many transmission towers and other installations were also heavily damaged. Sections of the Adriatic
oil pipeline system were closed. Items such as railway ties, vehicles, and industrial machinery
disappeared or, if not easily moved, were destroyed.
4.    The war affected a wide range of public buildings. cultural and religious buildings suffered
particularly, with 245 historical places, 675 individual monuments and 350 churches, chapels and
belltowers damaged. Schools and hospitals were also hard hit: some 470 educational buildings and 43
health services buildings were damaged, as were hotels and guest houses along the southern coast. The
historic city of Dubrovnik was heavily shelled. However, housing and agricuilture seem to have suffered
the most devastating effects. About 20% of the housing stock within tile area affected by war was
damaged or destroyed. In villages. the damage included agricultural buildings and aE ricultural equipment
housed within the buildings. A larg- proportion of the livestock dlisappeared or was killed; mu^h of the
undamaged equipment also disappeared. Looting and theft of machinery and equipment, and the placing
of land mines on agricuitural land increased the level of destruction and disruption. Of the nearly two
million hectares normally under cultivation in Croatia, more than 25% was madt inaccessible by the war.
Many border villages, together with their fields, became the front line of war, and had to be temporarily
evacuated.



-2-
S.    The war caused the displacement of some 350,000 people from within Croatia, while more than
360,000 Bosnian refugees took refuge in Croatia. Some 40% of the displaced people and refugees were
initially lodged in hotels along the Adriatic coast; 35% were in private family housing, usually in the
larger towns, and 25% were accomnodated in collective camps. With the end of hostilities along the
front line and the restoration of many villages to Government control, returning farmers faced partially
or totally destroyed homes and farm buildings, aad missing or darmaged equipment. In many areas, until
mine clearing programs were carried out, farmers were initially unable to cultivate fields. Although
many families have now returned to their homes, the current total of about 500,000 displaced persons
and refugees constitutes a burden equivalent to about 10% of the population of about 5 million
(comparable to over 25 million people in proportion to the U.S. population). While there has been a
great deal of interna..onal humanitarian assistance. the direct and indirect economic burden of this refugee
population is a great challenge for the government of Croatia (GOC). Private citizens have also been
lending support, and currently provide shelter for 75% of the displaced people.
6.    Croatia emerged from the war with about one-third of its pre-war territory outside the control of
the Government, including about 25% of its agricultural land. These areas have been designated as U.N.
Protected Areas (UNPAs) since January, 1992. The war stopped in early 1992, but limited hostilities
continued to take place from time to time around these areas. After long negotiations, there was a
breakthrough early this year, and the cease-fire of March 1994, negotiated on the premisses of the
Embassy of the Russian Federation in Zagreb and reinforced by the withdrawal of personnel and
weapons, appears to be holding well. There has also been a major change in the relations between
Croatia and Bosnia. The "Washington Agreement" signed recently (March 1994) between the republics
of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina on both a federation within Bosnia-Herzegovina and a confederation
between the two republics, has effectively ended ihostilities between Croatian and Bosnian forces in
Bosnia, and opened the way for active cooperation to rebuild the shattered economy of those areas in
Bosnia under the new government's control. Further agreements have been reached in May on a detailed
constitution for the new federation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and on the distribution of ministerial
responsibilities in the new government.
7.    Economic Background. Prior to the war, Croatia was the second richest republic of former
Yugoslavia, after Slovenia, with a per capita income of about US$3.350 equivalent. It enjoys a good
geographical location -- close to Italy and Hungary, a considerable potential for tourism including most
of former Yugoslavia's Adriatic coast, and a well-educated workforce. Croatia had a well-developed,
open economy, with manufacturing (electrical machinery, textiles. foodstuffs and chemicals) accounting
for about 30% of gross domestic product (GDP), services for about 60%, and the total of imports and
exports for about 50% of GDP. The disruption of inter-republic trade resulting from the break-up of
former Yugoslavia, and the war impact on production and tourism activities brought about a 25 % drop
in output, from US$16 to 12 billion during 1991-1993, with per capita income falling to about US$2,500.
The most affected sectors were those which suffered either from the disruption of trade with former
Yugoslavia (e.g., shipbuilding, metalwork, and chemicals) or from the war-related destruction and traffic
disruption (tourism, construction, transportation). The decline in production was accompanied by a
significant reduction in the level of employment, by about 25 % over the whole period, and by the near-
doubling of the unemployment rate, from about 9% at end-1990 to about 18% in early 1994. In addition,
Croatia suffered from the loss of all foreign exchange reserves, that were kept by the National Bank of
Yugoslavia, and is not expected to have ready access to foreign financing due to the ongoing discussions
on the foreign debt of former Yugoslavia. At stake is the breakdown among Republics of the fraction
of former Yugoslavia's debt that could not be allocated to individual borrowers (about US$1 billion for
Official creditors and US$3 billion for private creditors). Whereas the Paris Club proposes a breakdown
based on each Republic's share of former Yugoslavia's quota with the IMF (i.e., 28.5% for Croatia), a



-3-
solution that has not yet been accepted formally by Croatia, commercial creditors are requesting Croatia -
- as well as Slovenia - to assume a much higher proportion of former Yugoslavia's debt, based on the
joint and several liability provision agreed by all Republics. The resolution of this issue will be very
difficult.
8.    Over the past two years, Croatia has had to tackle simultaneously the problems of a war and of
a transition economy. The war took a heavy toll on the economy. It imposed extraordinary costs in
terms of supporting the refugees and displaced persons, estimated at about 5 % of GDP in 1993. It also
resulted in a 90% drop in tourism receipts, that used to bring a US$2 billion annual contribution to
Croatia's balance of payments before the war. In addition, Croatia has wraiy of the usual problems of
a post-conmmunist economy: a sizeable public sector largely shielded from market competition; enterprise
sector run under the so-called 'social ownership' system with the absence of a real owner and every
incertive for decapitalization of firms (losses of the enterprise sector amounted to some 7-8% of GDP
in 1993); and the utilization of bauks, themselves owned by their enterprise creditors, to finance the
quasi-fiscal losses of enterprises. Tensions on fiscal accounts, as well as the financing by the banking
system of the losses of the more inefficient public and formerly socially-owned enterprises, fuelled
inflation which reached an annual rate of over 1500% in 1993.
9.    Recent Anic Devewuin   Croatia has been addressing these challenges courageously,
in two distinct phases. During most of 1992 and 1993, it conducted crisis management policies,
endeavoring to maintain its external competitiveness while trying to avoid falling into hyperinflation.
Building on its initial success, it was then able to embark. in late 1993, on a full-fledged stabilization
program that has delivered impressive early results.
10.   During 1992-93, one of the primary goals of economic policy was to achieve the conditions of
monetary autonomy, and in particular to build up an adequate level of foreign reserves. Following the
introduction, in December 1991, of a new currency, the Croatian dinar, Croatia conducted its foreign
exchange policy through a managed float aimed at maintaining a constant real exchange rate vis-1-vis the
currencies of its main trading partners. The resilience of exports, and the progressive resumption of
tourism in those areas of the country not affected by the war, allowed significant current account
surpluses of about US$820 million and US$300 million in 1992 and 1993, or 6.8% and 2.5% of GDP,
respectively; this, with the service of the external debt suspended since the breakup of the former
Yugoslavia, enabled the Central Bank to build-up its foreign exchange reserves, which increased to
US$170 million at end-1992 and US$610 million at end-1993 (1.6 months of imports).
11.   While this inflow of foreign exchange saved the economy from strangulation, it appears to have
been a key contributor to inflation, together with the crawling peg exchange system that contributed to
the feeding of inflationary expectations. To restore stability, fiscal and internal monetary policies were
progressively tightened. The general government deficit decreased from 9.4% of GDP in 1991 (on an
accrual basis), to less than I % of GDP in 1993. This was primarily achieved through stringent
management of expenditures which decreased by about 6% of GDP between 1991 and 1993; drastic
reduction in subsidies to public enterprises were made possible by tariff increases. and increased fnancial
discipline was imposed on social expenditures (e.g. in the health sector). In parallel, the Central Bank
also made substantial progress in reforming the monetary policy apparatus. All selective credits were
eliminated, the rediscount window closed, and interventions in the foreign exchange market progressively
became the main instrument to influence bank liquidity. Despite these efforts, confidence could not be
restored, the demand for money kept decreasing and inflation kept accelerating, from an annual average
of 123% in 1991, to 665 % in 1992, and 1517% in 1993. In August - September 1993, monthly inflation
rates were close to 30%.



-4-
12.   In early October 1093, the authorities launched a comprehensive stabilization package that has
delivered impressive results so far. The program was essentially based on a foreign exchange rate
nominal anchor, following an initial 20% devaluation, and was supported by extremely tight incomes,
fiscal and monetary policies. For a nine-month period, the wage bill of non-private enterprises was set
by decree based on ex-ante target inflation rates; the fiscal deficit was reduced to almost zero, with cash
expenditures inontored monthly, and strict targets for base money creation were pre-announced. After
an initial surge due to the devaluation of the currency, inflation was curbed over one month, and
remained slightly negative between November 1993 and April 1994 (minus 3%, cumulative).
Remonetization of the economy started to take place, with real dinar money increasirg by about 90%
during the period, and the currency has appreciated beyond its pre-stabilization levels, contributing to
disinflation.
13.   Next Challenges. In spite of this early success, sustaining stabilization and resuming growth will
be a particularly difficult task, and tvo major challenges lie ahead. First, ifurther progress needs to be
achieved toward the systemic transformation of the economy., i.e., enterprise and bank reform, in order
to force reai;ocation of the country's resources away from loss-generating activ,ities, to growth-generating
ones. Enterprise transformation has begun, as the transformation of practically all socially-owned
enterprises into joint-stock companies took place during 1992-93, putting an end to the previous
governance system - typical of former Yugoslavia - where no real owner would protect the enterprise
capital. But privatization has been limited so far to employee buy-outs of about one-third, and the
smaller, of the previously socially-owned enterprises. As to the remaining enterprises, privatization
appears to have stalled, due to lack of clear political signals and misplaced revenue-raising objectives.
In the meantime, the authorities' limited administrative capabilities place severe constraints on the
effective exercise of their new ownership rights, postponing much- needed restruct;lring in many Croatian
enterprises. As a resuli, the enterprise sector has insufficiently adjnsted to new economic conditions and,
through its ownership of a substantial part of the banking system, continues to force allocation of credit
to loss-makers. This has now resulted in an incipient crisis in the banking system, where a number of
banks are acknowledged to be insolvent and illiquid. The Government intends to address banking sector
problems, including the governance and incentive framework, and has already submitted to Parliament
the enabling legislation to that effect. But there will be a need to more closely link bank rehabilitation
to real sector privatization and restructuring; this is intended to become one of the early focus areas of
the World Bank assistance effort.
14.   Second, Croatia will face a considerable resource problem. Investment expenditure. both on
account of reconstruction and productive investment, is bound to increase rapidly if resumption of growth
is to take place in the near futuire. Enterprise restructuring will impose an additio-. burden on fiscal
accounts, particularly in the form of social expenditures. In addition, two years of across-the-board cuts
in public expenditure have caused considerable disruption in the delivery of essential public services, for
instance in the health sector, and will not be sustainable in the medium-term or even the short-term. On
the other hand, the potential for additional resources is likely to remain limited during the coming years.
External financing will likely be scarce until the debt allocation issue is solved and the political situation
in the region settles in earnest. On the domestic side, in view of the two past years' drop in incomes and
already high taxation levels, limited contributions are also to be expected.



Country Recovery Strategy
15.   The reconstruction-of damaged infrastructure, the return of displaced families to their homes, and
the reconstruction of damaged industrial and agricultural assets are priorities on GOC's agenda. Damaged
housing is a constraint to the resumption of tourism - tourist facilities are currently occupied by displaced
people and refugees, delaying the refurbishing of hotels. It is also a constraint to restoring agricultural
activity to pre-war levels, since much of the housing in villages suffered damage along with the damage
to agricultural assets. In all these priority sectors -- housing, agriculture, and infrastructure, the
responsible Government agencies have assessed the damage to the extent feasible, and priorities have been
identified. A reconstruction program for damaged industry would be defined in the light of current
restructuring and privatization plans, which place higher priority on privately-owned rather than socially-
owned enterprises.
Relations with the World Bank
16.   The Republic of Croatia became a member of the International Monetary Fund in January 1993;
and of the World Bank on February 25, 1993. Prior to this, despite the fact that it did not have the
benefit of membership or access to new lending, Croatia remained current on its debt payments to the
IBR.D respecting a February 1992 interim agreement with the Bank, whereby Croatia would assume debt
service obligations on those loans made to former Yugoslavia that benefitted borrowers located in Croatia.
Croatia became a member of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on April
15, 1993 and a country strategy paper was approved by EBRD's Board on April 20, 1993. A financial
protocol with the European Commnunity, as a basis for lending by the European Investment Bank (ElB),
is under consideration. Based on discussions on the reconstruction priorities of the various Government
agencies, the proposed project provides an essential input into the Government's program, by assisting
in high priority reconstruction activities necessary to restore the basic conditions for renewed economic
growth. The Bank is coordinating its reconstruction activities with EBRD, which plans to assist the
Government in the rehabilitation of the air navigation system and reconstruction of some power
distribution networks. EBRD is also working with the Bank on a transport project (pala. 17).
17.   Beyond the emergency reconstruction operation, the Bank plans to support the Government with
several investment lending operations; initially these would assist in the Government's priority areas of
infrastructure and agriculture. A first lending operation in the infrastructure sector woild assist the
Govermnent of Croatia in its investment program for the highway sector; in particular, it would reverse
the ongoing deterioration of the country's highway system and support additional reconstruction works,
beyond the priority assistance provided in the proposed project. This loan is currently under preparation,
in cooperation with EBRD. Additional Bank support could be in the areas of social safety nets, energy,
and housing. Adjustment lending could follow an arrangement with the IMF, and would focus on
financial sector reform and ownership/privatization issues; at the same time, the Bank would work closely
with the IMF on fiscal reform and stabilization. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) will be prepared
in FY95, and will have to include a careful analysis of the national and regional political environment.
18.   Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The urgent need to repair and replace war-damaged
infrastructure and other assets, in an economic and social environment overburdened by the presence of
refugees who have nowhere else to go, constitute circumstances that the first Bank operation is designed
to address. The Bank is well placed to assist GOC in defining pr;orities for reconstruction, to ensure that
priority tasks are tackled first, and that reconstruction expenditures are conmnitted and disbursed within
a ftamework consistent with reforms planned in the enterprise and other sectors.



-6 -
19.   Project Objectives. T he primary objective of the proposed operation is to assist the Government
in restoring production levels, by easing some of the c.itical physical constraints caused by war-related
damage. To this end. the project would support the Goverunment in its reconstruction program, focussing
on the repair or reconstruction of infrastructure, on the repair or replacement of agricultural assets, and
on assisting in the reinstatement of displaced families through the repair of damaged housing, schools and
health facilities, and local infrastructure networks.
Project Description
20.   The project would provide funds for:
(i)    Roads: the replacement of critical road maintenance equipment and spare parts lost
during the war.
(ii)3   Railways: priority items including (a) spare parts for diesel locomotives, rolling stock,
and track maintenance machines; (b) a minimum replenishment of the depleted stock of
materials for tracks, electrification, signalling, and telecomriunications; and (c)
replacement of small tools for track repairs.
(iii)   Power: (a) transmission interconnection in order to assure a reliable power supply to the
Zadar area; and (b) reconstruction of the Dubrovnik area distribution netwc.ks.
(iv)   Water Supply, Sewerage and Flood Control: (a) about 20 small scale water and
sewerage projects to repair wai -related damage; and (b) the refurbishing of flood control
systems through repair of damaged flood control embankments, water control structures,
monitoring and communications systems in the Sava River basin, and the replacement of
damaged construction and maintenance equipment.
(v)    Community Reconstruction Component: assistance to homeowners in priority
communities that have sustained substantial demage, in order to facilitate the return of
people to their homes, including: (a) financial assistance to homeowners for acquisition
of housing repair materials and services; (b) reconstruction of the minimum complement
of social infrastructure (particularly primary schools and primary health care facilities);
and (c) reconstruction of community-level water and sanitation facilities and low voltage
power networks. The housing repair loans will be repaid according to terms established
in a recent (November, 1993) law.
(vi)   Agriculture:  (a) assistance in rebuilding the national herds for milk and meat
production, through the provision of pregnant cows. goats. and mares to private farmers,
and through the strengthening of artificial insemination and veterinary services by
providing boars, special vehicles, and equipment; (b) partial replacement of lost tractors
and motor cultivators for private farmers; and (c) limited replacement of grain dryers.
Priority in the allocation of breeding stock and farm machinery would be given to private
farmers in the priority conununities. Farmers receiving breeding stock '.ould repay in
cash or in kind. In the case of farm machinery, farmers would also pay the 1z0l1 c-s. in
real terms over an agreed period, on an instalment purchase arrangement.
(vii)   Reconstruction Activities in Additional Areas: Some funds would be set aside for
reconstruction activities in the areas where the Government currently does not have full



-7 -
access, including the UNPA zones. The use of these funds, at the ii'itiative of the
Government, would be considered, prov; K  that the proposed reconstruction activities
satisty the same criteria as those already identified and agreed with the Bank, and that
they could be implemented safely and effectively, in accordance with the Bank's policies.
Details on the project comnponents are given in the Technical Annvx.
21.   Selection of priority communities. The damage sustained by many communities is such that
reconstruction efforts on several fronts -- housing, local infrastructure, social facilities, agricultural
equipment. etc. -- are needed simultaneously, in order to allow re-establish displaced households in their
communities. At the same time, lhe needs are larger than can be addressed by the proposed loan amount.
Assistance to scattered households throughout the areas damaged by war would spread the reconstruction
effort too thin to allow a resumption of normal community life, and would therefore risk not achieving
the objective of re-establishing communities. The component has therefore been designed to address
reconstruction needs in high priority communities only. 'the selection process aims at rapidly increasing
the stock of serviceable housing, thereby liberating some of the shelter and other resources being tied up
in urban or tourism areas. Priority was based on several criteria, including (i) the extent of damage in
the area -- first consideration was given to areas with a higher proportion of damaged housing units
(since those with iess damage would be better ahle to mobilize sufficient resources to address
reconstruction needs); (ii) maxinum efficiency -- i.e. in heavily damaged areas, communities with a high
proportion of units with easily repairable damage were identified, since this would allow more units to
be repaired with the available resources, and a larger number of displaced families to return to their
homes; and (ii) maximizing economic benefits - i.e., priority was given to areas where the potential
for resuming productive activities is greatest (as a proxy for this, priority was assigned to communities
with constant or growing populations and with viable agricultural production).
22.   Equity considerations arise in that households with more extensive damage (requiring rebuilding
rather than repair), at present are not eligible to receive the same kind of assistance. However, at this
time, the priority is to return people to their homes as efficiently as possible. The potential of extending
the scheme outlined above (priority communities selected on transparent and objective criteria) to a larger
number of comnunities and to other categories of damnage is good, and GOC has indicated an interest
in pursuing this potential when additional resources become available.
23.   Project Financing. For the major infrastructure components (roads, railways, and power), Bank
financing would cover only foreign exchange costs. The reconstruction of local networks, housing, and
social infrastructure, however, involves a large percentage of local costs. Because of the current severe
lack of financial resources in Croatia and the urgent need to make communities habitable again, the
proposed Bank loan would cover a small proportion (about 6%) of the local costs of the water supply,
sewerage, and flood control component, and a substantial portion (about 65 percent) of the local costs
of the conmnunity reconstruction component.
24.   Retroactive Financing. Up to US$ 25 million equivalent of expenditures incurred after June 1,
1993 would be eligible for retroactive financing.
25.   Project Implementation. The Government's sector agencies and ministries would be responsible
for implementation, under the overall coordination of the Hrvatska Kreditna Banka Za Obnovu (Croatian
Credit Bank for Reconstruction - HKBO). Specifically, the roads, railways, and power components
would be implemented by Hrvatske Ceste (HC), Hrvatske 2eljeznice (HZ), and Hrvatska Elektroprivreda
(HEP), respectively. Hrvatska Vodoprivreda (HV) would implement the flood control and drainage



-8 -
subcomponents, and supervise the implementation of water and sewerage subcomponents to be carried
out by local water utility companies. These four agencies are experienced in the Bank's procurement
procedures. HKBO would have overall responsibility for implementing the community reconstruction
component. It would be responsible for administering housing reconstruction loans, with the cooperation
of local government offices and local commercial banks, through a voucher system for the provision of
building materials, supplemented by cash advances to pay for contractor services, and repayments from
households. HKBO would a:so be responsible for coordinating the reconstruction of schools and health
facilities, as well as the reconstruction of low voltage power and water and sanitation networks within
the priority groups of communities: the actual works would be carried out by the Ministries of Education
and Culture (MEC) and of Health (MOH). HEP; and local water utility companies. respectively. The
Ministry of t.griculture, Forestry and Water Management (MAF) would have overall responsibility for
the agriculture component, with implementing agencies for each sub-comnponent. Details of these
arrangements are given in the Technical Annex.
26.   It is anticipated that the components will vary greatly with regard to ease of implementation,
which will b'G affected both by the level of administration involved (central, local, or individual
households and farmers), and by the level of experience of the implementing agency. For examp;e, the
roads and bridges, railways, and power components, involving equipment purchases and works on major
trunk infrastructure, would be implemented by experienced central agencies and are expected to be
relatively straightforward. Small works in water and sewerage involve local administrations, and at the
other extreme, the housing and agriculture components not only involve individual households and
farmers, but wou:' also be supervised by agencies which are relatively inexperienced with Bank
procedures. Project design therefore incorporates flexibility, both within these particular components,
and between components, in order to make use of experience gained during implemnentation. The overall
coordination role of HKBO will be important in ensuring smooth project execution.
27.   Agreements Reached. In order to maintain the flexibility of being able to reallocate funds as
necessary, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), as borrower, will allocate funds to the various exx-cuting
agencies, according to the amounts actually disbursed: these amounts would not need to be repaid to
MOF. Responsibilities for project implementation have been agreed as outlined in para. 25: the sector
agencies and ministries will be responsible for project implementation within their own components,
including procurement and preparing withdrawal applications. HKBO would have overall responsibility
for managing the loan account, on behalf of MOF, and submitting withdrawal applications to the Bank.
HKBO would also have overall responsibility for monitoring implementation progress, and for reporting
to the Bank. During negotiations, a list of priority communities for the agriculture and cormnunity
reconstruction components was agreed, as well as the procedures for selecting individual households and
farmers within those communities for priority assistance in termr. of housing and livestock, respectively.
It was agreed that the costs of the assistance to households for housing repair materials and services, and
to farmers for farm machinery, would be recovered through installment payments. It was also agreed
that, for the Water Supply, Sewerage and Flood Control, Agricult-e, and Community Reconstruction
components, disbursement would be conditional on approval of regicdl implementation programs, which
would be assessed by the Bank as to their capacity for effective implementation and sustainability.
28.   Enviromnental Aspects. The project would follow accepted Baitk procedures, and has been
assigned the environmental rating B. Any subcomponents which present an opportunity for enviromnental
enhancement will be designed accordingly, and all subcomponents will be monitored during supervision
to ensure that there is no degradation to the environment.



-9 -
29.    Benefits. The proposed project would assist in re-establishir.g some ot the conditions necessary
for restoring productivity, through reconstruction of basic infrastructure, the replacement of vital
agricultural assets, and by removing a main constraint to the resumption of normnal tourism levels. It will
also help in alleviating some of the effects of dislocation through the reconstruction of housing, and
minimum supporting infrastructure in communities hard hit by the effects of war, allowing a return of
displaced households to their communities.
3Q.   Risks. It must be recoginized that the proposed projert will be implemented in what is still a
volatile regional political environment. The Bank, and other international financial institutions, had to
wait until  .cisive progress was made with the Washington agreement and the cease-fire agreement
related to the protected zones despite the huge and pressing needs for reconstruction and the terriblfe
situation of the refugees. A risk still exists that renewed hostilities may slow down or stop project
implementation. However, the cease-fire within Croatia has now been observed for over 3 months, and
the peace process in Bosnia between the Croatian-blcked groups and the authorities in Sarajevo has made
remarkable progress. The use of regional implementation programs adds to the flexibility of project
design. Moreover, although the identified project components are limited to areas that are not contested,
the availability of funds to address reconstruction needs in areas currently not under the control of the
the Government is likely to contribute positively towards normalization. The risk of insufficient
coordination between the agencies involved will be addressed through the strong role being given to
HKBO, and through the provision of training in project managemnent to key staff. The risk of delays due
to lack of familiarity with Bank procedures is small, and will be addressed by the use of experienced local
procurement agents for some subcomponents, by the procurement seminars and other training for the
designated responsible staff of the implementing agencies and ministries, and by the flexibility of project
design.
31.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and reconmmend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1994
Attachments
Technical Armex
Maps.



- 10-
SCHEDUJLE A
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINA-NCING PLAN
COST                      FINANCING
COMPONENT                      Local   Foreign    Total   IBRD   Other  Total        5C
____ ____ _____CO__I_ _N NT__                                                                 IBRD
.ROADS
Vehicles, equipment & spare parts             0.0      11.7    11.7    11.7    0.0    11.7        100
RAILWAYS                                        .                 9
Parts, equipment, tools, etc.                 0.0       9.8      9.8     9.8    0.0    9.8        100
POWER
Cross Islands In.-rconnection                15.3      29.2    44.5    10.0  34.54   44.5          23
Dubrovnik area distribution                   3.2       6.6      9.8     6.6    3.2'    9.8        67
subtotal                                   18.5       35.8    54.3    16.6   37 7    54.3        31
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE, &
FLOOD CONTROL                                                                                           i
Water supply and sewerage                    16.5      18.2    34.7    18.0   16.7   34.7          2
Flood control                                 4.5       1.0      5.5     2.0    3.5    5.5         36
subtotal                                   21.0       19.2    40.2    20.0   20.2b   40.2        50
COMMUNITY RECONSTRUCTION
Building materials for housing reconstruction,
reconstruction of schools, health facilities,
local infrastructure networks in priority groups   42.3  12.4    54.7    40.2   14.5'   54.7      73
of communities
AGRICULTURE
Livestock subcomponent                        0.5       6.3      6.8     6.8    0.0    6.8        100
Farm machinery                                0.0       9.8      9.8     9.8    0.0    9.8        100
Grain drying                                  0.0       2.6      2.6     2.6    0.0    2.6        100
Consultant services                           0.3       0.2      0.5     0.5    0.0    0.5        100
subtotal                                    0.8       18.9    19.7    19.7    0.0   19.7         100
ADDMONAL AREAS                                 6.4        8.5    14.9    10.0    4.9d   14.9        62
(to be detennined)                                    __.
TOTAL                                         86.8      118.3   205.1   128.0   77.1  205.3         62
* HEP own funds
b HV own funds ($12.0m), and loan from HKBO ($8.2m).
c Labor and equipment costs borne by household beneficiaries
d As in a,b, and c above.



- 11-
SCHEDULE B
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGFNCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJIECI
PROPOSED PROCURENIENT METHODS
$SS millonw-
PRojECT ELEMENTS                                   ICB       LCB   OTIHER    N.A.   NBF   TOTAL
1. WORKS                                           13.0      132       -7 4           -12.9       38.2
.             t~~~~~4. 5)  (6 9)   {?4 78Al,      
2. GOODS
2.1 MNlachinery. equipment. and spare parts     48.9                25.9            21.6       96.7
(42.5:1             (21.0)                    (63.5)
2.2 Livestock                                                        5.7'                       5.7
(5.7)                     (5.7)
2.3 Building Materials                                              29.0-            10.8      40.0
(29.0)                    (29.0)
Sub-total goods                                 48.9                 60.9           32.4      109.8
(42.5)              (55.7)                   (130.6)
3. CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                  2.0                        2.0
.(10)                     (1.0)
4. AIDDITIONAL AREAS (Unallocated)                                              14.9              14.9
I___   I__ _    __ _ _    (10.0)             (10.0)
TOTAL                                              61.9     2132       70.0    14.91  45.3       205.3
(47.0)     (6.9)    (64. I'   (I0.0)   (0.0)    (128.0)
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
NA  = Non-Allocated (Additional areas)
NBF   Non Bank-Financed
"Other' includes:            LIB      - Limited Inte national Bidding:    USS 17.8 m (S14.4 m)
IS      - International Shopping:       US$ 4.2 m (S 3.2 m)
DC      - Direct Contracting:           US$ 9.6 m (S 9.6 m)
LS      - Local Shopping:               US$ 36.4 m ($36.4 m)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank
includes:  DC -- $ 9.6 m (S 9.1 rn); LIE -- $12.1 ($8.7 m); and IS -- $3.1 m ($2.1 m).
h LIB $5.7 m (S 5.7 tn)
LS (households to procure materials from retail suppliers, and small local works contracts)
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
FY 1995         [          FY 1996           |          FY 1997           ITOTALI.
Amount         12.0  10.8  15.4   16.3  17.0   14.1   119     8.9   7.1   6.4    4.2    3.9    128
Cumulative     11.0  22.8  38.2  54.5  71.5   85.6   97.5  106.4  113-5  119.9  124.1  1280    128
9.4  17.8  29.8  42.6  55.9   66.9   76.2   83.1  88.7  93.7   97.0  1000    100



- 12 -
SCHEDULE C
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to prepare:                            18 months2.
(b) Prepared by:                                     EC2.
(c) First and principal mission:                     Oct. 7 - Nov 11, 1992
(d) Updating mission:                                April 11 - 21, 1994
(d) Negotiations:                                    May 9-11, 1994
(e) Planned date of effectiveness:                   September, 1994
(f) List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:                 Not applicable
2 Includes a twelve month interruption in project processing



- 13-
SCHEDULE D
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CROATIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a
- (As of April 30. 1994)
US$ Million
Loan     Fiscal                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year-    Borrower                       Proiect                         Loan    UIisbutsed
Fully disbursed loans benefitting entities located in Croatia b                   356.0
Of Which: SALs. SECALs-and Program Loans                                           -
Loans Under Disbursement:
2338-2   1984      Zajednica Elektr.    Third Power Transmission Projec' c         3.0        0.1
3069-0   1989      Istarski Vod. Buzet  Istria Water Supply Project               28.0        17.6
Total                                      387.0
Of Which: Repaid                       286.0
Total Now Held by the Bank                  101.0
Total Amount Sold                             0.1
Of Which: Repaid                         0.1
Total Undisbursed                                      17.7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1994)
There are no outstanding IFC commitments
May 31, 1994
$ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b Represent's Croatia's portion of loans made to the former Yugoslavia which were not filly repaid as of December
31 1992., including a fully disbursed subloan made to a Croatian entity under the still disbursing Ln. 2790-YU
(Industry Energy Conservation & Substiution Project).
`he loan clsing date fhr this project was December 31. 1993. The loan account was kept open to end-Mach
1994 to complete disbursement for the remaining contract and when completed the remaning undisbursed balance
will be cancelled.



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EM1ERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
May 27, 1994



TECHNICAL ANNEX
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA      -   Agriculture Development Account
AAS      -   Agricultural Advisory Services
ACMU   -   Agriculture Coordinating and Montitoring Unit
AO       -   Agricultural Institute of Osijek-
AR       -   Agency for Reconstruction (staff now incorporated inito HKBO)
CRAB    -   Center for Reproduction and Animal Breeding
CRU      -  Community Reconstruction Unit (within EPRD)
DC       -   Direct Contracting
DATST   -   Department of Agricultural Technology, Storage, and Transport
ERPD    -   Emergency Reconstruction Project Division (in HKBO)
EU       -   European Union
GOC      -   Government of Croatia
HC       -   Hrvatske Ceste (Croatian Roads Department)
HEP      -   Hrvatska Elektroprivreda (Croatian Electricity Company)
HKBO    -   Hrvatska Kreditna Banka Za Obnovu (Croatian Credit Bank for
Reconstruction)
HV       -   Hrvatska Vodoprivreda (Croatian Water Company)
HZ       -   Hrvatske 2eljeznice (Croatian Railways)
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IS       -   International Shopping
LCB      -   Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      -   Limited International Bidding
LS       -   Local Shopping
MAF      -   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Management
MEC      -   Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
MOH      -   Ministry of Health
NBF      -   Non-Bank Financed
UCPTE   -   Western Europe Power System



REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Pane
A.   BACKGROUND  .........................................                                                                           1
The Effects of War  ...................                                                                                    I
Government Reconstruction Program                   .............................                                         2
B.        BANK  RESPONSE  AND  STRATEGY    ............................                                                              3
Roles of Other Financing Institutions   .............................                                                     4
C.        DETAILED  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION                          ...........................                                       4
Roads .                ................................................                                                   4
Railways   .........................................                                                                      5
Power .               ................................................                                                    6
Water Supply, Sewerage, and Flood Control  .........................                                                      8
Community Reconstruction  .....                              ..............................                              12
Agriculture                   .............................................                                              15
Studies and Technical Assistance   ........................ .....                                                        17
Project Costs and Financing Plan  ................................                                                       18
Financial and Economic Justification  ..............................                                                     19
D.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION ....                                                           ......           19
Project Implementation    ......................................                                                         19
Procurement  .............................................                                                              20
Disbursements    ...........................................                                                            23
Status of Project Preparation  ...................................                                                      23
Supervision Plan ..........................................                                                             25
APPENDICES
1.        Cost Estimates    ...........................................                                                           26
2.        Implementation Arrangements: Community Reconstruction Component  ....                                      ....          31
3.        hIplementation Arrangements: Agriculture Component  ..................                                                   39
4.        Project Organization Chart  .... ..........................                                                              46
5.        Financial Flows under the Water Supply, Sewerage and Flood Control Component .                                           47
6.  Summary Table of Procurement Methods .48
7.    List of documents in project file .....................                                                            X    49
8.        Photographs   .............................................                                                              50



TECHNICAL ANNEX
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A. BACKGROUND
The Effects of War
1.    After more than a year of violent conflict, relative peace and normalcy was restored in
Croatia in the spring of 1992. However, parts of the territory (about one-third of the total) remnained
outside the control of the Croatian Government, including the territory currently protected by the
United Nations (U.N.). The conflict was intense and highly destructive. In addition to the loss of
life, and the injuries, there were miles of territory where no building was left standing. Fifty-one
counties (out of a total of 102) were included in the national reconstruction program, of which 13
were not under the control of the Croatian Government, and therefore inaccessible. Fifteen other
counties were partially inaccessible. In all, 590 towns and villages were affected: destruction was
almost total in 35 settlements; 34 others suffered heavy damage. Among the towns in these last two
groups are Vukovar, Gospic, Osijek, Dubrovnik, Slavonski Brod, Zadar, Drnis, Sibenik, Vinkovci,
Karlovac, Otocac, Pakrac, 2upanja, and Lipik.
2.    The damage to infrastructure and buildings was considerable; roads, bridges, railroads,
teleconmmunications, and energy transmission lines were blown up. Virtually every major bridge
along the Sava river was destroyed. Large sections of two major highways were unusable, either
because of damage or because they ran through inaccessible areas. Traffic was re-routed to smaller
roads, which suffered accelerated deterioration because of overuse. The situation was similar in the
railways network. The airports at Dubrovnik and Zadar were heavily damaged. Thousands of
kilometers of electricity transmission and distribution lines, several power plants, and many
transmission towers and other installations were also heavily damaged. Sections of the Adriatic oil
pipeline system were closed. Items such as railway ties, vehicles, and industrial machinery were
stolen - or, if not easily moved, destroyed.
3.    The war affected a wide range of public buildings; cultural and religious suffered particularly
with 245 historical places, 675 individual monuments md 350 churches, chapels and belltowers
damaged. Some 470 educational buildings and 43 health services buildings were damaged, as were
hotels and guest houses along the southern coast. However, housing and agriculture seem to have
suffered the most devastating effects. About 20% of the housing stock within the area affected by
war was damaged or destroyed. In villages, the damage included agricultural buildings and to
agricultural equipment housed within the buildings. A large proportion of the livestock was killed or
stolen; much of the undamaged equipment was also stolen.
4.    The devastation resulted in a mass movement of people. Although many families have now
retumed to their homes, the current total of about 500,000 displaced persons and refugees constitutes
a heavy burden for which the Government of Croatia (GOC) has assumed responsibility for support.
Some 40% of the displaced people and refugees were initially lodged in hotels along the Adriatic
coast; 35% were in private family housing, usually in the larger towns, and 25% were accommnodated



in collective camps. The speed of tourism's recovery depends to a large extent on how quickly
alternative accommodation can be made available, in order to begin rehabilitating the hotels.
5.    Of the nearly two million hectares normally under cultivation in Croatia, more than 25% was
made inaccessible by the war. Many border villages, together with their fields, became the front line
of war, and had to be temporarily evacuated. With the end of hostilities along the front line and the
restoration of many villages to Government control, the farmers began returning to their farms and
restoring agricultural production. However, returning farmers faced partially or totally destroyed
homes and farm buildings, and missing or damaged equipment. In many areas, farmers were initially
unable to cultivate fields because of unexploded mines, althiough a mine-clearing program has now
been carried out.
Government Reconstruction Program
6.    The Government's primary objective is to restore the production levels of the economy;
Within this context, the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure, the return of displaced families to
their homes, and the reconstruction of damaged industrial and agricultural assets are necessary,
although not sufficient, conditions. The repair of main infrastructure lines and local networks is a
high priority. Damaged housing is one of the main constraints to the resumption of tourism.
Although 75 % of the displaced people are now estimated to be accommodated in private homes,
efforts to empty the hotels have not yet been completely successful, and many tourist beds remain
occupied by displaced people and refugees, making it difficult to start the refurbishing of hotels and
re-attract tourists. It is also a constraint to restoring agricultural activity to pre-war levels, since
much of the housing in villages suffered damage along with the damage to agricultural assets. In all
these priority areas -- housing, agriculture, and infrastructure, the responsible Govermnent agencies
have assessed the damage to the extent feasible, and priorities have been identified. In the light of the
current restructuring program, the Government places higher priority on privately-owned rather than
socially-owned enterprises: the reconstruction of damaged industry will be considered in the light of
restructuring and privatization plans.
7.    The responsibility for assessing damage and carrying out the proposed larger infrastructure
reconstruction programs lies with the various government agencies and public enterprises, such as
Croatian Roads (Hrvatske Ceste - HC), Croatian Electric Power Company (Hrvatska Elektropriveda -
HEP), Croatian Railways (Hrvatska 2eljeznice - HZ), and Croatian Water Supply Company
(Hrvatska Vodoprivreda - HV). The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management
(MAF), through its various affiliated agencies and extension service, has collected detailed
information on war-related damage and loss at the individual farm level. Local government offices
collected information on war damage to housing in local communities.
8.    A specialized bank has been created: the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction (Hrvatska
Kreditna Banka Za Obnovu -- HKBO). The HKBO's mandate includes the financing of
reconstruction loans for buildings, farms, enterprises, infrastructure and public facilities, and special
projects, etc., as well as the promotion of privatization and restructuring. It will focus primarily on
financing reconstruction projects during its initial period, and on restructuring and privatization
projects thereafter. Its sources of capital to be used for reconstruction are specified in a June 1992
decree, and include, inter alia, some of the proceeds from privatization and from exploitation of
natural resources and public goods, but HKBO is not yet fully capitalized. HKBO now incorporates
most of the staff of the former Agency for Reconstruction which was founded as an administrative
and professional service of the Government for coordination of reconstruction of the war-damaged



-3 -
areas. HKBO now has the primary advisory role in reconstruction, and is responsible for
coordinating reconstruction activities of the various ministries and agencies in Croatia, and for
financing, on behalf of the Government, local reconstruction projects in various sectors.
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
9.    The Republic of Croatia became a member of the International Monetary Fund as of
December 1992, and of the World Bank as of February 25, 1993. The Government is now seeking
support from the Fund and the Bank in several areas: stabilization, reconstruction, economic
restructuring, and project lending. The Bank's first lending operation is designed to assist the
Government in addressing its immediate reconstruction priorities. The Government's priority
reconstruction programs were discussed with the Bank during a October/November 1992 mission.
Although project preparation was carried out rapidly in keeping with the urgent nature of the
reconstruction activities, processing was delayed by one year due to a worsening of the situation in
the area. An updating mission was carried out in April, 1994. The proposed project provides an
essential input into the Govermnent's program, by assisting in high priority reconstruction activities
necessary to restore the basic conditions for renewed economic growth.
10.   Beyond the initial emergency reconstruction operation, several investment lending operations
are under consideration. Assistance in the infrastructure sector would initially include a proposed
transport loan; and in the agriculture sector, a project to assist private farmers is under preparation.
Other Bank support could be in the areas of social safety nets, energy, and housing. Adjustment
lending would follow an IMF Standby Agreement, and would focus on financial sector reform and
ownership/privatization issues; at the samne time, the Bank would work closely with the IMF on fiscal
reform and stabilization.
11.   The priority reconstruction programs of the various Government agencies were discussed
during the October/Novemnber 1992 mission, in order to ensure that priority tasks are tackled first,
and that expenditures are not inconsistent with the macroeconomic situation and with reforms planned
in the enterprise and other sectors. The proposed operation would support the Government in its
reconstruction program, focussing on the repair or reconstruction of infrastructure, on the repair or
replacement of agricultural -ssets, and on assisting in the reinstatement of displaced families through
the repair of damnaged housing, and minimum levels of social and physical infrastructure. The
identified project components take into account only priorities in areas currently accessible to the
Government of Croatia, although some funds will be set aside under the project to finance similar
reconstruction activities in other parts of the country, if and when these areas become accessible for
project implementation.
12.   No funds from ongoing operations will be reallocated to the reconstruction programn. As of
end-April 1994, one Bank operation in Croatia was still under project implementation -- Ln. 3069-YU
(Istria Water Supply and Sewerage Project) assists water and sewerage organizations in Istria in
eliminating water shortages, increasing their efficiency, and protecting water sources and coastal areas
from pollution. Project implementation is satisfactory and funds are committed.



-4 -
Roles o_f O*er Financin,e -Institutions
13.   Several bilateral and multilateral organizations, including the UNHCR, are providing
assistance for refugees and displaced people through the construction of temporary housing or
reconstruction in a few communities. Croatia is also a member of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD): a country strategy paper was approved by EBRD's Board
in April, 1993. EBRD is preparing operations in civil aviation and power distribution, which are
expected to be approved this calendar year. It is also planning a lending operation in the roads
sector, in cooperation with the Bark. A financial protocol with the European-Union (EUJ) is under
consideration.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ROADS
Ba ak round
14.   Roads. Croatia has three main road transport corridors: (}) the Central Corridor along the
TYH Expressway (E70), still lacking easy access for rehabilitation due to several adjacent areas not
currently under the control of the Govermnent; (ii) the Northertn Corridor along road M-3, mostly
parallel to the Hungarian border and traversing the richest agricultural regions of Croatia, now
accessible up to a few kilometers east of Osijek, and (iii) the Adriatic Corridor, mainly along the E-
65 road, accessible with the exception of a few areas still in dispute. Sections of these corridors
which have suffered the most severe war damage are shown in map IBRD No. 24459R. Priorities for
reconstruction include structures (bridges and flyovers) and short, tout important, road sections
essential to the normal flow of traffic. Large amounts of road maintenance equipment and spare parts
were damaged, destroyed or stolen during the war. The lack of this equipment precludes adequate
maintenance, and is contributing to the significant degradation already taking place. The need for
routine winter maintenance is extremely urgent - without it, important roads would need to be closed
or would face extreme degradation under the tough snow and ice conditions of the continental part of
the country.
15.   Bridges. Bridges were an important target of destruction during the war. About 37 bridges
were damaged or destroyed; another 26 were slightly damaged, and the necessary repairs are being
carried out, or will be carried out in the near future, by HC. Many of these bridges are along the
Sava River, or in other border areas, and cooperation between two states is lequired before repairs
can take place. The Osijek bridge over the Drava River is an exception. The bridge is on the M-17
road, and is important to the rich agricultural areas along and on both sides of the Drava, to the
connection between the two parts of Osijek, and for access to Hungary and central Europe.
16.   Of particular importance is the Maslenica Bridge on the M2 road. This bridge over the
Maslenica Zdrilo channel, with a central span of 155m, is essential to the traffic on the Adriatic
corridor. Its destruction is responsible for costly traffic deviations, installation of special ferries
through Pag island, permanent traffic congestion, and destruction of local roads on Pag through
overuse.



-5 -
17.   Reconstruction plans. The most urgent priorities within the road sector are the replacement of
equipment and spare parts, repair of the Osijek and Maslenica bridges, and the reconstruction of
certain damaged road sections. The Government has defined a three-year (1994-1996) investment
program for the roads sector, which includes replacement of equipment stolen, destroyed or damaged
during the war, and reconstruction of war-damaged bridges and road sections.
The Emergency Reconstruction Project
18.   Reconstruction of damaged road sections and bridges are being considered for inclusion in the
Highway Sector Project, which would finance a three-year 1995-97 time slice of the Government's
road expenditure program. The EBRD has indicated that it wvill also finance a part of this program.
Appraisal of the First Transport Project is cur'-ently planned for Jnme/July, 1994.
19.   The roads component of the proposed emergency reconstruction project includes:-
Egquipment and spare Darts: replacement of 100% of the special equipment and 80% of the
winter service trucks lost due to the war. The component would finance 100% of the costs:
Estimated total cost: US$ 11.7 million equivalent.
Table Al.1 (Appendix 1) provides a summary of costs for the various items of equipment and for the
bridge works.
20.   Implementation. HC, which has ample experience with Bank financed projects, will be
responsible for implementation. The imnplementation period for the component (acquisition and
delivery of equipment) is not expected to exceed two years.
RAILWAYS
Background
21.   Croatia's railway network comprises about 2,440 km. of which about 830 km are electrified.
Croatian Railways (HZ) owns 184 diesel and 109 electric locomotives, 127 diesel shunters, 41 diesel
motor trains, 39 rail buses, about 800 coaches, and about 13,000 freight wagons.
22.   HZ estimates that out of war damage totalling about US$ 161 million, about one-fifth was in
the accessible areas, including about 4 percent of the destroyed infrastructure. Many locomotives,
motor trains, coaches and freight wagons were damaged during attacks on workshops and depots.
Track maintenance equipment was also damaged; and because of the frequency of emergency repairs
- often several times in the same track sections -- the equipment has suffered excessive wear and
tear.
23.   The normal reserves of rails, sleepers, points and spare parts were depleted in repairing
damage to tracks, and to electrification, signal!ing, and telecommunications equipment. The damage
sustained by diesel locomotives, diesel motor trains and rail buses is now impairing railway
operations on the network currently under HZ's control. The closure of the Novska-Nova Gradiska
section of the electrified main trunk line has shifted the still substantial traffic to and from Osijek,
Vinkovci and Slavonski Brod onto the northern non-electrified lines. War damage, together with the



-6 -
lack of foreign currency in the last two to three years, has resulted in a substantial drop in availability
of the diesel-powered rolling stock, which is needed most for current operations. The availability rate
of diesel locomotives is now 69%, compared to 92% in February 1990; diesel motor trains are down
to 80% from 95%, and for rail buses the decrease has been from 96% to 72%.
24.   Financial constraints have delayed regular track overhaul In order to avoid additional delays,
which would be costly in terms of further deterioration of the infrastructure and reduced safety, track
maintenance machines and small tools need to be overhadled, because of the very intensive use they
sustained during emergency repairs.
The Emergency Reconstruction Proiect
25.   The tailways component of the proposed project would finance priority items for the sector
including: spare parts for traction and rolling stock, replacement of the depleted stock of materials for
tracks, electrification, signalling, telecommunications, and replacement of small tools for track
repairs, and spare parts for track maintenance machines:-
US$ million
-      Spare parts for traction and rolling stock         5.1
-      Depleted stock materials (as above)                3.4
-     Small tools for track repairs                       0.3
-      Spare parts for track maintenance machines         1.0
Total                               9.8
The total cost of US$ 9.8 million would be financed by the proposed loan. Cost estimates are shown
in Table A1.2 (Appendix 1).
26.   Implementation. Croatian Railways, which has a well-established relationship with the Bank,
including familiarity with Bank procurement procedures, would be responsible for implementation of
the component.
POWER
Background
27.    In 1990, Croatia had a total installed capacity of 3,638 MW, of which 57% was hydro (11
plants), 33% was thermal (8 plants), and 10% was nuclear. The backbone of Croatia's transmission
and distribntion system is a 400 Kv primary transmission network of 903 kn and 5 substations, with
a total capacity of 3400 MVA, which is interconnected with Serbia, Bosnia and the UCPTE --
Western Europe Power System (Map. IBRD No. 24492). Secondary voltage levels for transmission
are 220 Kv (1,210 kan and 11 substations) and 110 Kv (4,700 km antd 131 substations). Primary
distribution voltages are 35, 20 and 10 Kv (52,380 km and 19,765 substations). Electricity
consumption was 13,100 GWh; 65% of this was generated by Croatia, the balanf e being imported,
mainly from Serbia and Bosnia and Hercegovina.
28.   During the war, thousands of kilometers of transmission and distribution lines were repeatedly
attacked and heavily damaged, hundreds of transmission towers have been uprooted, some sub-



7 -
stations destroyed, and part of the country's main power stations put out of operation. Electricity
constunption fell by about 10% in the second half of 1991 when the major 400 Kv substation
(Ernestinovo) interconneeting Croatia and Serbia was damaged; consumption fell by about another
20% after April 1992 when more damage on the 400 Kv and 220/110 Kv system occurred and supply
from Bosnia was totally cut off. In a January 1993 incident, the Peruca dam suffered severe damage
when five explosive devices were detonated. The damn and power plant, now out of commission,
were key installations for the provision of electricity to the southern coastal region of Croatia. As a
result of damage to both the transmission line and the Peruca damr and hydro power plant, the
population in some parts of the southem coastal area is now without electricity for up to seventeen
hours each day.
29.   War damage to the 400/220 Kv transmission system has effectively created three isolated
systems in Croatia, i.e., Eastern, Western, and Southern. The Western part of the Croatian power
system is still interconnected with UCPTE through Slovenia, and obtains supply from UCPTE in
addition to its own generation. The most severely damaged transmission and distribution facilities are
in the regions where combat was the heaviest; i.e, Dubrovnik, Zadar, Osijek, Nova Gradiska, Sisak,
Gospi6, Sibenik, Vinkovci and Slavonski Brod. As a result, the systems in large areas of the Eastern
and Southern parts of Croatia are only marginally serviceable. These problems are compounded by
aging circuits and overloaded lines in the distribution networks. Consuners suffer frequent and
prolonged supply interruptions due to failures in both the transmission and distribution systems.
30.   Damages to the 400 Kv line from Melina to Konjsko and the 220 Kv lines from Brinje to
Konjsko in the Southern part of the Croatian power system, located in non-accessible areas, have
isolated the Southern part of the system and completely cut off power supply from the Meline
substation (400/220/110 Kv) to Zadar and sibenik. Zadar, a major industrial center with more than
100,000 inhabitants and tibenik, another major city in the coastal area, at present depend mainly on
unreliable local generation, and have had no secure power supply for more than two years.
31.   Reconstruction plans. Total war damage in the power subsector is estimated at about US$320
miillion; about half of this is in the distribution network, another 29 % is in the transmission system,
and the rest is in power plants. HEP, which is responsible for all generation, transmission, and
distribution, tentatively plans to complete the reconstruction of the entire system within three to five
years. The first priority is in restoring the transmission and distribution networks. Repair work is
already being carried out on the medium and low voltage networks in Croatian controlled areas.
These repairs are mainly temporary measures which are unsafe to the system, but can maintain
minimum power supply in the isolated Eastern and Southem areas for the time being. Although
generation would be the next priority, few of the damaged power plants are within accessible areas,
and the smaller ones among these are already being repaired.
The Emergency Reconstruction Project
32.   The objective of the power component is to assist in the reconstruction of the most severely
damaged transmission and distribution facilities, wherever feasible, in order to restore more stable
electricity supply as soon as possible.
33.   The power subsector component comprises:
(i)    Transmission (Cross Islands Interconnection). In order to assure a reliable power
supply to areas of Zadar and tibenik, the component will consist of the construction
of a new transmission interconmection between Krk and Rab islands, Pag island, and



-8 -
the mainland to Zadar and gibenik. The interconnection is part of HEP's
development plan for the islands; in addition to solving the immediate problems of
Zadar and §ibenik, by substituting for poWer supply from the damaged 400/220 Kv
network, it will restore damaged telecommunication links between Tumbri, Melina
and the coastal area (through installation of ground wire with optic fiber). The
transmission line, undlerground and undersea cables from Rab to Pag, and associated
substations are urnder construction, with HEP's own financial arrangements, and are
expected to be completed by end 1994. Bank financing for this component would
cover goods and services for the construction of 1 10/35 KV Pag substation, I 10KV
lines from Zadar to gibenik, and telecommunication links from Tumbri to Melina and
Zadar to gibenik. Estimated total cost: US$ 44.5 million, oc which the Bank would
finance US$ 10 million equivalent.
(ii)    Dubrovnik Area Distribution Networks Reconstruction. The component will cover
the rehabilitation of the distribution network in and around Dubrovnik from the step-
down transformer stations to household connections, and including street lighting
networks. Estimated total cost: US$ 9.8 million, of which the Bank would finance
US$ 6.6 million equivalent.
Details of the works and equipment to be provided are shown in Table A1.3 (Appendix 1). Of the
total cost of the component, US$ 16.6 million would be financed by the proposed loan.
34.   Implementation. HEP, which has implemented several Bank assisted projects, would be
responsible for procurement under the project and the installation of equipment.
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL
Water Supply and Sewerage
35.   Before the war, Croatia's water supply and sewerage service levels were relatively good, with
over 80% of the urban population connected to piped water systems. and 70% connected to a water
bome sewerage system. At the national level, water supply, sewerage and flood control are the
responsibility of Hrvatska Vodoprivreda (HV), which reports to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Water Management (MAF). However, most of the activities in the sector are carried out by
communal works organizations, municipalities, or regional water works. In its role as an
implementor of Ministry policy, HV is responsible for flood control. regional and multipurpose water
management projects, and regulation of domestic and industrial water supply providers and
wastewater dischargers.
36.   War damage to water supply and sewerage systems was w idespread, and caused a gi.at deal
of hardship as households, farms and businesses, and in some cases. whole communities, were
without water supply at various times in the areas where conflict took place. Most of the war damage
to municipal water supply and sewerage systems was sustained by above ground structures, such as
pumping stations, water treatment plants, sewage treatment plants and storage tanks. Elevated water
tanks were particularly inviting targets for artillery attacks during the war. Piping systems, except in
the case of Osijek (see below), suffered little damage because most of the components are buried.
Damage was worse in areas where close combat took place during the war. In these areas.
maintenance equipment, and in some places, pumps and motors, were removed by the occupiers when



-9 -
they left. In a few cases, what could not be taken was destroyed. All water systems have now been
repaired to the point where they are able to meet basic needs, but many are operating at reduced
capacity or without the benefit of adequate standby, or with temporary repairs that need to be made
permanent.
37.   In some instances, damage to systems was not caused by military activity but is directly
related to the war. In Osijek, for example, an already weakened pipeline was further weakened by
pressure surges caused by the system's pumps being stopped by frequent power outages during the
fighting. The pipeline is now beyond econonic repair. On the island of Pag, new supply works are
necessary to meet increased demands- from the influx of refugees. Simntar supply works -for a refugee
camp in Oslijek have been completed.
38.   In the areas around tibenik, Zadar, Sisak, Pakrac-Lipik, and Biograd na Moru-Filip Jakov,
some major sources of water supply are in non-accessible areas and were either destroyed or shut off.
The first priority for the Government has been to restore full water service for these towns by
constructing alternative water sources. New sources have been completed for gibenik and Zadar.
39.   The investmnent cost of works and supply of equipment for complete restoration of water and
sewerage services is estimated as follows:
US$ million
Repair and replacement                                 24.2
Alternative source development                         19.3
New source development for refugees                     3.1
0 & M equipment replacement                             2.0
Total                                           48.6
Flood Control and Drainage.
40.   Much of Croatia is in the flood plains of the Sava, Drava and Danube Rivers. HV has direct
responsibility for the construction, operation and maintenanc.e of flood control works in these basins.
Over the years, elaborate flood protection and drainage systems in these flood plains have been
constructed to prevent flooding and turn swamps into productive agricultural land. The war zone
included 600 km of embanmanents on the Sava River and 20 kn of embanklnents on the Drava and
Danube Rivers. The embankments were damaged by the digging of trenches, the building of
bunkers, the passage of heavy military vehicles during unfavorable weather conditions, and artillery
bombardment. Bombardment also damaged water control structures, pumping stations,
coummunications systems and administration buildings. Large sections of the canal network have been
choked with mud because of the inability to carry out maintenance work, making sections of the
drainage system non-operational. The restoration work, already in progress, is made much slower by
the loss, through destruction and theft, of much of the mobile maintenance equipment.



-10 -
41.   The investment cost of appraised works and replacement of equipment for complete
restoration of flood control and drainage facilities is estimated as follows:
US$ million
Civil Works                                            12.0
Replacement of 0 & M equipment                          8.4
Total                                           2 0.4
Reconstruction Plans
42.   Water Suply and Sewerage. HV has been assigned responsibility for damage assessment and
the establishment of reconstruction priorities in the sector. Repair apd rehabilitation of water supply
and sewerage systems is the responsibility of the municipalities and their commrunal works
organizations, or regional water and sewerage utility organization where they exist. The Government
reconstruction program, through HKBO, includes financial assistance only for the larger
municipalities and regional water companies in the form of loans. The loans, which are approved and
administered by HKBO, cover 70% of the project cost, with the remainder coming as a grant from
HV. Although HKBO has approved a significant number of loans for such projects, relatively few
have been funded. Repairs to rural water works are being carried out directly by HV, either from its
own budget and/or with money lent by the Government under the same terms offered to
municipalities and regional water companies. HV will repay these loans out of its own revenues.
43.   Flood Control and Drainage. HV is responsible for restoring flood control and drainage
works to their prewar condition. Most of the work will be done under contract, although some will
be carried out by HV's maintenance crews. The contract work will be financed with loans under the
same terms aiid conditions as those for municipalities.
The Emergency Reconstruction Project
44.   The proposed component would comprise works and equipment in both the water supply and
sewerage, and the flood control and drainage sectors, as follows:-
(i)    Water supply and sewerage: This component would include up to 20 small projects:
six to repair damage to sewerage systems, and the remaining 14 to repair municipal
and village water works facilities. The projects would vary in size, with the largest
being the replacement rf a damaged water supply transmission main. The cost of this
project is estimated at $4.5 million equivalent. The smallest project would be for the
replacement of a maintenance vehicle. All these projects appraised by the Bank were
approved by HV, but with unfunded loans. Total estimated cost: US$ 34.7 million
equivalent, including engineering and HV supervision.
(ii)   Flood control and drainage: The component would include the repair of damlaged
flood control embankments and water control structures in the Sava River basin,
repair of HV's monitoring and communications system, and the replacement of
damaged construction and maintenance equipment. All repair work would be carried
out by contractors under HV supervision. Total estimated cost: US$ 5.5 million,
including engineering and HV supervision.



A brief description and the estimated cost of each project is given in Table AA.4 (Appendix 1).
45.   Financing. The Bank's funding would cover about 50% of the cost of the component; a loan
from HKBO would cover about 20%, and the remaining 30% would come from HV's water
management funds, as a grant. The proceeds of the Bank loan and HKBO's loan would be lent to the
local communities on HKBO's terms.t The component would be financed as follows:-
By HKBO:
WB loan:             50% of estimated project cost     $ 20.0 million
-HKBO sources:      20%W, of project cost, plus 70%
of any cost overruns              $ 8.2 million
By HV:                     30% of project cost, plus 30%
of any cost overruns.             $ 12.0 million
Total:                                                       $ 40.2 million
The Bank loan funds would be used to finance 100% of foreign manufactured goods, 100% of the
foreign cost of works, consultants' services, 35% of goods procured locally, and 35% of the local
cost of works. Bank funds would not be disbursed for HV's design and supervision costs. The
financial flows under the component are shown in Appendix 5.
46.   Implementation. HV would be responsible for: (a) supervision of the municipalities'
implementation of the small water and sewerage projects; (b) direct implementation of the flood
control and drainage projects; (c) ensuring all Bank requirements are met, including preparing
withdrawal applications for submission (through HKBO) to the Bank and keeping all accounts, and
carrying out major procurement, as well as procurement of goods destined for more than one of the
small projects (e.g., pipe for several municipalities would be bid and purchased under one contract);
and submitting periodic progress reports to HKBO.
47.   The feasibility study for the replacement of the Osijek water supply transmission main, one of
the 20 subprojects, would be the standard to follow for all component sub-projects. The feasibility
studies, construction drawings, and all other subproject documentation would be kept on file for Bank
review during project implementation. All documentation would be in Croatian (with summaries in
English), except (i) documentation foi procurement following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, (ii) bid evaluation reports sent to the Bank for review and commnent, (iii) the first two
bidding documents following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, and (iv) any other
specific documents which the Bank may request from time to time.
I/ HKBO's terms are for a period of up to 15 years, including 2 years grace, at a maximum interest rate of
8%, actual terms to be decided on a case-by-case basis by the HKBO's Board of Directrs. The maximum loan
amount is 70% of project cost. GOC currently plans to allow the repayments from local communities to remain
as part of HKBO's capital for fiancing further reconstruction or development.



- 12 -
COMMUNITY RECONSTRUCTION
Background
48.   The importance of creating conditions for returning displaced people to their homes has
placed a high priority on the repair of damaged housing, infrastructure, and the resumption of
agricultural activities. In the many villages and small towns affected by the war, the problem is
linked to agriculture. Large areas of land are Iying fallow. However, damage sustained by many
communities is such that reconstruction efforts on several fronts -- housing, local infrastructure, social
facilities, agricultural equipment, etc. -- are needed simultaneously. The speed of recovery in the
tourism sector depends to a large extent on how quicklb alternative accommodation for refugees and
displaced people can be made- available, in order to begin rehabilitating the hotels.
49.   Housine.? The housing stock is generally built to relatively high standards in stone, brick or
concrete, with tile roofs. Of the 1.78 million units existing before the war, about 74 per cent is
privately owned; only 16 per cent of residential buildings are over two stories high. Of the 51
counties included in the Goverunent's reconstruction program, 42 submitted damage assessment
covering their accessible areas (Table A2. 1, Appendix 2). In the territory that is accessible to the
Croatian Govertnment, over 113,000 housing units were affected by the war (16% of the total stock).
In the territory not currently accessible, over 58,000 units are reported damaged. Units with reported
damage have been categorized by assessment teams, whose preliminary estimates indicated total
restoration costs of about USS 4.4 billion equivalent.
50.   The Government has designated six categories of housing damage: Categories I - III signify
various degrees of non-structural damage; category IV includes structural damage considered to be
relatively easily repairable, category V is for damage that would involve more extensive rebuilding of
the house, and category VI signifies virtually total destruction requiring complete reconstruction. For
many of the houses in categories I - III, the initial damage, and subsequent neglect during the period
where families were unable to return to their homes, has led to further deterioration of interior walls,
floors, equipment, and furniture because of harsh weather conditions. The initial housing damage
assessment yielded the following estimates:-
No. of units        Ave. cost of         Total cost
affected (000)       repair (US$)        (US$ million)
Categories I-II            122.3            9,100               1,113
Categories IV-VI            122.7           26.600               3,268
Total                       246.0           17,350               4,381
51.   Social infrastructure: In addition to housing, a total of 469 educational buildings were
damaged, including 98 kindergartens, 291 primary schools, 63 secondary schools, 14 higher
education colleges, and 3 student hostels. Damaged buildings in the health sector included 17
hospitals, 2 sanitariums and 24 primary health care buildings.
2/ Additional background information is given in Appendix 2.



- 13 -
Reconstruction plans
52.    Although families have begun returning to their homes in many of the war damaged areas,
and substantial numbers of refugees have been re-housed from the coastal hotels where they were
initially accommodated. much more remains to be done, and the repair of damaged housing is a high
reconstruction priority for GOC and local government officials. As soon after the war as it was
feasible, the former Agency for Reconstruction assembled the reports of local damage assessmenlt
teams, and, in cooperation with local governments, HKBO and local banks, defined much of -the
necessary administrative framework for assisting in housing reconstruction. The first phase of
reconstruction is to repair houses withi the least amount of damage, since more housing units can be
made habitable at lower cost. An early programn of soft loans for housing-repair was essentially a
materials only program, covering about 40 percent of the assessed cost of the damage. Homeowners
with houses in categories 1, I, and Hll only were considered eligible, in order to make as many units
habitable as possible, at lower cost. Private homeowners were eligible for loans for materials up to
about US$ 4,000. Resources for the program were limited, and were exhausted fairly rapidly. Some
elements of the program -- the procedures for damage assessment, presentation of house titles, and
procurement of materials through a voucher scheme were retained as an integral part of the scheme
which is currently in operation. In support of the current scheme, a November, 1993 law on
financing the reconstruction of damaged housing and other buildings provides for the on-lending of
HKBO funds through commercial banks to affected householders. The main features of HKBO's
scheme is described in Appendix 2.
53.    The Government is planning an overall evaluation of the health service, and may consider a
restructuring of the sector; and the reconstruction program for hospitals will take the restructuring
into account. Since the reconstruction needs are large relative to the funding available under the
project, the project will focus on schools and health facilities in a limited number of communities.
The Emeraency Reconstruction Proiect
54.    Gevermment officials have worked with the Bank on preparing a component to address the
widespread need to accelerate the re-establishment of households and economic activity within their
communities. A main objective is to provide as much relief as possible by rapidly increasing the
stock of serviceable housing, thereby liberating, some of the public shelter and other resources being
tied up in urban or tourism areas. Because of the extent of the devastation in some communities,
particularly the rural areas, housing repair alone will not be sufficient to achieve these goals. Access
to a minimum complement of infrastructure, social services (especially schools and health facilities),
as well as assistance in replacing the lost capital stock of the small farmers, are also vital to the
rehabilitation of villages and small towns. At the same time, the needs are larger than can be
addressed by the proposed loan amount. Assistance to scattered households throughout the areas
damaged by war would spread the reconstruction effort very thin, perhaps too thin to allow a
resumption of normal community life, and would therefore risk not achieving the objective of
returning substantial numbers of displaced families to their homes. The component has therefore been
designed to address reconstruction needs in high priority groups of comnmurnities only.
55.    The project preparation team in the former Agency for Reconstruction (AR), and later in
HKBO, identified communities within GOC's priority counties, within which the Bank would
contribute to the reconstruction of housing, primary schools, primary health centers, and
repair/reconstruction of the local power, and water and sewer, networks. These communities would
also be the priority for assistance under the agriculture component (para. 65). Priority was based on
several criteria, including (i) the extent of damage in the area, (ii) efficiency - i.e. in heavily



-14 -
damaged areas, villages with a high proportion of units with damage in categories I-III were
identified, allowing more units to be repaired at a lower total cost; and (iii) economic benefits -- i.e.,
higher priority was given to areas where the potential for resuming productive activities is greater.
Communities were grouped into clusters on the basis of their "catchment populations" for schools and
health services, resulting in sixteen groups of priority comnmunities, in five regions of the country
(Table A2.2 and map IBRD 24458R). More detail on the selection criteria are given in Appendix 2.
Calculations were based on private housing only; flats in multi-household buildings were not
considered. Based on current estimates, the proposed loan amount for the community reconstruction
component would address the remaining damaged housing in categories 1-111 in these groups of
communities, and in certain situations, some of the damage in category IV
56.   Equity considerations arise in that those with larger amounts of damage (i,e.. in categories V
and VI, requiring rebuilding rather than repair) at present are ntot eligible to receive the same kind of
assistance. However, at this time, the priority is to return people to their homes as efficiently as
possible. GOC has initiated a pilot project in the Dubrovnik area for addressing damage to housing
in categories V and VI. The pilot project, at Government expense and with self-help from the
affected households, would repair the severely-damaged housing, to a level where only category IV
danage remains; the householder would then be eligible for a housing loan under the HKBO scheme
to complete the repairs. The potential of extending the scheme outlined above for damage in
categories I-IV (priority groups of comrnunities, selected on transparent and objective criteria) to a
larger number of communities, and to other categories of damage, is good; and GOC has indicated an
interest in pursuing this potential when additional resources become available.
57.   Assistance to the selected high priority groups of communities under the Project would consist
of funds for housing repair in the form of vouchers for building materials (as well as some funding
for specialized services, such as in-house wiring and plumbing), along the lines of the Government's
housing repair loans scheme as currently administered by HKBO; as well as assistance for repair or
reconstruction of damaged schools and health facilities in the priority groups of communities, based
on the schools' and health facilities' catchment areas; and assistance for repair/reconstruction of
community water supply and sewerage networks and low voltage power networks in these
communities.
58.   The Community Reconstruction Component of the proposed emergency reconstruction project
would include:
(i)    Assistance for Housina Repair: Loans for housing repair would be provided to
households in the priority groups of conununities, using procedures set up under the
Government's loan scheme. It is estimated that the component would provide
assistance to up to 8,000 households. Estimated allocation: US$ 29 million
equivalent.
(ii)    Repair/Reconstruction of Social Infrastructure. The most urgent repair works for
primary schools and health centers in the priority groups of communities would be
carried out under the component. Estimated allocation: US$ 5 million equivalent.
(iii)   Re air/Reconstruction of Community Networks. The most urgent works for water
and sanitation facilities and low voltage power networks in the priority groups of
communities would be included. Estimated allocation: US$ 6 million equivalent.
The Bank funds would finance 100% of the value of the housing repair loans, wvhich would have a
maximun value per household of DM 6,000 (about US$ 3,500) for damage in Category III, and, in



-15 -
certain circumstances DM12,000 (about US$ 7,000) for Category IV damage.3 The housing repair
loans are estimated to cover, on the average, the cost of building materials (at least 70% of the loan
value), and the cost of specialized services (such as plumbing and wiring). The costs of equipment
and other labor are borne by the householder. Bank funds would also finance 100% of the cost of
the contracts for schools, health centers and water and sanitation facilities and low voltage power
networks.
59.   Imnlementation: HKBO would have overall responsibility for the component; a Community
Reconstruction Unit (CRU) within HKBO's Emergency Reconstruction Project Division (ERPD)
would be established for this purpose. The CRU would be responsible for the administration of the
housing repairs loan scheme. Under this scheme, housing damage assessment would continue to be
made by local technical committees, and the loans would be administered by local commercial banks.
Assistance to households would primarily be in the form of materials vouchers redeemable through
suppliers of building materials throughout Croatia. These suppliers would suibsequently be
reimbursed from the funds in the special account to be administered by HKBO. The reconstruction of
schools and health facilities would be implemented by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC),
and the Ministry of Health (MOH), respectively. Repair/reconstruction of low voltage power and
water and sanitation networks would be carried out by HEP and the local water utility companies,
respectively. All reconstruction work on social facilities and local water and power infrastructure
would be coordinated by CRU, which would also carry out liaison activities with MAF to ensure that
these communities are given priority for livestock and mechanization assistance within the agriculture
component.
AGRICULTURE
Background
60.   The continental part of Croatia covers some 5.6 million heetares (ha), of which close to 57%
(3.2 million ha) is agricultural land. Before the war, 78% of the arable land was cultivated by family
farms, with an average farm size of 2.9 ha. The remainder of the arable land was the responsibility
of large socially owned farms.
61.   Much of the recent war was fought in the agricultural areas of Croatia. During the war, the
villages and surrounding fields along the border were evacuated; the towns and villages suffered the
destruction associated with the movement of the front line, long-range artillety bombardment, aerial
bombings, as well as theft and vandalism (Appendix 6: photographs). As well as devastation to farms
and farm buildings and loss of livestock and equipment, orchards were burned and fields mined.
Scientific and educational institutions suffered damage to their facilities. In Osijek, for example, the
Institute for Agriculture, the Agricultural College of the University, the Agricultural High School,
and the Agricultur.l Scientific Center (IPK) had their facilities destroyed, their fields mined, and have
suffered damage to their machinery and equipment.
62.   The livestock subsector, which accounted for nearly half of agriculture's contribution to GDP
in 1991, appears to have suffered the greatest war losses within the agriculture sector. Conservative
estimates place losses in cattle at 25% of the national herd; for horses, the losses are at 40%, and for
3/ Under the Project, remaining funds can be used for undenaking repairs of housing damage in higher
categories when damage in Categories 1-111 is substantially completed in the priority groupings of communities.



- 16 -
sheep and pigs -- 46% and 28%, respectively. The demand for replacement cattle is very high from
farmers returning 'to their villages (initial applications ran into several thousands).
63.    Losses of farm machinery were also large. Although pre-war estimates indicate that
agriculture was over-mechanized, particularly in the social sector, the tractor fleet was aging and in
need of spare parts and modernization. The estimated losses due to the war were about 20,000
tractors and auxiliary equipment, and demand for farm machinery is high.
64.   Grain drying facilities are of particular importance for the production and storage of grain and
animal feed. Before the war, Croatia had 84 grain storage silos, equipped with grain drying facilities.
Ten of the silos and dryers are now in non-accessible areas, and at least 14 of those in accessible
areas sustained a great deal of damage. While the damage to the silos is being repaired using local
resources, some of the dryers need total replacement.
The Emerg,ency Reconstruction Project
65.   The main objective of the agricultural component is to provide an incentive to private farmers
to return to their farms, resume agricultural production, and provide employment in the rural areas
devastated by the war. Although the needs in the sector are enormous, those in the area of livestock,
agricultural machinery and grain drying have been determined to be the priorities for fulfilling this
objective. To this end, the project would have three sub-components:-
(i)    livestock sub-component: assistance in rebuilding the national herds for milk and meat
production, through (a) the provision of pregnant cows, goats, and mares to private farmers;
(b) the strengthening of artificial insemination and veterinary services by providing the Center
for Reproduction and Animal Breeding (CRAB) with boars for breeding purposes, special
vehicles and equipment for transporting frozen semen, and vehicles for veterinarians to
privatized veterinary stations. Priority in the allocation of breeding stock would be given to
private farmers in the priority groups of communities. Estimated cost: US$ 6.8 million
(ii)   farm machinery: this sub-component would provide about 250 tractors of small and medium
size (40-65 hp), including essential attachments and spare parts and 100 motor cultivators to
private farmers. Estimated cost: US$ 9.8 million.
(iii)   grain drying: four new grain dryers would be provided to enterprises. Estimated cost: US$
2.6 million.
In addition, services would be required for some aspects of project implementation, particularly for
mnanaging procurement: the estimated cost of these services is US$ 0.5 million.
66.   Details of the livestock and equipment to be provided under the agricultural component are
given in Table Al.6 in Appendix 1. The World Bank loan would finance 100% of the above costs,
with a total for the component of US$ 19.7 million. Livestock and farm machinery assistance would
be targeted to private farmers, and would be linked to areas identified uider the community
reconstruction component above.
67.   Implementation. MAF will have overall responsibility for implementing the agriculture
component, and will establish a small Agriculture Coordinating and Monitoring Unit (ACMU) to
which it will delegate the responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the component's



- 17 -
implementation. Also, MAF has appointed three implementing agencies which would be responsible
for the actuai implementation of the three suba-components on behalf of MAF: CRAB to implement
the livestock sub-component, the Agricultural Institute in Osijek (AIO) to implement the farm
machinery sub-component; and the Faculty of Agronomy's Department for Agricultural Technology,
Storage and Transport (DATST) to implement the grain drying sub-component. MAF will open an
Agricultural Development Account (ADA) in a designated bank, into which all proceeds from
repayments will be deposited (Appendix 3).
68.   All goods and equipment would be procured by MAF through the three implementing
agencies and distributed to eligible farmers or, in the case of grain dryers, enteiprises. Farmers'
eligibility for livestock or machinery wrould be determined on the basis of the selection criteria spelled
out in Annexes B and C to Appendix 3. For livestock, these would include, inter alia, possession of
sufficient land, cattle feed, sheds, and veterinarian services to sustain the livestock to be procured.
Fanners receiving breeding stock would repay in kind to CRAB or by cash deposits into ADA.
Farmers receiving farm machinery would make equal semi-annual installment payments to repay the
full cost in real terms over a ten year period. Neither the farmers receiving the breeding stock nor
those receiving the farm machinery would pay interest; however a 3% interest rate will be charged to
enterprises receiving new dryers. Priority for livestock and tractor equipment would be given to the
groups of conununities identified under the Community Reconstruction Component. The
implementation of the three sub-components is designed to be flexible, with the possibility of re-
allocating funds between the sub-components, depending on implementation experience. Further
detail on the implementation arrangements of the agricultural component is given in Appendix 3.
STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
69.   Staff of the various ministries and sectoral agencies are carrying out the planning necessary
for the various project components. These staff are, for the most part, highly competent in most
aspects of project implementation. In MAF, MEC, and MOH, and to some extent, HV, however,
staff are inexperienced in Bank procedures. Also, because of the multisectoral nature of the project
and the degree of coordination required, some training in project management and related subjects is
indicated. Training needs were discussed and agreed during negotiations, and funds have been made
available for training, as well as technical assistance in project implementation, particularly the use of
experienced trade companies as procurement agents for the agriculture component. A procurement
seminar and workshop for staff in ministries and sectoral agencies who will be involved in
procurement and disbursement under the project was held in Croatia in March 1993. Another
seminar will be held in August/September 1994. Institutional arrangements for project
implementation were agreed at negotiations and are described in the next section.



- 18 
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
70.    The costs of the proposed components, and the amounts to be financed bv the Bank. are
summarized in Table 1; details are given in Tables Al. Ito Al.6 in Appendix 1.
Table 1: Project Costs and Financing Plan
COST                       FINANCING
COMPONENT                      Local   Foreign    Total  IBRD   Odier   Total        %
IBRD
ROADS
Vehicles, equipment & spare parts             0 0      11.7    11.7    11.7    0.0    11.7        100
RAILWAYS
Parts, equipment, tools, etc.                 0.0       9.8      9.8     9.8    0.0    9.8        100
POWER
Cross Islands Interconnection                15.3      29.2    44.5    10.0   34.5'   44.5         23
Dubrovnik area distribution                   3.2       6.6      9.8     6.6    3.2'    9.8        67
subtotal                                    18.5      35.8    54.3    16.6   37.7   54.3          31
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE, &
FLOOD CONTROL
Water supply and sewerage                    16.5       18.2    34.7    18.0   16.7   34.7         52
Flood control                                 4.5        1.0     5.5     2.0    3.5    5.5         36
subtotal                                   21.0       19.2    40.2    20.0   20.2'   40.2         50
COMMUNiTY RECONSTRUCTION
Building materials for housing reconstruction,
reconstruction of schools, health facilities, local
infrastructure networks in priority groups of  42.3     12.4    54.7    40.2   14.5'   54.7         73
communities
AGRICULTURE
Livestock subcomponent                        0.5       6.3      6.8     6.8    0.0    6.8        100
Farm machinery                                0.0       9.8      9.8     9.8    0.0    9.8        100
Grain drying                                  0.0       2.6      2.6     2.6    0.0    2.6        100
Consultant services                           0.3       0.2      0.5     0.5    0.0    0.5        100
subtotal                                    0.8       18.9    19.7    19.7    0.0   19.7         100
ADDITIONAL AREAS
(to be determined)                             6.4        8.5    14.9    10.0    4.9d   14.9        62
TOTAL                                         89.0      116.3   205.3   128.0   77.3  205.3          62
'HEP own funds
bHV own funds ($12.0m), and loan from HKBO ($8.2m).
c Labor and equipment costs borne by household beneficiaries
dAs in a,b, and c above.



19 _
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
71.   The components have been selected on the basis of their capacity to restore conditions for
econotmic growth. They are necessary, but not sufficient conditions, for this growth to take place.
This consideration, together with the nature of the assistance. which ranges from basic trunk
infrastructure to the re-establishment of minimum living conditions in a limited number of villages
aind small towns, make it difficult to quantify project benefits. The benefits will, however, be very
real, and the economic returns will be high.
D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Implementation.
72.   The Govermment's sector agencies and ministries would be responsible for implementation,
under the overall coordination of the Emergency Reconstruction Project Division (ERP) in HKBO.
Specifically, the roads, railways, and power components would be imnplemented by Hrvatske Ceste
(HC), Hrvatske Zeljeznice (HZ), and Hrvatska Elektroprivreda (HEP), respectively. Hrvatska
Vodoprivreda (HV) would implement the flood control and drainage subcomponents, and supervise
the implementation of water and sewerage subcomponents to be carried out by local utility companies.
These four agencies are experienced in the Bank's procurement procedures. In particular, these
sector agencies will be responsible for: (i) procurement, which will be carried out in accordance with
the World Bank's guidelines; (ii) preparing applications, including the required supporting
documentation, to withdraw funds from the loan account; and (iii) providing quarterly reports on
project implementation to HKBO (para. 75).
73.   H4KBO would have responsibility for implementing the comnunity reconstruction component,
through its CRU, together with local commercial banks - including the selection of beneficiaries for
assistance in housing repair, the administration of the voucher system, and repayments from
households. Damage assessment would be carried out by local committees at District level. The
reconstruction of schools and health facilities would be implemented by MEC and MOH, respectively.
Within the priority groups of communities, repair/reconstruction of low voltage power and water and
sanitation networks would be carried out by HEP and local water utility companies, respectively.
74.   For the agriculture component, MAF, through its ACMU, will have overall responsibility,
but will appoint implementing agencies for each sub-component -- CRAB, AIO, and DATST for the
livestock, agricultural mechanization, and grain drying components, respectively. The implementation
arrangements are summarized in Table 2 below, and a project organization diagram is given in
Appendix 4.
75.   Coordinating role of HKBO. HKBO, through its ERP division, will be responsible for
overall project coordination, including maintaining the overall loan account (on behalf of the Ministry
of Finance - MOF), maintaining the Special Account, and reporting. In order to assist HKBO in its
coordinating role, all implementing agencies will promptly send copies of final bidding documents and
fimial contracts to HKBO. They will also send quarterly reports on progress in the implementation of
their project components to the ERP division in HKBO. HKBO will add its own report on
implementation progress for the Community Reconstruction Component, as well as a brief summary
on overal project implementation, and submit the resulting report to the World Bank every quarter.



- 20 -
76.   It is anticipated that the components will vary greatl) with regard to ease of implementation,
which will be affected both by the level of administration involved (central, local, or individual
households and farmers), and by the level of experience of the implementing agency. For example,
the roads, railways, and power components, involving equipment purelhases- and works on major trunk
infrastructure, would be implemented by experienced central agencies and are expected to be
relatively straightforward. Small works in water and sewerage involve local administrations; and at
the other extreme, the housing and agriculture components not only involv. individual households and
farmers, but would also be supervised by agencies which are relatri ely inexperienced withl Bank
procedures. Project design therefore incorporates tlexibility, both within these particular components,
and between components, in order to make use of experience gained during implemenration. The
overall coordination role of HKBO, whose staff are well qualified and comnpetent, will be important in
ensuring smooth project execution.
77. -  Implementation of the water supply, agriculture, and community reconstruction components
would be on the basis of regional implementation programs. to be approved by the Bank. The
regions are identified in Tables A 1.4 and A2.2. $10 million of Bank financing has been set aside
under the project to finance reconstruction activities in parts of Croatia that may become accessible
fot project implementation during the life of the project. These funds would be used for activities
similar to those in any of the project's components at the initiative of GOC, with Bank approval. In
order to utilize these funds, the Government would need to assess the suitability of the proposed
activities for inclusion under the project. The Bank would need to agree with the Government on its
assessment, particularly regarding sustainability of such activities. If it becomes clear that it will not
be possible to use these funds in these specific areas during the life of the project, they may be
reallocated for use in other areas. A mid-term review would be carried out about eighteen months
after project effectiveness. At this time, the Government would jointly review progress in project
implementation, and agree on any changes necessary in the planned allocation between sectors or
regions.
Procurement
78.   The agencies responsible for the implementation of the roads, railways, power, and water
supply, sewerage, and flood control components are experienced in procurement of goods, works, and
services, and in particular, in competitive bidding, because of their previous experience with Bank
projects in the former Yugoslavia. GOC has adopted the legislation in effect in former Yugoslavia;
but procedures are continually being revised to reflect a more competitive environment. The mission
found the local competitive bidding used by the technical agencies (roads, railways, power, and water
supply) to be satisfactory. They are also familiar with the Bank's disbursement procedures, the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Works and
Goods.
79.   In the case of the agriculture component, however, MAF has overall responsibility, and is
relatively inexperienced in procurement. It has been agreed that MAF would use the services of the
several experienced trade companies in Croatia, acceptable to the Bank, some of wnich are specialized
in agriculture products and equipment, etc. A project unit has been established in MAF, in order to
coordinate and monitor the implementation activities of CRAB, DATST, and AIO.
80.   Procurement of all goods, works, and services would be in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines: the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Goods, and for Work}s will be
used for all ICB/LCB procurement. Advanced procurement for some items would be allowed,



- 21 -
consistent with retroactive financing in the amount of up to US$ 25 million equivalent, for
expenditures incurred after Junc 1, 1993.
Table 2: Project Implementation Summary
PROJECT COMPONENT           J IMPLEMENTING                IMPLEIMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
AGENSCY
Roads                            HC                    Direct implementation by HIIC
Railways                         HIZ                   Direct implementation by HZ
Power                            HEP                   Direct implementation by HEP
Water supply, sewerage, and      HV                    Direct implementation by HV for flood control wore.s
flood control
Local water utility  Implementation of water and
companies              sewerage projects, supervised by HV
Community Reconstruction
Housing repairs               Local government,     Beneficiary selection and follow-up, and voucher
HKBO, and              reimbursement
commercial banks
Repair/Reconstruction of      MEC, MOH              Implementation of reconstruction/repair works
schools and health facilities
Repair/Reconstruction of local   HEP, local water   Implementation, and in some cases, supervision of local
water and sewerage facilities  utility companies     companies
and low voltage power
networks
Agriculture                      MAF                   Responsibility, through ACMU, for overall component
DATST                Implementation of grain drying subcomponent
CRAB                 Inplementation of livestock subcomponent
AIO                  Implementation of farm machinery subcomponent
designated           Repayments from beneficiaries through local banks and
commercial bank      post offices, to an agricultural development fumd.
OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION    HKBO                         Overall project monitoring and reporting, and
responsibility for managing the Loan Account.
81.    In determining the methods of procurement, the type and characteristics of the items to be
procured, as weU as the need to disburse quickly because of the emergency nature of the project, have
been taken into account. Under the project, the proposed methods of procurement would include
international Competitive Bidding (ICB), Limited International Bidding (LIB), International Shopping
(IS), Direct Contracting (DC), Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) and Local Shopping (LS). A
description of the proposed procurement methods is given in Table 3.



- 12-
82;    For the items to be procured under ICB, LIB. and LCB procedures, the Bank would review the
invitations to bid and bidding documents for the first goods and the first works contracts. as well as all
contracts over US$ I million, under each component. and the evaluation reports for all contracts. All DC
contracts would be subject to prior review bv the Bantk. Eror IS contracts,. the Bank would carry out an
ex-post review.
83.     Local shopping procedures would be used: (if bv MEC, MOIH, HV and HEP for small works
contracts (up to US$ 100,000). for reconstruction work on schools. health facilities, and small
community-level water and sanitation facilities and low v oltage power networks, for which price
quotations would be obtained from at least three suppliers; and (ii) by households, for procuring building
materials from local suppliers at competitive prices.
Table 3: Description of Procurement Methods
TYPE OF PROCUREMENT                                          DESCRIPTION
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)  A separate procurement notice for each component having ICB would
be published. Bidding documents would be sent to suppliers who
respond to the notices.
Limited International Bidding (LIB)      Items to be procured are: (i) very specialized and there are relatively
few qualified and experienced suppliers; or (ii) those that fit into or
match the existing equipment.
International Shopping (IS)              For standard items of small value. The price of single contracts to be
awarded through IS would not be greater than US$300,000. Price
quotations would be obtained from at least three suppliers in at least two
eligible countries.
Directing Contracting (DC)               For proprietary spare parts and replacement equipment.
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)          (i)    items not financed by the Bank. or
(ii)    works (under US$ I million) for which foreign suppliers or
contractors are not expected to be interested in bidding.
Local Shopping (LS)                      For small works contracts (up to US$ 100,000). for reconstruction work
on schools, health facilities, and small community-level water networks,
for which price quotations would be obtained from at least three
suppliers; and
Customary Practice of the Recipients      By households, for procuring building materials from local suppliers at
competitiv.: prices.
Consultants services                     For (i) procurement services, and (ii) some design of local
reconstruction works. Procurement would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.



- 23 -
84.   Consultants' services for: (i) assistance in implementation. particularly the services of
procurement agents for the agriculture component, and procurement consultants to assist both MAF
and ERPD in HKBO; and (ii) design of local schools. health centers, and infrastructure networks,
would be procured according to the Bank's Guidelines. The size of the individual contracts would be
small -- under US$ 100,000. In cases where selection of local consultants would be on a sole source
basis, justification would be on the basis of the companies being experienced in the services to be
provided. having undertaken simnilar assigrnents for, and having established a good working
relationship with, the implementinig agency or Ministry. Evidence of this justification would be
submitted to the Bank.
85.   The proposed procrement methods are summarized in Table 4, and a summary list of the
goods and services to be procured under the project, their costs, and the corresponding methods of
procurment is given in Appendix 6.
Disbursements
86.   The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 5. Disbursements are expected to
be completed within a period of three years from the date of effectiveness.
87.    To facilitate the implementation of the project, a special account would be established in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocat on would
be US$ 12 million equivalent, representing about four months (average) of the Bank's shai , of
estimated expenditures. The special account would be replenished on a monthly basis or v henever
one-third of the amount of the initial deposit has been withdrawn, whichever occurs first, ipon
presentation of withdrawal applications supported by such documentation as the Bank may require.
Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts for goods and works whose value is
less than $250,000 and for services contracts of value less than $50,000, which will be made on the
basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) for which the supporting documentation would be kept by
HKBO and made available for review by Bank supervision missions and the auditors. HKBO would
be responsible for the administration of all disbursements, including the special account.
Status of Project Preparation
88.   A procurement workshop held in Croatia in February 1993 was well attended. All the
implementation agencies for the project participated in the workshop, and have started preparatory
work on procurement documents for ICB, LIB, IS, and LCB. For the roads and railways
components, the Bidding Documents have been finalized. For the community reconstruction
component, the identification of the priority groups of conununities has been completed, together with
preliminary cost estimates for the reconstruction or repair of schools, health centers, power networks
and water and sewerage facilities within these communities. Eligibility criteria for assistance to
households are established, as are the documentation requirements for the reimbursements to building
materials suppliers. Procurement of civil works, through local shopping, for reconstruction of
schools and health facilities in priority groups of conmnunities is already under way. For the
agriculture component, draft contract documents to be signed by beneficiary farmers have been
reviewed by the Bank, and beneficiaries for the farming equipment have been selected.



24 -
Table 4: Proposed Procurement Methods
(tUS$ miltilion)
PROJECT ELEMENTS                              {ICB          LCB   OTIIFR    N.A.   NBF OTAL
1. WVORKS                                          133        3 13.2                   12.9      38.2
t       .       . .                    t~~~~~~~~4.51  i6h ¾}t'4                     (18.8)
2. GOODS
2.1 Machinery, equipment, and spare parts       48.9                25 9            21.6      96.7
(42.5)             (21.0)                     (63.5)
2-2 Livestock                                                        5.7^                      5.7
(5.7)                     (5.7)
2.3 Building Materials                                              29.0            10.8      40.0
(29.0)                    (29.0)
Sub-total goods                                 48.9                60.9            32.4      109.8
(42.5)              (55.7)                   (130.6)
3. CONSULTAN'T SERVICES                                                 2.0                       2.0
(1.0)                     (1.0)
4. ADDITIONAL AREAS (Unallocated)                                               14.9             14.9
_         I           (10.0)            (10.0)
TOTAL                                         I    61.9 |         13.2  70.0 |114.9 | 45.3      205.3
(47.0)     (6.9)    (64.1)  (10.0) j (0.0)   (128.0)
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
LCB   Local Competitive Bidding
NA  = Non-Allocated (Additional areas)
NBF   Non Bank-Financed
"Other" includes:       LI       - Limited International Bidding:   US$ 17.8 m ($14.4 m)
IS      - International Shopping:       US$ 4.2 m ($
3.2 m)
DC      - Direct Contracting:           US$ 9.6 m (S
9.6 m)
LS      - Local Shopping:               US$ 36.4 m
($36.4 m)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Bank
includes:  DC -- $ 9.6 m ($ 9.1 m); LIEB - $12.1 ($8.7 m); and IS - $3.1 m ($2.1 m).
bLIB $5.7 m ($ 5.7 m)
c LS (households to procure materials from retail suppliers, and small local works contracts)



25 -
Table 5: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
.FY 1995           FY 1996            FY 1997
COMPONENT                                                                            TOTAL
Q_/Q2    Q3/Q4    Qi/Q2    Q3'Q4    Ql/Q2    Qt31Q4 t
Roads                                     O. 7      7.3       3.0      0.7       0.0       0.0      11.7
(percent)                                 6%c      625      27 %t      65 'c     0%       0%       100%
Railways                                   1.0      4.0      4.0       n9        0.0U      0.0        9.8
(percent)                                _10%              41 Se    41%        8%       %OSc  100%oO -
Power                                     1.8       3. 2     4.5       4.1       2.4       0.6      16.6
(percent)                                11%      19 %      27%      25 Cc     14%        4%       100%
Water, Sewerage. and Flood Protection     2.0       4.0       5.0      5.0       2.4       1.6        20
(percent)                              10.0%      20%       25%      25%       12%        8%       100%
Community Reconstruction                 14.8       8.6      7.6       5.0       2.7       1.5      40.2
(percent)                                37%      21%       19%      12%        7%        4%       100%
Agriculture                               2.5        4.5      5.0      3.2       3.0       1.5      19.7
(percent)                                13%      23 %      25%      16%       15%        8%       100%
Unallocated                                0.0      0.0       2.0       2.0      3.0       3.0       iO.0
Total                                    22.8a     31.7     31.1      20.8      13.5       8.1     128.0
(cumulative)                            22.8     54.5      85.6    106.4      119.9    128.0      128.0
Percent                                 17.8%    14.7%    24.0%      16.3%     10.5%     6.3%       100%
(cumulative percent)                   17.8%    42.6%    66.9%    83.1%    93.7%        100%
Supervision Plan
89. The implementation responsibilities for the project, as outlined in paras. 72-77, were confirmed at
negotiations. Project implementation will incorporate maximum flexibility, recognizing that it will need
to be adapted to changing circumstances. Implementation progress would be evaluated at a mid-term
review (about 18 months after effectiveness). The review would assess the need for any reallocation of
funds, based on implementation experience to date. At other times, any modifications that are needed
will be introduced first within the subcomponent or component, and second between components. In each
case, the implementing agency or agencies need to prepare a proposal for modification, in coordination
with the relevant ministry(ies) or agency and HKBO. The proposal would be reviewed and agreed with
the Bank before the modification is introduced.
90. Quarterly reports would be provided to HKBO by all the executing agencies and ministries involved
in the project, and HKBO would incorporate these reports into its quarterly report on overall progress,
which would be sent to the Bank. The first such report would follow the first three-month period
following project effectiveness. The format and content of the quarterly reports were discussed and
agreed at negotiations. The Bank's sector staff would supervise their components separately, apart from
the coordination necessary for the implementation of the conununity reconstruction component, and to
carry out the mid-term review.



-26 -
APPENDIX  I
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and IBRD Financing
Table Al .1: Roads Comvonent
Cost (US$ million).    .IBRD Fmancm
Project Components and Items     |    Local          Foreign    |   Total    |  USS   I  ,   l
1. Special vehicles witi attachments         0.0              1.0           1.0        1.0  100.0
2. Trucks                                     0.0             6.1           6.1        6. i   100.0
3. Rotary salt machines                       0.0             1.1            1.1       1.1   100.0
4. Pick up trucks                             0.0             0.6           0 6        0.6   100.0
5. Road vehicles up to 2 tons                 0.0             0.5           0.5        0.5   100.0
6. Tractors                                   0.0             0.1           0.1        0.1   100.0
7. Backhoe lo.ders                            0.0             0.3           0.3        0.3   100.0
8. Motorgraders                               0.0             0.2           0.2        0.2   100.0
9. Layer finishers                            0.0             0.2           0.2        0.2  100.0
10. Vibratory Roller                           0.0             0.3            0.3       0.3   100.0
11. VHS radio system                           0.0              0.5           0.5       0.5   100.0
12. Spare parts                                0.0              0.8           0.8       0.8   100.0
TOTAL COST                                  0.0             11.7          11.7      11.7   100.0
Table Al .2: Railways Component
Cost (US$ million)              IBRD Financin2
Project Components and Items              Local   L Foreign  |   Total           USS          %
1. Spare parts for traction and rolling stock         0.0          5.1         5.1          5.1       100.0
2. Materials and spare parts for:
(a) Tracks                                        0.0          1.9          1.9          1.9       100.0
(b) Electrification                               0.0          0.5          0.5          0.5       100.0
(c) Signalling                                    0.0          0.7          0.7          0.7       100.0
(d) Teleconmunuication                            0.0          0.3          0.3          0.3       100.0
3. Small tools for track repairs                      0.0          0.3         0.3          0.3        100.0
4. Spare parts for track maintenance machines         0.0          1.0          1.0          1.0       100.0
TOTAL COST                                         0.0          9.8          9.8          9.8       100.0



-27 -
APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated-Costs and IBRD Financing
Table A 1.3: Power Component
Cost (US$ million}     IBRD Financinig
Project Components and Items               L
Local   Foreign'  Total    US$        .
million
1. Cross Island Interconnection
(a) Civil works                                           8.3       0.0      S.3      0.0     0.0
(b) HV Circuit Breakers, Disconnect3rs & MV Switchgear    0.2       1.5      1.7      0.5    29.4
(c) Steel Towers and Steel Structures                     2.2       3.9      6.1      2.7    44.3
(d) Metal Oxide Surge Arrester                            0.1       0.2      0.3      0.1    33.3
(e) 100/35 Kv power transformer                           0.1       1.2      1.3      0.1     7.7
and 1 10 Kv Current/Voltage Transformers
(f) AC/DC Auxiliary Power Supply                          0.1       0.6      0.7      0.3    42.8
(g) Protection, Control, Measurement & Telecommunication  0.4       1.8      2.2      0.6    27.3
(h) Cables, Conductors and Accessories                    1.8       4.6      6.4      2.3    35.9
(i) Overhead ground wire with optical fiber               2.1       3.4      5.5      3.4    61.8
(j) Undersea cable                                        0.0      12.0    12.0       0.0     0.0
Sub-total 1                                           15.3     29.2    44.5       10.0    22.5
2. Dubrovnik Area Distribution
(a) 35/10 Kv and 10/0.4 Kv Distribution Transformers      0.1       0.7      0.8      0.7    87.5
(b) MV and LV Equipment                                   1.8       2.3      4.1      2.3    56.1
(c) Insulators                                            0.0       0.1      0.1      0.1   100.0
(d) MV/LV Overhead Cables, Conductors and Accessories     0.6       1.4      2.0      1.4    70.0
(e) Mobile Underground Cable Detector                     0.0       0.3      0.3      0.3   100.0
(f) Wooden Poles                                          0.3       0.3      0.6      0.3    50.0
(g) Household KWH Meters                                  0.2       0.4      0.6      0.4    66.7
(h) Street Lights                                         0.1       0.1      0.2      0.1    50.0
(i) Hardware                                              0.1       1.0      1.1      1.0    90.9
Sub-total 2                                           3.2       6.6      9.8      6.6    67.4
Total Cost (1+2)                                        18.5      35.8    54.3      16.6    30.6



- 28 -
APPENDIX I
Paee 3 of 5
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and IBRD Financing-    --
Tahle Al.4: Water SunnlAy. Sewerage and Flood Conitrol Comlponent
REGION           TOW' N                   COMPONENT                    COST (USS ni.)                   IBRD
Local   Foreign    Total   USSm    Sc
Northeast    Osijek (item 1)     Replacement of damaged water supph     2.0      2.5        4.5    2 2       49
pipeline
Vinkovci 12)       Replacement of water treatment plant   2.1      1.5        3.6    1.5       42
and pumping station
Vinkovci (17.1)    Sewerage systems, O&M equipment        0.15    0.35        0.50    0.3       60
Osijek (17.2)      replacement                            0.16    0.64        0 S0    0.4       50
Zupanja (6)        Replacement of a damaged water well.   0.6      0.3        0.9    0.4       44
reconstuction of a water pumping
station and connecting transmission main
Valpovo-Belisce    Repair of sewage treatment plant.      0.3      0.3        0.6    0.3        50
(9)                pumnping station and town network
Valpovo-Belise     Repair of water supply systems and/or  0.2      0.1        0.3    0.2        66
(12.4 & 12.5)      replacement of maintenance equipment   0.1      0.2        0.3    0.1        33
for water systems
Dakovo (14)        Repair of damaged water pipeline and   0.4      0.5        0.9    0.5       55
replacement of damaged wells
Various locations    Various flood control works (dike    2.3      0.5        2.8     1.0       36
(21)               rehab.. control structures, and
_monitoring systems)
Upper        Karlovac (4)        Restoration of distribution network,   0.7      0.5        1.2    0.6       50
water source works and pumping station
Central      Slavonski Brod      Repair of transmission main and        0.6      0.7        1.3    0.7       54
(5)                replacement of an elevated water tank
Nova Graditka (7)   Repair of water treatment plant       0.4      0.4        0.8    0.4       50
Nasice (8)         Replacement of damaged water wells     0.4      0.5        0.9    0.6       66
Pakrac-Lipik (10)   Repair of sewage treatment plant and  0.6      0.4        1.0    0.5        50
main collector
Karlovac 111)      Repair of sewage collection system     0.3      0.5        0.8    0.4       50
Novska (12.1)      Repair of and/or replacement of        0.2      0.1        0.3    0,2       66
Grubisno Poje      maintenance equipment for water        0.1      0.1        0.2    0.1        50
(12.2)             systems                                0.2      0.2        0.4    0.3        75
Ogulin (12.3)
Sisak (20)         Development of new ground water         1.8     1.6        3.4    1.7       50
source
Sisak (17.4)       Sewerage systems, O&M equiprnent       0.12    0.28        0.4    0.2        50
Slavonski Brod     replacement                            0.12    0.48        0.6    0.3        50
(17.7)                                                    0.1      0.1        0.2    0.1        50
Novska (17.8)
Various locations    Various flood control works          2.2      0.5        2.7     1.0       36
(21)                                                                         . _ _ _I_I_I



- 29 -                                            APPENDIX  I
Page 4 of 5
Lower        Baske Ottarije      Repair and/or replacement of           0.1      0  .      0.2     0 1       so
Central      (Item 12.6)         maintenance equipment for water supply    0;1   01         (.2    0.1       50
Hrmotma (Senji)    systems
(item 12.7)
Gospic (item 3)    Repair of aboveground water suppivl.    0.4   -0.2         0.6     0.3  .   5u
structure
OWodac (Item 13)    Repair of water distribution network  0.3      0 I        0 4     0 3       75
Gospic (item IS)    Repaif of sewage nreatmeuht plant      1.4     1.6        30      1.3      43
Otocac (item 16)    Repair of sewage treatinentplant      0.9      I 1        2.0    1.1        55
Pag (item 19)      Construction of second undersea pipeline   0.5  1.4        1.9    1.3        68
to increase supply to meet refugee
demnand
Southwest    Unesic (item        Repair and/or replacement of           0.2      0.1        0.3    0.2       66
12.8-)             maintenance equipment for water supply
systems
Sibenik (item      Sewerage systems. O&M equipment        0.112   0.38        0.50    0.2       40
17.5)              replacement                            0.10    0.10        0.20    0.1      50
Zadar (item 17.6)
Biograd Na Moru-   Development of new ground water        0.7      0.5        1.2    0.8        67
Filip Jakov (item  source
18)
South        Dubrovnik (item     Sewerage systems, O&M equipment        0.06    0.24        0.30    0.2      67
17.3)              replacement
-a, l                                              .                                                - .- .0 . 
1tTotal       __ __ _    I20     1      9.2                                                1 40.2 120.0    I s0



-30 -
APPENDIX  I
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA                                          Page 5 of 5
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJEC-T
Estimated Costs and IBRD Financing
Table A1.5: Community Reconstruction Component                    -  -
Cost (US$ nuillon)           IBRD Financing
Project Components and Items                 Iocat_Foreign       _Total _US$_ni __l_o_
.             ~~~~Local    Foreign  lotal   _$  million | 
I. Housing: Building Materials                           33.8       6.0       39.8          29.0          73
2  Schools                                                1. 7      0.5        2.2           2 2         IOU
3. Health Facilities                                      2.1       0.7        2.8           2.8         100
4. Village water supply networks                          1.8        1.5       3.3           2.4          80
5. Low voltage power networks                             2.8       3.5        6.3           3.6          56
6. Technical Assistance and Training                      0.1       0.2        0.3           0.2          67
TOTAL COST                                            42.3       12.4      54.7         40.2           73
Table AI.6: Agnculture Component
Cost (US$ million)         IBRD Financing
Project Components and Items                 LocallForeign_I_Total______nI__1___n __
Local    Forci n       Tota    US million      5
1. Livestock   (a) Heifers                                    0.3        3.2        3.5            3.5    100
(b) Mares                                          0.0         0.5       0.5            0.5    100
(c) Goats                                          0.2         1.5       1.7            1.7    100
(d) Boars                                          0.0         0.1       0.1            0.1    100
(e) Vehicles for veterinarians                     0.0         0.6       0.6            0.6    100
(f) Liquid Nitrogen Containers                     0.0         0.1       0.1            0.1    100
(g) Transport Vehicles for Frozen Semen            0.0         0.2       0.2            0.2    100
(h) Semen Transport Containers                     0.0         0.1       0.1            0.1    100
Sub-total 1                                                0.5         6.3       6.8             6.8    100
2. Farm Machinery  (a) Tractors (40-50 hp)                    0.0         2.0       2.0            2.0    100
(b) Tractors (50-60 hp)                   0.0         2.6       2.6             2.6    100
(c) Tractors (60-65 hp)                   0.0         2.1       2.1             2.1    100
(d) Motor Cultivators                     0.0         0.9       0.9             0.9    100
(e) Trailers (single/double axle)         0.0         0.9       0.9             0.9    100
(f) Attachments (various kinds)           0.0         1.3        1.3            1.3    100
Sub-total 2                                                0.0         9.8       9.8             9.8    100
3. New Grain Dryers
- Osijek (40 tons/hr)                         0.0         0.7       0.7             0.7    100
- Novska (30 tons/hr)                         0.0         0.7       0.7             0.7    100
- Lipik (25 tons/hr)                          0.0         0.6       0.6             0.6    100
- Nova Gtadiska (25 tons/hr)                  0.0         0.6       0.6             0.6    100
Sub-total 3                                                0.0         2.6       2.6             2.6    100
4. Services (for Procurenent)                                  0.3        0.2       0.5            0.5    100
TOTAL COST                                                     0.8       18.9       19.7           19.7    100



- 31 -
APPENDIX 2
Page I of 8
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements for the Community Reconstruction Component
Reconstruction plans
1.    The importance of creating conditions for returning displaced people to their homes has placed a
high priority on the repair of damaged housing, infrastructure, and the resumption of -agricultural
activities. As soon after the war as it was feasible, the former Agency for Reconstruction assembled the
reports of local damage assessment teams, and, in cooperation with local govermments, HKBO and local
banks, defined much of the necessary administrative framework for assisting in housing reconstruction.
The first phase of reconstruction is to repair houses with the least amount of damage, since more housing
units can be made habitable at lower cost. An early program of soft loans for housing repair was
essentially a materials onlv program, covering about 40 percent of the assessed cost of the damage.
Homeowners with houses in categories I, II, and III only were considered eligible, in order to make as
many units habitable as possible, at lower cost. Resources for the program were limited, and were
exhausted fairly rapidly. Some elements of the program - the procedures for damage assessment,
presentation of house titles, and procurement of materials through a voucher scheme were retained as an
integral part of the recent (November, 1993) law on financing the reconstruction of damaged housing and
other buildings, which provides for the on-lending of HKBO funds through commercial banks to affected
householders. An ongoing program is providing DM 100 million, to be made available as reconstruction
loans throughout Croatia, along these lines.
2.      The HKBO currently receives funds from several sources, including the payment of founding
capital (DM 1 billion has been designated by the Goverrnent) and part of the proceeds of the sale of state
enterprises. HKBO will also receive any proceeds from the repayment of the various loans handled by
HKBO, including anticipated proceeds under the Community Reconstruction Component of the Bank's
loan.
3.    The main features of the Government's ongoing program, based on the new law, are as follows:
- Eligible households request loans up to the maximum amount from commercial banks
participating in the program.
-  The commercial bank reviews the request and determines the kind of security needed. This
could include a pledge of the title to the property, but is more likely to consist of a personal
guarantee, a co-guarantee from another family member, or in some cases, the guarantee of the
local goverrnent.
- The commercial bank aggregates the loan applications and requests funding from HKBO.
From its cash on hand, HKBO makes a loan to the commercial bank to fund the commercial
bank's loans to householders.



- 32 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 2 of 8
- Having received funds from HKBO, the commercial bank disburses its loan to the
householder. Disbursement is in the form of a voucher (letter of credit) and cash (liniited to
30 percent of the total loan). The householder uses the voucher to acquire building supplies
from retailers. The cash is used to hire local contractors for specialized services such as
plumbing, and electrical wiring.
-  The building supply retailers presents the vouchers to the commercial bank that provided the
householder loan, and is reimbursed directly by the commercial bank.
- At the end of the loan's grace period, the comnercial banks will collect payments from the
householders; at the same time, they will repay their own loans from HKBO.
4.     The terms and conditions of the commercial bank loans to householders are established under the
November 1993 law. The loans carry a zero percent interest rate, and have a grace period of four years
(for damage in Categories l-III), or five years (for damage in Categories IV-VI), and the following
repayment terms:
Category I           5 years
Category 11          7 years
Category III         10 years
Category IV          15 years
Category V           20 years
Category VI          25 years.
5.     The commercial banks are permitted to collect a fee of one percent on the original loan amount,
but the fee is waived during the grace period, and is payable over the repayment period. In addition, the
banks assume all loan repayment risk, and will incur write-offs of their net worth if some loans are not
repaid. Thus for the commercial banks, it is expected that the program will not be profitable, and in
most cases, will fail to cover the banks' out-of-pocket costs for processing the loans. However, given the
importance of the program to the immediate reconstruction of the housing sector, most domestic banks
seem to view the program as part of their responsibility to the community and to be willing to participate
in the program. In fact, 42% of the DM 100 million program has been disbursed within the last few
months.
6.     The HKBO loans are required by legislation to be on terms similar to the commercial banks'
loans to householders (para. 4 above). However, HKBO assumes the risk of non-payment by commercial
banks. HKBO intends, therefore, to establish internal credit ceilings that would limit its credit exposure
to any single commercial bank. In addition, as required by law, both the commercial banks and HKBO
are obliged to prepare annual financial statements. The statements would be audited by international
auditing companies in association with local auditing firms. In addition, the law requires certain
minimum prudent banking practices, including provisions concerning write-offs of delinquent accounts.
The Emeraencv Reconstruction Project
7.     As outlined earlier, the damage sustained by many communities is such that reconstruction efforts
on several fronts - housing, locaI infrastructure, social facilities, agricultural equipment, etc. - are



-33 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 3 of 8
needed simultaneously. The component has therefore been designed to address reconstruction needs in
high priority groups of communities only. The selection process aims at rapidly increasing the stock of
serviceable housing. The conimunity reconstruction component will therefore include the reconstruction
of housing, and of minimum levels of social and physical infrastructure (i.e., primary schools and health
facilities, low voltage power networks, and water and sanitation facilities) in a limited number of
communities. The community reconstruction component will be linked to the agriculture component by
ensuring that prioritv is given to those farmers from priority groups of cominunities (Appendix 3).
8.    Priority was- based on several criteria, including (i) the extent of damage in the area -- first
consideration was given to areas with a higher proportion of damaged housing units (since those with lese
damage would be better able to mobilize sufficient resources to address reconstruction needs); (ii)
maximwn efficiency -- i.e. in heavily damaged areas, communities with a high proportion of units with
easily repairable damage (i.e., in categories I-III) were identified, since this would allow more units to be
repaired with the available resources, and would allow a larger number of displaced families to return to
their homes; and (iii) maximizing economic benefits -- i.e., priority was given to areas where the
potential for resuming productive activities is greatest (as a proxy for this, priority was assigned to
communities with constant or growing populations and with viable agricultural production).
9.     Eligible communities were then grouped into clusters on the basis of their "catchment areas" for
schools and health services, resulting in sixteen groups of priority cornmunities (including about 100
villages and towns in all), in five regions of Croatia. The communities are listed in Table A2.2 in this
Appendix, and maps of the areas are in the Project File (Appendix 5). Based on current estimates, to
address most damaged housing in categories 1-III, and some of the damage in category IV, in these
communities. The Government has confirmed its commitment to finance any additional eligible housing
reconstruction in these priority groups of communities, or to provide a ranking of the conmmunities in
order of priority, acceptable to the Bank, should the needs be larger than currently estimated.
10.   Within these areas, all households with (a) title to a house which has sustained war-related
damage in categories 1-111, and (b) official assessment of such damage, would be entitled to financial
assistance, in the form of vouchers (letters of credit), for the repair of the damage. Within priority
groups of communities, criteria for eligibility would thus be objective, transparent, and verifiable.
11.   The component includes:
(i)    Assistance for Housing Repair: Vouchers for building materials - with a value of up to
DM 6,000 (about US$3,500) equivalent for Category III damage would be provided to
households in the priority groups of connunities. When damage in Categories I-III is
substantially completed, remaining funds can be used for undertaking repairs of housing
damage in higher categories in the priority groupings of conmmunities; for example, up to
DM 12,000 (about US$ 7,000) would be allocated per housing unit for Category IV
damage. Such an amount would provide assistance to up to 8,000 households. Estimated
allocation: US$ 29.0 million equivalent.
(ii)    Repair/Reconstruction of Social Infrastructure. The most urgent repair works in the
priority groups of communities, based on needs in the schools' and health facilities'
catchment areas, would be carried out under the component. Estimated allocation: US$ 5
million equivalent.



- 34 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 4 of 8
iii)   Repair/Reconstructidn of Communitv Networks. The most urgent works for water and
sanitation facilities and low voltage power networks in the prioritlY groups of boinniiunities
would be included. Estimated allocation: USS 6 million equivalent.
Project Financing
12..   Vouchers for building materials would be provided to households in the priority groups of
comniunities, using procedures already in operation under the Government ongoing loan scheme, with
appropriate modifications, The project would provide funds for a minimum amount of materials and
some funding of the costs of specialized repair services. It is estimated that the materials acquired
through the voucher scheme represent some 50 to 60% of the total cost of housing repairs. The labor and
equipment being supplied by the household, and specialized services such as plumbing and electrical.
wiring, constitute the rest of the cost.
13.   Under the present circumstances. i.e.. loss of assets of many agricultural families, and additional
reductions in income-earning capacity in many families because of the injury or death of family members,
combined with the need to rapidly increase the stock of serviceable shelter in the country, the use of
commercial terms for housing loans would present a burden that most households would not be able to
bear. During the transitional reconstruction period in which income levels are likely to remain low, the
use of somewhat concessional terms is appropriate. Households would repay the amounts in accordance
with the terms of the November 1993 law (para. 4); i.e., loan periods of 5, 7, and 10 years for dainage
in Categories l, II, and IIl, respectively, with a grace period of four years, and for a loan period of 15
years for damage in Category IV, with a five year grace period.
14.   The situation regarding the return of households to their conmmunities is evolving rapidly; some
households have already contracted housing repair loans under HKBO's ongoing program, and it is not
known how many households are currently using their own resources to reconstruct their homes. There
are indications that some of the damaged housing that was originally placed in categories l-Ill may have
deteriorated further due to exposure to harsh weather. It has been agreed that, within the priority groups
of communities, wherever repairs of Category 1-111 housing has already been substantially completed.
surplus funds can be reallocated for undertaking repairs to Category IV housing damage. Average costs
for these types of repairs provide for the reconstruction of the basic necessities of a typical house, such as
a rebuilt roof and reconstruction of some 30 m2 of space for living, sleeping, bathing and food
preparation. Again, in the interest of spreading the available funds as widely as possible, these Category
IV housing damage repairs have been estimated for minimum expenditure and cover only essential
building materials (no labor).
15.   An amourit of US$ 5 million would be made available for the repair of schools and health care
facilities (about US$ 2 million for schools, and US$ 3 million for health facilities). About US$ 2 million
would be available for repair/reconstruction of conmnunity water supply and sewerage networks in the
priority groups of communities. The funds would be channelled through commercial banks; the
documents would be retained by the commercial banks and be made available to the Bank on a sample
basis. An estimated US$ 4 million would be available for repair of low voltage power networks, to be
carried out by HEP. The most urgent repair works in the priority groups of communities would be
carried out under the component. The estimated total allocation for schools, health facilities, water and
sanitation facilities and low voltage power networks is US$ 11 million equivalent. Works of relatively



35 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 5 of 8
small value (contracts up to $100,000 equivalent) would be procured by local shopping, larger works (up
to $ I million) would be procured through LCB.
16.   The amounts allocated for housing, schools, health centers, and low voltage power, and water and
sewer networks in priority groups of comunities are based on the initial estimates of MEC, MOH,
HEP. HV, and the former AR. It is important that flexibility be maintained witliin this component, as the
situation is evolving fairly rapidly, with the return of families to their homes. It is proposed that- funds
for this component be made available through the special account, initially in amounts of about US$ 5
million at a time, in order to be able to maintain this flexibility and adjust to changing needs.
Implementation
17.   The Emergency Reconstruction Project Division (ERPD) in HKBO would have overall
responsibility for the component; a Community Reconstruction Unit (CRU) within this division would be
established for this purpose. The CRU would be responsible for the housing repairs vouchers scheme.
Under this scheme, housing damage assessment would continue to be made by local technical committees,
who would also ensure that the materials supplied under the program were used productively and for the
purposes intended. Assistance to households would primarily be in the form of materials vouchers
redeemable through suppliers of building materials throughout Croatia (about 70% of the loan amount
would be in the form of a voucher, and 30% would be in cash). The households would be able to seek
the best price for these building materials as there is adequate competition among suppliers. Examples of
darrage assessments, vouchers, and bank forms relating to the existing voucher scheme are in the project
file (Appendix 5, Item 7). These suppliers would subsequently be reimbursed by commercial banks, in
accordance with HKBO's existing scheme (para. 3). The reconstruction of schools and health facilities
would be implemented by MEC and MOH, respectively. Repair/reconstruction of low voltage power and
water and sanitation networks would be carried out by HEP and local water utilities, respectively. All
reconstruction work on social facilities and local water and power infrastructure would be coordinated by
CRU, which would also carry out liaison activities with MAF to ensure that these communities are given
priority for livestock and mechanization assistance within the agriculture component.
18.   The reconstruction of schools and health centers, and water and low voltage power networks,
requires the selection of qualified contractors to carry out the reconstruction work. Procurement will
follow World Bank procedures, and would consist of LS for contracts under US$100,000, and LCB for
larger contracts (but under US$ 1 million).
19.   The CRU would use the Special Account, set up under the project, for small amounts (under
$250,000) to be reimbursed under the component.
20.   The cost estimates of reconstruction works in the priority groups of communities, including
housing, are being developed into a computer model which can be continually updated, and used to
monitor implementation progress. An early version of the tables is included in the project file (Appendix
5, Item 8).



- 36 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 6 of 8
Table A2. 1: Hausing Damage in the 'Districts Affected by War
DAMAGED          CATEGORY OF
DISTRICT                         COMMUNITY         # UNITS  5%          UNITS            DAMAGE
private    unts _   c     I-in      IV-VI
I.  Zagrebacka                   Jastrebarskc          13206       93       783      6       747       36
| m. Sisacko - Moslava6ka        Novska                8478        92      2984     35      1997      987
Sisak                30032       72      4336     14      3252     1084
IV. Karlovacka                   Duga Resa             10997       84       990      9       736      254
Karlovac            29659        66      6633     22      6437      196
Ogulhi               11217       88       772      7       434      338
VII. Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska      Bjelovar             24388        87      1485      6      1078       73
Daruvar              11659       88      1939     17      1767       90
Grubi§no-Polje        5485       90       771     14       476      200
VIm. Primorsko-Goranska          Delnice                8458       85       466      6       457        0
IX. Licko-Senjska                Gospic                12086       83      3601     30      2142     1459
Otocac                8332       90      3507     42      2791      716
X.  Viroviticko-Podravska         Orohovica            5976        90       607     10       234      373
Slatina              11317       90        78    0.7        58       20
XI. PoWeNko-Slavonska            Nasice                13823       88       738      5       629      109
Pakrac               10578       86      8100     76      2050     6050
Potega              23891        87      1557      7       663      894
XII. Brodsko-Posavska             Nova Gradiska        19897       90      6624     33      4437     2187
Slavonski Brod       36376       81      7475     21      6435     1040
XIII. Zadarsko-Kninska           Biograd n/m           8777        96       438      5       438        0
Zadar                55748       81      7760     14      5731     2029
XIV. Osjetko-Baranjska           Dakovo                16148       92      1052      7       836      216
Osijek               39536       68    20500      34    15904      4596
Valpovo              11767       86      5775     49      4910      865
XV. gibenska                     Drnis                 9467        93      5016     53      5083     1933
tibenik             43804        83      4967     11      2472     2504
XVI. Vukovarsko-Srijemska         Vinkovci            31577        84     12980    41       9020     3960
;upanja              15794       90      1681     11      1630       51
XVII. Splitsko-Dalmatinska       Kastela               11804       93        29    0.3        22        7
Sinj                 15087       89      3643     24      1136     2507
Solin                10045       93         0      0         0        0
Split               65857        47       248    0.4       247         1
XIX. Dubrova!ko-Neretvanska      Dubrovnik            27633        76      3179     12      2334      845
Metkovid              7417       86       438      6       387       49
XXI. Grad Zagreb                 Velika Gorica        22386        83       495      2       401       94
TOTAL                       [                 |  688702 |           J 121647 |      |  87371 J 35763



- 37 -
APPENDIX 2
Page 7of8
Table A2.2 Priority Groups of Communitie'.
DISTRICT             GROUP        COUNTY                          COMMUNITIES                         POPULATION
A  NORTHEAST REGION (4 groupings)
XIV. Osjecko-Baranjska       L         O%tjck             Ositek town Brojest. Josipovac, Vtsnjevac. Tvrdasica   23.761
-  --    Cepfn              Ceptn. Livana                                           9,379
Vuka              Vuka, Beketinci. Vladislavci                            3,363
2.        Petnjevci          Petirje%ci                                              2,327
-                    Valpove            Valpovo, Nard                                           8.813
Behsce            Belise, Bistrinici                                      9.320
XVI. Vukovarsko-Srijemska    3.        Babina Greda       Babina Greda                                            4,215
Bosnjact          Bo>-kact                                                4,426
Sutar             S6Ear                                                   2,488
2upanja           Zupanja                                                 11,947
4.        Otok               Otok.Komletinci. Privlaka                               11,425
Vinkovci          Vinkovci                                                35,347
Nusrar            Nuitar                                                  4.080
Jarmina           Jannmina                                                2,629
TOTAL A: NORTHEAST REGION                                                                                            133,520
B. UPPER CENTRAL REGION (6 groupings)
XII. Brodsko Posavska        1.        Slavonski Brod     Slavonski Brod                                         55.683
2.        Nova Gradiska      Kovacevac, Prvca, Nova Gradiska town                   15,724
Cernik            Cernik, Cemicka tagovi                                   2,371
IV. Karlova&ka               3.        Karlovacka         Karlovac town                                          59,999
Barilovic         Belaj, Belajske Poijic. Podvozic                        1,318
Duga Resa         Duga Resa town                                           7,513
111. Sisacko-Moslavacka     4.         Sisak              Sisak town, Klobucak, Vurot                            45,996
Petnnja           Mala Gorica. Moscenica                                  5,371
Sunja             Sunja                                                   2,113
5.        Novska             Brestaca. Brocice, Stari Grabovac. Novska              10,678
XI. Potesko-Slavonska       6.         Lipik              Dobrovac, Filipovac, Kukunjevac, Lipik                  5,963
Pakrac            Perkopakra, Pakrac town                                 9,544
TOTAL B: UPPER CENTRAL REGION                                                                                        222,273
C. LOWER CENTRAL REGION (2 groupings)
IX. Lifko-Senjska            1.        Gospic             Bilaj, Gospic town, Kanjiza Gospic, Licki Ribnik,      10,643
Novoselo Bilaj, Zabica
2.        Otocac             &ovi6e, Sinac. Lesce, Lipovlje, Prozor, Raniljani,     10,294
Otocac town
TOTAL C: LOWER CENTRAL REGION                                                                                         20.937



-38-
APPENDIX 2
Page 8 of 8
Table A2.2: Priority Groups of Communities (cant.)
D. SOUTH WEST REGION (3 groupings)
XIll. Zadarsko-Kninska      1.        Zadar              Zadar. Crno                                           79.005
Biograd na moru   Biograd na moru                                        5.315
Sv. Filip il akov    Rastane g.                                           591
Novigrad          Novigrad, Paljuv                                       1,121
Policnik          Polinik, Murvica, Suhovare                             4,324
Posedarje         Posedarje, Islam Latinski                              2,312
Zemunik Donji    Zemunik Donji                                           3.347
XV. Sibenska                2.         Drnis             Kaocine, Kijud. Bristane, Karalic, Siritovci. Drinovci  2,086
XVII. Splitsko-Dalmatinska    3.       Hrvace            Hrvace. Sinj                                           13,231
TOTAL D: SOUTH WEST REGION                                                                                         111.332
E. SOUTH REGION (I grouping)
XIX. Dubrovalko-            I.         Dubrovnik         Komolac, Mokosica. Osojnik. Zupa Dubrovadka,           14,680
Neretvanska
Konavle           Durinici. Gabrili, Gruda, Komaji. Ljuta, Mihani6i,     3,262
MoZi6i, Palje Brdo, Popovici, Pridvorje. Vodovada,
TOTAL D: SOUTH REGION                                                                                               17,942



39 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements for the Agricultural Component
Backaround
1.    Croatia is well-endowed with agricultural land, totalling 3.2 million ha, or 0.68 ha per inhabitant.
Slightly less than two thirds is arable land and slightly more than one third pastures. The majority of
arable land is cultivated with annual crops, principally wheat and maize and other minor cereals (45
percent), industrial crops (5 percent), vegetables (7 percent), fodder crops (9 percent) and other crops (7
percent). Orchards and vineyards occupy only a small area (7 percent) but meadows represent one fifth
of total arable land area. Agricultural land used for crop production for direct human consumption
constitutes less than 40 percent of total land since two thirds of cereal production is used for animal feed.
2.    The most significant feature of Croatia's agricultural sector is its division into social and private
farming units. Social units, the focus of past development efforts by the former Yugoslav Government,
are larger and more capital and management intensive. Private plots, small and individually managed.
dominate the sector in terms of total acreage and employment. Of the arable land. 78 percent is privately
owned and 22 percent is cultivated by the social sector. Although private units dominate the farming
sector, social farming units are far more productive in terms of yields per hectare and income per worker.
3.    The share of agriculture (prinary production) in Croatia's GDP was I I percent in 1989, while
employment was 6 percent in 1990. The share of agroindustry (food, beverages, animal feed, sugar, and
tobacco) in GDP was 8 percent in 1989 and provided employment for 4.4 percent of Croatia's active
population. In 1989, forestry activities and wood industries together contributed 5 percent of GDP and
provided 4.6 percent of employment. The combined weight of Croatia's agro-industrial and forestry
complex therefore accounts for a substantial 24 percent of total GDP, and its contribution to export
earnings is considerable.
4.    Growth in crop production has been performing moderately well, at about 2 percent p.a. during
the 1980s. This provided a reasonable surplus in per capita food availability since Croatia's population
increased at less than 0.3 percent p.a. during the corresponding decade. Growth in livestock production
has remained stagnant duving the period due to the inappropriateness of past agricultural policies
hindering the exploitation of the abundant natural resources into a more viable animal production sector.
5.    According to the Govermnent of Croatia, war operations affected at least 40 out of 102 counties.
covering 54 percent of the Republic's surface, producing 30 percent of GDP and directly involving 36
percent of its population. The Slavonia and Baranja regions, endowed with highly productive land
resources (52 percent of Croatian cultivated land) and forest areas have been devastated. In addition,
some 19 counties suffered limited damage (e.g., destruction of grain elevators and animal feed stores).
Croatia lost control of over 25 percent of its land resources (about 500,000 ha of cultivated land), where
agricultural production has become impossible. Losses to livestock has been substantial (about one-third
of the national herd).



-   40-
APPENDIX 3
Page 2 of 7
jecContent
6.     The main objective of the agricultural component of the project would be to provide an incentive
to private farmers to return to their farms and start agricultural production, and to provide employment in
the rural accessible areas directly affected by the war. The component will therefore also help to alleviate
the social problems associated with the more than 300,000 displaced persons, the majority of whom are
farm families (about 50,000). The component would- include three subcomponents: livestock, farm
machinery, and grain drying.
7.     Livestock. The livestock subsector, which in 1991 contributed 48 percent of agricultural GDP,
suffered the greatest losses during the war. Consequently, the national herds have been reduced
considerably. Conservative estimates show that about 125,000 head of cattle have been lost (i.e., 25
percent of the national herd); 14,000 horses (40 percent); 350,000 sheep (46 percent); and 350,000 pigs
(28 percent). In order to help the Government with its rehabilitation program to increase the national
herds again, and to quickly increase milk production for the nation and displaced people, the project
would provide in-calf heifers (2,000); goats (2,000); pregnant mares (300); and 15 boars for the artificial
insemination service. In addition, it would further strengthen the veterinarian and artificial insemination
service by providing the following: one specially-designed vehicle to transport frozen semen (two were
lost during the war) and two semen transport containers for the central sperm bank; 30 vehicles and 10
semen transport containers for veterinarians (50 such vehicles were lost in the war).
8.     Farm Machinery. Pre-war estimates show that, in terms of tractors, the agricultural subsector
was over-mechanized, mainly in the socialized sector but also, to a lesser degree, in the private sector.
This was primarily due to highly-subsidized prices. However the current tractor fleet is aging and in
need of spare parts and modernization. Losses due to the war have been estimated at about 20,000
tractors plus auxiliary equipment.
9.    In the areas directly affected by the war, there is a high demand for new tractors in the 40-65 hp
range. There are currently well over 5,000 applicants. However, at market prices, only medium or large
(at least 25 ha) or highly-specialized farms can afford a new tractor. Small farmers need to form user
groups or provide contract services in order to utilize a tractor efficiently and afford the payments. The
project would provide 100 tractors of 40-50 hp, 100 tractors of 50-60 hp, and 50 tractors of 60-65 hp,
plus essential attachments and spare parts; and 100 motor cultivators of about 10 hp plus attachments and
spare parts.
10.    Grain Drvers. Before the war, Croatia had 84 grain elevators and storage silos for the national
grain and animal feed supply. Each elevator was fully equipped with grain drying facilities. Estimates
indicate that about 10 in the occupied zone and 14 in the unoccupied zone suffered heavy damage. While
many silos can be repaired by tie enterprises with own resources, some dryers need total replacement or
spare parts. While some of the affected grain silos belong to the socialized sector, most were privatized
after the war. The project would provide for the replacement of 4 destroyed dryers with new dryers
meeting envirownentally acceptable emission standards (one in Osijek, one in Lipik, one in Novska, and
one in Nova Gradiska).



41
APPENDIX 3
Page 3 of 7
IMrplementation Arrangements
11.   MAF would have the overall responsibility for the implementation of the Agriculture Component,
and will establish a small Agriculture Coordination and Monitoring Unit (ACMU} to which it will
delegate the responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the component implementation. MAF has also
appointed three implementing agencies which would- be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of
the three sub-components on behalf of MAF. In the case of breeding stock and farim machinery provided
to farmers, the Agriculture Advisory Service (AAS) would provide assistance in the selection of
beneficiaries, monitoring of farm operations, and payment arrangements. Procurement methods for the
various items to be provided under the component are tabulated in Annex A. The beneficiaries would be
required to pay a 1 % service charge to MAF to cover the collection and other services to be provided by
MAF's bank. The activities of the implementing agencies are described below.
12.   Proceeds from cash repayments will be deposited in a commercial bank to be designated by MAF
with approval of the Ministry of Finance. This bank will establish an Agriculture Development Account
(ADA), on behalf of MAF. In addition to holding the ADA, the bank will be responsible for: (i)
maintaining a ledger of individual loans; (ii) distributing notices to borrowers of payments coming due:
(iii) collecting payments from borrowers; and (iv) advising MAF and ACMU of any payments that are
overdue. In the even of any overdue payments, ACMU will be responsible for contacting the borrower
and identifying the reasons for the delay in payments, before taking appropriate action. The accounting
department of MAF will maintain records for each loan. The records will indicate the original amount of
the loan and the amount remaining outstanding. MAF will retain title to all livestock and equipment until
the loan has been fully repaid. After the final payment for each loan, MAF will transfer title to the
livestock or equipment financed by the loan.
13.   Livestock. The Center for Reproduction and Animal Breeding (CRAB), would be responsible for
the procurement and distribution of breeding stock, vehicles and equipment. Since CRAB has little
experience with competitive bidding procedures, it would be assisted by an experienced local procurement
agency, which would help in the management of the procurement process.
14.   In the case of breeding stock provided to farmers (cattle, goats, and horses), CRAB and AAS
would select beneficiaries in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (Annex B) and prepare a
detailed distribution plan which will be reflected in the delivery provisions of the bidding documents.
CRAB would be responsible for receiving animals at a quarantine station, where the animals would be
maintained under veterinarian supervision for about 30 days. Following the quarantine period, CRAB
would distribute the stock to farmers according to the distribution plan. AAS would advise farmers on
care and feeding of the stock, and monitor performance of the animals.
15.   MAF and farmers would sign contracts, agreed to by the Bank, providing for the delivery of
breeding stock to the farmers. The farmers would also provide for the shelter, nutrition, health care,
etc., of the animals. Individuals receiving livestock would repay in kind or in cash. Those paying in
kind will provide for the retum, within an appropriate period, of the first female offspring of equal
quality to CRAB (details will be spelled out in the contracts). MAP would instruct CRAB either to
distribute the returned animals to other farmers, or to sell them through auction and deposit the proceeds
of the sale into the MAF's ADA. Titles to the animals would be retained by MAF until the in-kind or
cash payments have been received.



42 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 4 of 7
16.   The 15 boars would be delivered to CRAB breeding centers for use in the artificial insemination
program. The frozen semen vehicle and two semen transport containers would be utilized by CRAB's
central sperm bank. MAF and privatized veterinary stations serving the priority groups of cormnunlities
and other project villages would sign contracts, agreed to by the Bank, providing. in particular, for the
delivery of veterinary vehicles and semen transport containers to the veterinary statior . The cost of the
vehicles and equipment, denominated in DM, would be paid in equal semi-annual installments over a
period of 5 years, including a 6-month grace period. Payments would be deposited in MAF's ADA.
-17.   Farm Machinery. MAF and farmers would sign contracts, agreed to by the Bank, providing foi
the delivery of mechanization packages consisting of a tractor, selected attachments (according to losses
suffered during the war), and spare parts to the farmers. Also, the contracts would specify the
requirements for garaging, operation, maintenance, etc., and methods of repayment in semi-annual
installments. Farmers would pay the cost of the packages, denominated in DM, over a maximum period
of 10 years, including a grace period of 2 years and no interest. Farmers would make payments to local
branches of commercial banks, or post offices, which would transfer the amounts paid by the farmers to
MAF's ADA. The Agricultural Institute Osijek (AIMO) and AAS would select beneficiaries in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Bank (Annex C) and distribute the tractor packages according to a plan,
taking into consideration the phased delivery. AIO would procure the equipment under ICB procedures
with the assistance of a procurement agency. AAS would provide advice to farmers on operation and
maintenance of the equipment, monitor performance, and encourage adherence to the payment
arrangements.
18.   In the case of a contractor receiving a tractor, payment will also be on an installment purchase
arrangement, but on terms that are closer to normal commercial terms, and that will be specified in a
contract to be agreed with the Bank. The maximum period will be five years, with one installment in the
first year and two installments in each of the next four years. Similar arrangements would be introduced
for motor cultivators, which will be specified in a farmer contract to be agreed with the Bank. The
maximum period will be five years, with a one yeat grace period; one installment in the second year, and
two installments in each of the next three years.
19.   Grain drving. The Faculty of Agronomy's Department of Agricultural Technology, Storage, and
Transport (DATST) would undertake procurement of the new dryers under ICB procedures with the
assistance of a procurement agency and in coordination with the beneficiary enterprises.
20.   MAF and enterprises would sign contracts, agreed to by the Bank, providing for the delivery,
assembly and erection of the grain dryers. Also the contracts would define the enterprises'
responsibilities and the method of payment. The enterprises would make semi-annual repayments to
MAF's ADA. The interest rate would be 3%. The principal would be denominated in DM and would be
paid over a period of ten years. The grace period would be a maximum of two years depending on
whether commissioning of the dryers takes place in May or later in the agricultural year. In addition, the
enterprises would provide repayment guarantees to MAF's commercial bank.



-43 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 5 of 7
Annex A: Detailed Procurement Table: Agriculture Component
Procurement Method
Project Components and Items              I        |                     -         -         -                   Total
1G.B   JLIB        is       DC       LCB         LS       Cons,   co____  I___t
1. Livestock sub-component
(a) Breeding stock
Cattie                                       3.5
(3.5)
Goats                                        17
Horses                                      0.5
(0.5)
Boars  -0.1
(0. 1)
(b)   Veterinary vehicles
2-wheel drive                             0.3
(0.3)
4-wheel drive                             0.3
(0.3)
(c)   Artificial insemination equipment
Truck                                                0.2
(0.2)
Liquid nitrogen containers                           0.1
(0.1)
Semen transport contatners                           0.1
___ __ __ __ _  (0.1)
sub-total I: Livestock                                 5.7       1.1                                               6.8
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ __   _ ___ ___ (5 .7 )   1 1  6,
IT. Farm Machinery subcomponent
(a)   Tractors and implements
Tractors                          6.7
(6.7)
implements (attachments and
trailers)                         2.2
(2.2)
(b)   Motor cultivators                      0.9
____________   ________________________        (0.9)
subtotal II: Farm Machinery                  9.8                                                                   9.8
___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ _ ___   (9.8)                                                     (9.8)
m. Grain Dryer-,
2.6                                                                   2.6
Four new grain dryers                        (2.6)                                                                  (2.6)
Consultant Services for  .ocurement                                                                          0.5        0.5
_______                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~(0 5)  (0.5)
Total: Agriculture Component                    |12.4    15.7        1.1             1 -                  10.5        119.7
1(12.4) 1(5.7)   (1.)1 I                       1         1(0.5)    1(19-7)



-44 -
APPENDIX 3
Page 6 of 7
Annex B
Livestock Selection Criteria
1) First priority for breeding stock is given to private farmers in the priority groups of communities-
Remaining livestock is provided to private farmers in other damaged villages.
2) The farmer has suffered substantial damage in the war, including the loss of some or all of his
livestock.
3) The farmer must demonstrate that he intends to rehabilitate his farm and operate it on a continuous
basis, by starting repairs of his buildings and/or beginning livestock production.
4) The farmer must have adequate housing for the animal(s) and be able to provide sufficient feed of
suitable quality.
5) The farmer must have access to veterinarian services and agree to keep his animals in healthy
condition.
6) The fanner must have access to artificial insemination services (where appropriate).
7) The farmer must have access to mnarketing facilities for his livestock products (e.g. dairy plants in the
case of cattle).
8) The farmer must be willing to maintain suitable records on the performance of his animals and
provide this information to CRAB and AAS on a regular basis.
9) The farmer must be able to provide one other person who will guarantee that he will pay for the
livestock as agreed, or make available his property as collateral, e.g. land..
10) In marginal cases, the Borrower will utilize the livestock model provided by FAO/CP to assess
repayment capacity of the farmer.



- 45 -
APPE-NDIX 3
Page 7 of 7
Annex C
Tractor Selection Criteria
1) First priority for tractor packages is given to private farmers, groups of farmers, or private
contractors. under separate selection criteria 4/ in the priority groups of communities. Remaining
packages are provided to private farmers in other eligible villages.
2) The f4rmers has suffered substantial damage in the war, including the loss of his tractor. He does not
have a tractor at present.
3) The= farmer must demonstrate that he intends to rehabilitate his farm and operate it on a continuous
basis, by starting repairs of his buildings and/or beginning crop production.
4) The farner must have adequate shelter for the tractor.
5) The farmer already has a reasonable set of tractor implements in working condition (the few
implements to be provided under the project can only supplement existing implements.) In the
exceptional case where the farner receives a full set of basic implements under the project, this criterion
would not apply.
6) The farmer must be able to utilize the tractor at a reasonably efficient level and obtain sufficient
income from its use to operate and maintain it properly and pay for it on agreed terms. The following
factors will be considered in making this determination.
a) The farmer must utilize the tractor on at least 25 ha (for the 40-50 hp size), 30 ha (for the 50-
60 size), and 35 ha (for the 60-65 hp size). If the farmer has less than these areas in owned and
leased land, he must have a written understanding with neighbors for sharing the tractor or for
providing custom services on the remainder.
b) These minimum areas assumne a mixed farm with additional income from livestock activities.
If it is a crop farm, the area for utilization of the tractor should be larger. (The FAO/CP model
can be utilized to determine area required.)
7) The farmer must have sufficient capacity to pay for the tractor package on an installment purchase
arrangement. The criteria indicated above will give some assurance on adequate income generation, but
AIO and AAS will also consider other factors in assessing payment capacity (e.g. other debts of the
farner).
8) The farmer must be able to provide two persons who will guarantee that he will pay for the tractor on
agreed terms, or to make available his property as collateral, e.g. land.
4/ Contractors will pay for tractors on an installment purchase arrangement, on terms that are closer to
normal commercial terms, which will be specified in a contract to be agreed with the Bank. The
maximum period is five years, with one installment in the first year and two installments in each of the
next four years.



RIEPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Organization
NIlBO
Project coordination. reporting.
loan account responsibility
HC               HZ               HEP               HiV                    MAF
Roads           Railways           Power             Water               Agricullure
(Jtiilties                                                                                  Pover           I Jldlittes
Conmmcial
I        l             H~~~~~ankfi
CRAB                       A10                     DATST lX.':
(livcstock)           (farmr machinery)          (grain dryers)
| farmers  |              | farmers  |           |  cnterprues                            uhohls



-47-
APPENDIX 5
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Financing of Watof Supply. Sewerage and Flood Control Component
WORLD BANK
(Through MOF)
US$20M
Loan
|HV                I    US$8.2M                 HKBO
Loan
US$12M                                US$8.2M   Original HKBO Funds
Water Management Fund                           US$20.OM World Bank Funds
I I    j____^  
US$12M                      IUS$28.2M
Grant                     i     Loan
US$28.2M
Loan,
-Repayment I
COMMUNITIES



48.. 
APPENNDIX 6
Summary Table of Procurement iMethods
COMPONENT                       ICB      LIB      IS     DC    LCB    Otber  Cottw.   NA'    NBF    TOTAL
ROADS.
Vehicles. equipment, & spare                  11 7                                                                        11 7
parts                                    4114                                          f                               I
RAILWAYS
Parts. equipment. tools, etc                  2 7             0.2    6.9                                                  9 8
(2.7)           (0.21  (6 69498
POWER
Equipment. etc. (goods)                      12 .7     8.6    0.9   2.2                                       21 6 -    46 0
(8 4)    (6.0)   (0.4)  (1.8)                                             (16.6)
Workls                                                                                                          8.3       8.3
I                                      __  _             _               _                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(00)
subwtoal                                    12.7     8 .6    0.9    2.2                                      29.9      54.3
(8 4)    (6 0)   (0.4)  (1.8)                                             (16.6)
WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE, & FLOdb
CONTROL
Civil works                                  13.0                             9.6                               0.9      23.5
(4.5)                          (3.3)                                       (7.8)
Equipment                                     9.4      3.5    2.0    0.5                                                 15.4
(7.3)   (2.7)   (1.5)  (0.4)                                              (11.9)
Consultants' services (design)                                                                1.3                         1.3
(0.3)                      (0.3)
subtotal                                   22 4      3.5    2.0    0.5      9.6              1.3              0.9      40.2
(11.8)   (2.7)   (1.5)  (0.4)   (3.3)           (0.3)                      (20.0)
COMMUNfTY RECONSrRUCTION
Building materials (goods)                                                           29 0                      10.8      39.8
(29.0)'                             (29.0)
Works for schools, health facilities, water &                                 3.6     7.4                       3 7      14.7
sewerage, & low voltage power networks                                      (3.6)   (7.4)'                             (1 1.0)
0.2                         02
Consultant services                                                                          (0.2)                       (0 2)
subtotal                                                                    3.6    36.4    0.2               14.5      54 7
(3.6)  (3,.4)   (0.2)                      (40 2)
AGRICULTURE (goods only)
Breeding stock                                         5.7                                                                5.
(5.7)                                                              (57)
Vehicles. equipment, & spare parts           12.4              I.1                                                       13.5
(12.4)           (1.1)                                                     (13.5)
Services (for procurement)                                                                    0.5                         0.5
(0.5)                      (0.5)
subtotal                                    12.4     5.7    1.1                              0.5                        19.7
(12.4)    (5.7)   (I 1)                         (0.5)                      (19.7)
ADDITIONAL AREAS (Unatlocated)                                                                        14.9                14-7
_ _                                ~~~~~ ~         ~ ~~~(10.0)  (100)
TOTAL                                         61.9    17.8    4.2    9.6    13.2    36.4    2.0   14.9          45.3    205.3
(47.0)   (14.4)   (3.2) 1(9.1)1  (6.9)  (36.4) 1  (1.0) 1(10.0)1    (0.0)1  (128.0)
Non-Allocated
Building materials vouchers
'Local shopping for smtatl works



- 49 -
APPENDIX 7
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1.    Basic Elements of the Infrastructural Reconstruction and Development Programme for the Republic of
Croatia.
Published by the Ministry for Reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Finance of
the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction, Zagreb, 1992.
2.    The Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction, various publications, including:-
(a)    Statutes on the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction.
(b)    Law on Financing the Reconstruction.
(c)    Law on Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction.
(d)    Tasks and Activities.
(e)    Cooperation with Commercial Banks in the Financing of Reconstruction.
3.    Extract from 'Narodne novine" - Official Gazette of the Reublic of Croatia: Decree on the Agency
for Reconstruction (2 pages); also see item 9.
4.    Croatia: Background Paper on Housin,e and Buildings, and Background Paver on Beneficiary
Selection, by Mila Ziatic, consultant, November 1992.
5.    Croatia: Possible Housing and Buildings Component., by David Cook, consultant, November 1992
6.    Maps showing areas for project assistance under the Community Reconstruction Component.
7.    Assistance to Households for Building Materials (various documents related to existing soft loans
scheme).
&.    Commnunity Reconstruction Component: Preliminary cost estimates.
9.    Decree promulgating the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Croatian Credit Bank for
Reconstruction, Article 2, whereby Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction takes over the
responsibilities, etc. of the Agency for Reconstruction (English translation).
10.   Resolution promulgating the Law on Financing the Reconstruction of Housing and Industrial Objects
Damaged and Destroyed by War; Zagreb, 29 November, 1993 (English translation)



- -
0   
iXi '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@                      G  ii
Pz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
<:~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-z51-              -            APPENDIX  8
Page 2 of 9
Destroyed orchards, farm buildings and equipment, near Gospic
' 4
I _
X                                                             _



APPEJNDIX 8
Page 3 o' 9
Grain silo and
damaged grain dryer
near Novska
Damaged
housing and
Cemetery, Nustar
_ 'oj-s=~~~~~~~~~~~



53 -
APPEN{DIX 8
I'aae 4 oJ 9
Hospital in Vinkovci
Housing in the Konavle area, Dubrovnik



{r mi lilE :
Bw iOvistE rNir X ll E 
"s, 01R
-  i: | | | rsc             l  it: -
./ IL s
::;7 U
tro ,<
'wn tl
q: 3s



- 55 
APPENDIX 8
P.ee 6 ot 9
Housing in Cilipi,
Dubro-inik
,Rp'



*                            5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()t
APPl' I)IX 8
Page 7 ot '9
I. I
Railways: Workshop in Vinkovci
Damaged rolling stock



- 57 -
APPENDIX 8
Page 8 of 9
,A>
Damaged railway stock
-   atth       v R
Bridged atterailay  Ritock sje



| | | | | I | | | | | | | | 
- _ - | * ilE S S S g w
l!' i 11111 _ | | * E | | S S S
I _ l 11111E _ 111 I la E * s S s . *
i , l _ _ E I 211 11; | * g | | v
I 1v1 | | s I I | I I | I | | | _
| - l - _ | | N | l | l | | X 
l l-_ - g la a X / . X __ __a_
X l - _ v S z r t - ,__ _,__ __ _
I 111 l - @ @2 111 I w 
l S l B _ _ S1 __ __
i w l w _ _ SS          _ 
X _ _ EG 
.   S #s _  _   S            _S =_ 
l lii | g _ _ 1|11 _ _§;.'.9&+.,;'>.t,9
l _ | IIIS _ _ | _S E,8'% 
I * | | - - | L 
_ | - _ _ - S _ A
- | * _ _ | _t  -
| _ * _ _ _ lle ,  _              _
l _ | - _ _ - 
S _ S _ _ _ S _r                 _ 
I 111 * I o o _X_
I | I | | - | ''j' 
l M _ _ _ M w _w_^
| | | | _ _ | 
| | _ _ _ S - _ w
| _  Qlilg BIEII _  _  B  _ _B _ ' 
B s S S _ _ w X .,e
s ne sa _ _ _   __ _>e'Wb
I N sl a _ , \  _   _  7o
l o | * t>. z _ _
| | | | ! ^ . t .................. w X
. _ K _ s
| JIEI WdB T __ - ,:.S.:48_ &____
rm, s v __ _I _
' ' ." -- .   _ _                   .
,,. . : , _ __
L , . . ,. 
S1! . . ' _ _
S ' _ __
Nih' . .- _ __
S3BI ': ' _ ____ _
L ' " .'' ' _   _ _                    ,
sslllK - _ .
_. _ ___s
_%. . ' _ _
. :. -, :  ___
. :: - _ __ 
a :,:., - _ 
_ __
__
__ __
___
s __
_s _t
__ _.
__                  :;
__                           _
____g_ _e         1_+
f ' X
w       %            i
__ _ w  =
_ __L z
_=== _                       re
_  ____  \;
xD
_
_ z
.
£ f,



-        IBRD 24V Sv
\   A  U    S    T    R   I   A   -/,    r < _ -  r-  >*- -  -,                     .                        
AUSTRIA               _                   
.. > _  ^.A >   ;_            H U N G A R Y                                          C R CROATIA
¼. ~~~~~~~~~~~~HNAYEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DAGETOHOUSINGSTOCK
-J'                        ,           2                8  s ~~ -  Kop n < . . .. ........ 0  s2-
c   -/           S                                   VtN  _ )j  '  p
I-  ->                                    I ;    ..> X 7t
.~~~~~~~~~ -o'                                  0           {  
S \OVENIA N&SN3SE                                                                       5 -                                N      HEAI
\~~~~~~~O~' ''-s.t -s                                                                          - 'V
\   d /  W    \-           N                                                  (/ )
,                                                                        -4y -'--'--*4 -,  4''-'-/-
.  -0
e tP p L Q g -jfi s-                                 _                                  t'_ _ _ 
Ib*2te*4                                , \    \                        nik~~Qv,4               0-
kua
_d~~~~ .
A y, y.                      .N-                    :                  .    \   )   ,                                /  TF.R P-
BOSNIA AND             SAVI
-o       50~~s     100         1_50
MAY 1994



IBRD 2459R
s  AUSTRIA                                                                                                          R 0 A T
H U N G A R Y                 |      EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DAMAGE TO RAILWAYS AND ROADS
1 . ->.SLOVENIA  <      -.,-..|
01 '>>> J 1  '-
<   <;,;;                        ~~BOSNIA AND
H        5Xr                                  l       AER   EGOVINA  >
ss - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                   va ~P \4rrA6:< ~E
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
\t L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
C, ~ ~    ~    ~    c
FED. REP. OF
~~~-   ><            t YUGOSLAVIA
'dowdad                                                                                                    I          I      _
derd                                                                         0         50        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100    '50
mA  ,          .c*.                                                        KILOMETERS
dw.wm1bntMdr
,   __       .                                                                                                 MAY1994~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY10



IBRD 24492R
AUSTRIA    ,4                                                                                    H  N  A                                                                          CROATIA
-.& .A--                               - .-                       . <                                 H U NG ARY                                                 EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
.1   :                                      r-  6i    S S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                                      POWER COMPONENTS
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' -  -~r <  \~ EZT'^                                      ir 
; ; ~~~~~~~SLOVENIA                                            ,,;                                                                                         >°>,_-r  -,.  <,uS7D:>ns
,CA-T, 'F. AND SJSRAf'iOF O   S
SANX 1-1E;CCONNECTl0N j'.i CQNVC.E
Vidnlo   .  ~~~~~ ^   \   \   <   '       ~         ~         ~        ~        ~         ~                   '      >   ' i                    .       gl   POxYFR STF TIONS~0,m. 0Fl 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE 2 LR '"E BN O S~ N     
=zc,  =' ,':T4CkV L'Es
-    X   5I22&jkViNES
,,z,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 -~ ww 
tof  o. oog                                                                            e                                  0                50              loo              1 50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20k SRTAIN
IC  ISUISTATI NS
~~~LU   ~ ~ ~ ~~ 1 ~~POWER STAPO'NS5
C  LU
cxeT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Llo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~        ~         ~       ~        ~- c.-KIOETR
0'
~~~~~~~~or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~ ~                                                                        '        '
FED, .REP, OF
BOSNIA UAOSNDI
El             H E R Z E G 0 V I N A~~~~~~~5.~                                                     5
Too       150~~MY 99



