Report No. PIC650
Project Name             Croatia-Emergency Reconstruction Project (ERP)
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Non-sectoral
Project ID                HRPA8328
Implementing Agency       Emergency Reconstruction Project Division
Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction
(HKBO)
Strossmayerov trg 9
41000 Zagreb, Croatia
Date PID Prepared         July 22, 1994
Board Date                June 21, 1994
Objectives
1.   The primary objective of the project is to assist the Government
in restoring production levels, by easing some of the critical
physical constraints caused by war-related damage. To this end, the
project would support the Government in its reconstruction program,
focussing on the repair or reconstruction of infrastructure, on the
repair or replacement of agricultural assets, and on assisting in the
reinstatement of displaced families through the repair of damaged
housing, schools and health facilities, and local infrastructure
networks.
Description
2.   The project would provide funds for:
(a) Roads: the replacement of critical road maintenance
equipment and spare parts lost during the war.
(b) Railways: priority items including (a) spare parts for
diesel locomotives, rolling stock, and track maintenance
machines; (b) a minimum replenishment of the depleted stock
of materials for tracks, electrification, signalling, and
telecommunications; and (c) replacement of small tools for
track repairs.
(c) Power: (a) transmission interconnection in order to assure a
reliable power supply to the Zadar area; and (b)
reconstruction of the Dubrovnik area distribution networks.
(d) Water Supply, Sewerage and Flood Control: (a) about 20 small
scale water and sewerage projects to repair war-related
damage; and (b) the refurbishing of flood control systems
through repair of damaged flood control embankments, water
control structures, monitoring and communications systems in
the Sava River basin, and the replacement of damaged
construction and maintenance equipment.
(e) Community Reconstruction Component: assistance to homeowners



in priority communities that have sustained substantial
damage, in order to facilitate the return of people to their
homes, including: (a) financial assistance to homeowners for
acquisition of housing repair materials and services; (b)
reconstruction of the minimum complement of social
infrastructure (particularly primary schools and primary
health care facilities); and (c) reconstruction of
community-level water and sanitation facilities and low
voltage power networks.
(f) Agriculture: (a) assistance in rebuilding the national
herds for milk and meat production, through the provision of
pregnant cows, goats, and mares to private farmers, and
through the strengthening of artificial insemination and
veterinary services by providing boars, special vehicles,
and equipment; (b) partial replacement of lost tractors and
motor cultivators for private farmers; and (c) limited
replacement of grain dryers. Priority in the allocation of
breeding stock and farm machinery would be given to private
farmers in the priority communities.
Implementation
3.   The Government's sector agencies and ministries would be
responsible for implementation, under the overall coordination of the
Emergency Reconstruction Project Division (ERP) in HKBO.
Specifically, the roads, railways, and power components would be
implemented by Hrvatske Ceste (HC), Hrvatske +eljeznice (HZ), and
Hrvatska Elektroprivreda (HEP), respectively. Hrvatska Vodoprivreda
(HV) would implement the flood control and drainage subcomponents, and
supervise the implementation of water and sewerage subcomponents to be
carried out by local utility companies. In particular, these sector
agencies will be responsible for: (i) procurement, which will be
carried out in accordance with the World Bank's guidelines; (ii)
preparing applications, including the required supporting
documentation, to withdraw funds from the loan account; and (iii)
providing quarterly reports on project implementation to HKBO.
4.   HKBO would have responsibility for implementing the community
reconstruction component, through its Emergency Reconstruction Project
Division, together with local commercial banks -- including the
selection of beneficiaries for assistance in housing repair, the
administration of the voucher system, and repayments from households.
The reconstruction of schools and health facilities would be
implemented by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) and the
Ministry of Health (MOH), respectively. Within the priority groups of
communities, repair/reconstruction of low voltage power and water and
sanitation networks would be carried out by HEP and local water
utility companies, respectively.
5.   For the agriculture component, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
through its Agriculture Coordinating and Monitoring Unit (ACMU), will
have overall responsibility, but will appoint implementing agencies
for each sub-component -- the Center for Reproduction and Animal
Breeding (CRAB), the Agricultural Institute of Osijek (AIO), and the
- 2-



Department of Agricultural Technology, Storage, and Transport (DATST)
for the livestock, agricultural mechanization, and grain drying
components, respectively.
Cost and Financing
6.   Project costs are estimated at US$205.3 million, with World Bank
financing of US$128.0 million.
Environmental Aspects
7.   The project would follow accepted Bank procedures, and has been
assigned the environmental rating B. Any subcomponents which present
an opportunity for environmental enhancement will be designed
accordingly, and all subcomponents will be monitored during
supervision to ensure that there is no degradation to the environment.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



