Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE   COPY                          Report No. P-3120-T
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND STORAGE PROJECT
September 16, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wlthout World B*nk authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate used
in the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports, which approximates the current
rate, is:
US$l       = DO.400
Dl         = US$2.50
Dl million = US$2.50 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       = 0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer (km2) = 0.386 sq. mile - 100 ha.
1 hectare (ha)         = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)        = 2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)  = 2,205 pounds
1 quintal (q)          = 100 kg (220.5 pounds)
1 cubic meter          = 35.315 cu. ft.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Tunisia   Calendar year
Office of Cereals   = October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT         Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CCGC        Cooperative Gentrale des Grandes Cultures (Central Cooperative for
Basic Crops)
CGC         Caisse Generale de Compensation (Price Equalization Fund)
COCEBLE     Cooperative Centrale de Ble (Central Wheat Cooperative)
FAO/CP      IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program
Oc          Office des Cereales (Office of Cereals)
OPNT        Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens (Tunisian National Port
Authority)
PCC         Project Coordination Committee
PDG         President Director General
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPAR        Project Performance Audit Report
SNCFT       Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (Tunisian National
Railroad Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND STORAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiary;             Office of Cereals (OC)
Amount:                  US$42 million equivalent, in various currencies
Terms:                   The loan would be repayable over 17 years,
including a 4-year grace period with interest at
10.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:         The Government would onlend US$42 million to OC on
the same terms and conditions as those of the Bank
loan; Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk of the loan.
Project Description;    The primary objective of the proposed project is to
expand storage and throughput capacity, improve the
related domestic transport system and largely
complete the conversion from bag to bulk handling
in Tunisia's distribution system for imported grain
to meet the rapidly rising demand for industrially
milled grain. In addition, the project would
provide assistance for strengthening the technical
capacity and financial management of.OC, and in
preparing a second project aimed at similar
improvement of the distribution system for domestic
grain. The project consists of: (a)
rehabilitation, adaptation for imports, and
expansion to 30,000-ton capacity of the existing
port silo at Bizerte, and construction of a
30,000-ton port silo at Ghannouch (near Gabes); (b)
construction of three storage silos at Sfax (20,000
tons), Beja and Gafsa (10,000 tons each), and
expansion from 8,000 tons to 28,000 tons of the
storage silo at Kalaa Seghira (near Sousse); (c)
rehabilitation of the Manouba (near Tunis) storage
silo (50,000 tons); (d) construction and
rehabilitation of silo rail sidings; (e)
acquisition of about 50 bulk rail hopper cars; and
(f) technical assistance, and training.
Benefits and Risks;      The proposed project would help reduce the
congestion, handling costs, ocean freight and
demurrage charges and grain losses incurred at the
country's five main ports as well as the cost of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
domestic transport and handling of imported grain.
Other benefits would include better control by OC
over the timing of purchase of imported grain,
improved use of silo capacity as well as better
management and maintenance of silos. The technical
assistance and training included in the project are
expected to minimize the risks of inadequate
management of handling, storage and transportation
facilities which might affect benefits.
Estimated Costs:                             Local      Foreign      Total
--------US$ Million---------
Construction and Rehabilitation
of Port Silos                               14.7         12.4       27.1
Construction of Storage Silos                 14.0          8.4       22.4
Rehabilitation of Storage Silo                 2.1          2.2        4.3
Port Construction and Dredging                 0.6          0.9         1.5
Construction and Rehabilitation
of Railway Sidings                           2.7          1.7        4.4
Bulk Hopper Cars Purchase                      0.8          2.5        3.3
Engineering                                    2.2          1.3        3.5
Technical Assistance                           0.7          0.7         1.4
Total Base Cost                         37.8          30.1       67.9
Physical Contingencies                         5.7          4.5       10.2
Price Contingencies                            8.3          7.5       15.8
Total Project Cost                       51.8 /1      42.1       93.9
Financing Plan:                              Local      Foreign      Total
-------US$ Million---------
Bank                                            -          42.0       42.0
Government                                    51.8          0.1       51.9
TOTAL                                         51.8         42.1       93.9
Estimated Disbursements:             FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
------------US$ Million-----------
Annual                                0.7   12.9   16.9    8.5    3.0
Cumulative                            0.7   13.6   30.5   39.0   42.0
Economic Rate of Return;               16 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:                No. 3503-TUN, dated September 1, 1981
MAP.                                   IBRD 15783
/1 Including $14.7 million of import duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR A GRAIN DISTRIBUTION
AND STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$42 million to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a Grain Distribution and Storage Pro-
ject. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with an interest rate of 10.6 percent per annum.  The Government would on-
lend the total loan amount to the Office of Cereals (OC) on the same terms
and conditions as those of the Bank loan. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last Economic Report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects
of Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex 1; present economic projections
are provisional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on
the future of domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic
policies that will be adopted for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of
it is arid or semi-arid. The limited areas where dry-land agriculture is
possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall. The
adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by expanding ir-
rigation. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petrol-
eum, and natural gas; however, the known exploitable reserves of oil and
gas are small, and phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality. There
is considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been made to develop it
rapidly over the last decade.
4.        Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive ef-
fort towards development of its human resources, paying special attention
to education and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a
result, the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the
time of independence to 55 percent by 1980; the health and nutrition status
of the population improved, average calorie supply per capita increased
from about 80 to 112 percent of requirements, and life expectancy at birth
increased from about 48 years in 1960 to 57-years in 1978.
1/  Part I is substantially unchanged from that in President's Report No.
P-3068-TUN of May 11, 1981 for a Textile Rehabilitation Project.



5.       Tunisia's economy depends on rural activities to provide employ-
ment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide foreign exchange
earnings. Manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in both respects.
The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversified economic
structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most pressing
social problem), Tunisia remains an agricultural economy, with the rural
sector providing work for about one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction, phos-
phate mining and tourism are small, although these sectors make a vital
contribution to GDP, public revenues, savings and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange earn-
ings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another 43
percent.
The Main Economic Sectors in 1979
(in percent)
GDP /1    Employment   Exports /2
Agriculture                                   16.2           35.0          6.8
Energy/Mining                                 12.1            1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                 12.1           21.8         22.5
Tourism                                        4.8            1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                     41.2           25.4         13.4
Government Administration                     13.6           14.5            -
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1 At factor cost.
/2 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP,
in constant prices, increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from
1976 to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth
rate for the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the
entire decade 1969-79 places it among the top 10 middle-income countries;
it also marks a substantial improvement over the relatively low growth
(4 percent per annum) experienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached
$1,120 in 1979, which, in constant prices, is about 73 percent above the
1969 level.
7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely at-
tributable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning of
this period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate pro-
duction, reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together with



favorable weather conditions, resulted in a near doubling of production, a
remarkable turn-around from the slow, but continuous, decline in agricul-
tural production during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the degree of
Government control declined, and more incentives were given to private
initiative. An increasingly export-oriented investment strategy, coupled
with a dynamic marketing effort, led to a rapid growth of production, par-
ticularly in textiles, while tourism was promoted with marked success.
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite dif-
ferent, not so much in terms of overall growth (which slowed down slight-
ly), as in terms of the underlying growth factors: output in agriculture
has virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather
conditions; textile production declined in 1978, and tourism development
slowed down because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist market. By
contrast, petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phosphate process-
ing expanded making these two sectors the main engine of economic growth
over the 1976-79 period. After an exceptional low level in 1976, oil pro-
duction increased by over 12 percent per annum up to 1979; more important,
however, were the large profits reaped by Tunisia from the successive in-
creases in crude oil prices, starting in 1974. These large additional
foreign exchange earnings enabled the country to increase its investments,
from an average of slightly over 20 percent of GDP before 1975, to nearly
29 percent thereafter, and expand its public services at a rapid rate.
These two factors, in turn, triggered a rapid growth in the construction
industry and in local manufacturing of construction materials.
9.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particu-
larly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favor-
able. Even in constant prices, exports grew marginally faster than im-
ports. In addition, the terms of trade improved significantly, due to
higher export prices for oil and low import prices for grain. As a result,
the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed
on average over 72 percent of the greatly increased investment effort. The
current account deficit of $500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily
financed: grant aid and private investments accounted for about 30 per-
cent, while the remainder was covered by long-term foreign borrowing. The
increase in lending to Tunisia from public sources allowed it to reduce
borrowing from financial markets and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s,
therefore, total foreign debt disbursed increased little relative to GDP
and the debt service ratio improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange re-
serves increased in seven out of the last ten years, but still represented
only 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources. General budgetary
revenues were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of
total government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance
situation has led to a fast increase in subsidy payments to private consu-



-4-
mers and public enterprises. Such transfers have nearly doubled over the
last four years, accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays,
or 4 percent of GDP. This level of subsidies, to cover the increasing
operational deficits of public enterprises may not be sustainable in the
long term; similarly, consumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to
concentrate more systematically on the needy.
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national,
are likely to exceed Plan targets.  The Government welcomes this shift from
large capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale
industries as a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden
unemployment is currently considered the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy. During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy
could only absorb three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this, and
of the fact that migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the
overall unemployment and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and
25 percent, has not declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently under prepara-
tion. Employment generation, food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth
in the three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West,
and South) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for
overall economic growth during this period and beyond, will depend upon
future developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known
reserves, it is generally expected that oil production will decline after
1981 from its present level of 5-6 million tons per annum and will come to
an end during the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the
smaller fields that may soon become profitable will not delay the declining
production trend by more than a few years. Some off-shore fields cannot be
exploited for the time being, because they are located in areas disputed by
Libya. Gas production in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil
equivalent--toe--in 1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from
the Algerian/Italian pipeline will provide an additional supply of natural
gas, rising from 200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and there-
after.  Negotiations with Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities
of natural gas are proceeding, but have so far been inconclusive.  The
Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the off-shore gas
field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal use of all
these resources is being studied with foreign assistance, within a compre-
hensive long-term policy framework.



-5-
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-
1980s will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can
be little doubt that--except in the unlikely case of large new oil
discoveries--Tunisia will face the consequences of a decline in oil and gas
production over the next 10-15 years, and become a net importer of hydro-
carbons, perhaps as early as 1987-88. The Government is fully aware of
these developments. It agrees that the situation will require significant
policy changes in the near future and is analyzing the areas where these
changes will have to take place in the context of the preparation of the
Sixth Plan. Unlike many other developing countries, however, Tunisia has
enough lead time to introduce these changes gradually until the mid-1980s.
This will reduce the associated economic and social strains, and should
avoid major balance-of-payments problems. Assuming that the necessary
measures will be implemented, it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP
growth of about 7 percent in constant prices, until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in demand management will thus be required to avoid
balance-of-payments difficulties and maintain satisfactory economic
growth. In the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget
expenditures will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy
policies, in particular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation.
Considering the complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy
system, and the impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and
on the standard of living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population
still living in absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the
system will be a difficult endeavor, but ought to be initiated without
delay. As part of this effort, the subsidies to public enterprises, to a
large extent stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased
out. In addition, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used
more effectively to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports,
and to stimulate savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to
keep labor cost increases in line with productivity increases, particularly
since Tunisia will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to
improve its competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports
of manufactured goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes,
however, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in
turn, will require a corresponding adjustment in the investment rate below
the present average of 29 percent of GDP, so as to maintain a manageable
spread between domestic savings and investments. More resources will have
to be allocated to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and
medium manufacturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem
and reduce income disparities, between rural and urban areas as well as
within each of these areas. While investmen.ts in education, health, hous-
ing and water supply will have to continue, they should be focussed more on
the most needy income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter),
and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).



-6-
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.
Since independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 per-
cent of GDP is now devoted to social programs, although too many of the
benefits still accrue to the upper income groups. Education expenditures
rank first among budgetary outlays. The comprehensive education system
provides free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has
reached 100 percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary edu-
cation. The performance of the system, however, could be improved by:
(a) expanding vocational training programs and improving their relevance
and coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and
rural groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors, and nursing personnel and the
medical referal system is not properly functioning. As a result, the rural
poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, in-
fant mortality is still high. So far health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine. To achieve better and faster results, the
Government is planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine
and nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing situa-
tion. Subsidized housing, the cornerstone of public intervention, has not
reached the most needy groups. The housing demand from households above
the poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this end,
adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differen-
tials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as the tax
system and budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion
to focus on basic needs and poverty alleviation, with a view towards
abolishing absolute poverty before the end of this century. Maintaining a
low population growth rate will be an important factor for a significant
alleviation of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds
was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the
1976-79 period, foreign loan commitments averaged about $670 million per
annum, two-thirds of which were in the form of Official Development Assis-
tance (ODA--$450 million or some $75 per capita). About 70 percent of ODA



commitments came from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal
Republic of Germany and Canada, but also some oil-surplus countries, whose
contributions averaged about one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17
percent of total ODA was committed by the Bank Group, and some 13 percent
by other multilateral sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging
6.1 percent interest and 18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8
years. At the end of 1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at
about $2.9 billion, or one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent of
exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.8 percent in 1970.
Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s, but have
gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased activ-
ities in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign inves-
tors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from less than $20
million in 1969 to more than $100 million in 1976 and $165 million in 1979.
19.       The balance-of-payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, much will depend on the policy measures initia-
ted during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for
Tunisia to attempt to continue its policy of high investments and high
current social outlays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly
exist. The new Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware
of this danger and recognizes the need for change. Considering its long
record of prudent and skillful balance-of-payments and external debt
management, there is every reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and
implement the necessary reforms and, thus, will continue to remain credit-
worthy for future Bank lending.
PART II - BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
20.       Since 1962 Tunisia has received forty-six Bank loans and eleven
IDA credits amounting respectively to $891.8 million and $70.1 million
(net of cancellations) of which sixteen loans and nine credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of July 31, 1981, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satis-
factory. In a number of sectors, important institutional improvements have
been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to
ensure the efficient management of the related sectors or subsectors.



-8-
21.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Govern-
ment efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced
growth and distribution of income among regions and income groups with
particular emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies
and investments; and (d) provide selective support for the development of
basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public services.
An important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian author-
ities in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through
missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Coopera-
tive Program (FAO/CP) and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facil-
ity (PPF). The Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to
increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing
for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view
of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
22.       Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, educa-
tion, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and
public transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commit-
ments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism
infrastructure has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 14 per-
cent of total commitments.
23.       In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its
efforts in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and
social development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional
integration and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between
urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment
creation and institution building. In addition to the proposed grain
distribution and storage project, the lending program includes projects in
various stages of processing in the agricultural sector, in industry, high-
ways, urban development and education.
24.       The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macro-economic and sector base for our lending program;
it will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues
and policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country including appropriate interest
rate policies (paras. 12-14). Two major reports in 1980 on the mechanical
and electrical industries and on the social aspects of development provided
a better knowledge of the country's industrial development base and pros-
pects in these sub-sectors, and a better understanding of income dis-
parities by evaluating the Government's social policies aimed at poverty
alleviation. Future reports will include a review of pricing and subsidy
policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986), and of the
agricultural, education and training, urban and energy sectors.



-9-
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private
sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was
Il percent. The Bank's and IDA's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt by 1986 is expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and their share in
the debt service would increase to about 16 percent.
26.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), BDET (a
Tunisian development finance company), in Compagnie Financiere et Touris-
tique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in tourism projects), in
Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel development), in Indus-
tries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium fluoride from local
fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development
project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12.5 million, as of July
31, 1981.
PART III - THE GRAIN SUB-SECTOR
27.      Background.  Cereals are the basic staple of the Tunisian popula-
tion's diet. Over two-thirds of consumption is represented by local and
imported grain which is processed in industrial mills after entering the
official marketing system controlled by the Office of Cereals (OC) (para
35). The remaining quantity is estimated to be about equally divided
between consumption on-farm and sales in village marketplaces for home
grinding. Prior to the mid-sixties, Tunisia was an intermittent exporter
of durum wheat but since then there have been no significant exports.
28.      Demand.  Human consumption of industrially milled wheat increased
more than twice as fast as population during 1975-80 reflecting price
policy and changing tastes of Tunisian consumers and is projected to reach
an estimated 1.24 million tons (from 0.95 million tons in 1980), or nearly
80 percent of total wheat consumption in 1986. Regarding animal consump-
tion, concentrates are progressively supplanting on-farm barley as feed for
both ruminants and poultry thanks mainly to highly subsidized prices and
successful extension demonstrations of feed lot operations. Demand for
feed concentrates is projected to rise from 0.31 million tons of grain raw
material (excluding soybean pellets) in 1980 up to a level of 0.46 million
tons in 1986. The total consumption of industrially milled grain (concen-
trates plus wheat) processed through the official storage system is thus
projected to rise to about 1.7 million tons in 1986.
29.      Supply.  (a) Production:  Weather is the predominant factor in
grain production, which has recently varied from a low of about 0.74 mil-



- 10 -
lion tons in 1977 to a peak of 1.25 million tons in 1975 (1.17 million tons
in 1980). On the assumption of average weather, no significant change in
acreage, and an increase in average yields of about 10 percent over the
late 1970s, overall grain production is projected to reach about 1.20
million tons by 1986, or about 20 percent over the average for the 1970s;
(b) Collection: During the 1970s, the collection of grain fluctuated
significantly from year to year roughly with the level of production,
averaging about 0.34 million tons (about 34 percent of the harvest). Durum
wheat is usually about 65 percent of the collection, bread wheat about 20
percent and barley 15 percent. OC handles about 60 percent of the official
collection of domestic production, contracting out the remaining 40 percent
to two grain producer cooperatives, CCCC (Central Cooperative for Basic
Crops) and COCEBLE (Central Wheat Cooperative). It is expected that the
grain which is presently traded outside the official market will be pro-
gressively marketed through the official collection system, which is
expected to absorb a 40 percent share of domestic production (or about 0.48
million tons) in 1986.
30.       Imports.  The result of Tunisia's rapidly rising demand for
industrially milled grain and stagnant domestic production has been a
growing gap in the national grain supply. It is expected that imports of
bread wheat, durum wheat, barley and corn, which increased from an average
of 0.33 million tons in 1971-75 to nearly 1.1 million tons in 1980, will
fill the gap in supply, with average imports of about 1.23 million tons
foreseen for 1986.
31.      Distribution.  OC grain is distributed in two circuits.  Domestic
purchases in the northern part of the country enter local collection cen-
ters. Most of the grain is then transported by rail in bags to storage
silos around Tunis and from there by truck in bags and in bulk to nearby
mills. About 15 percent of the collection is carried from collection cen-
ters to Tunis silos by truck, much of it in bulk. Another 15 percent is
shipped from collection centers in the Le Kef region by train in bags to
the cities in central and southern Tunisia. Imported grain enters through
the five main ports, with about 60 percent through the La Goulette (Tunis)
bulk silo and the rest in bags at merchandise quays at Bizerte, Sousse,
Sfax and the new port of Ghannouch just outside Gabes. About three-fourths
of imports are transported by truck, mainly to local mills around the five
port cities; one-fourth of the imports move by rail, mainly from Bizerte
and La Goulette to the Tunis storage silos and from La Goulette to the
southern cities.
32.      The import circuit poses urgent problems.  The La Goulette silo,
the only functioning port silo in Tunisia, financed under the Second Port
project (para. 42), is currently working at an annual turn-over rate of 20
(the norm is 10 to 12) at the cost of almost continuous ship occupancy of
the grain quay, long ship waiting periods in the harbor, and high demurrage
charges. At the other ports, the costs of congestion include not only
demurrage, but also heavy fees for open-air storage of grain in bags on the
quays as well as the high labor and bag costs of bag filling, weighing and
handling operations. Problems include a shortage of port silo capacity;
inadequate storage silo capacity outside the Tunis region; inadequate
throughput capacity and poor condition of existing storage silos; insuf-
ficient bulk rail. cars; insufficient bulk reception and storage capacity at



- il -
mills; and inadequacies in silo maintenance, grain inventory control,
transport scheduling, rail car handling, and coordination of investment
planning. Most of these issues are also found in the domestie collection
circuit, although grain volumes are smaller and the cost penalties of
inadequate storage and handling capacities are less than in the import
circuit. OC's two-stage approach to dealing with Tunisia's grain storage
problems (addressing the needs of the collection circuit through a second
project) reflects the priority attention given to the import circuit and
takes into account the need for further institutional as well as investment
analysis to ensure an efficient modernization of the present system of 150
collection centers.
33.      Location of New Port and Storage Silos.  It is estimated that the
regional deficits (i.e., the import requirement) in mill grain supply in
1986 would be on average 0.82 million tons in the northern part of the
country, 0.18 million tons in the center and 0.22 million tons in the south
for an average harvest year. Given these projections, an analysis of
comparative costs for transport (rail and road) and related transit hand-
ling costs at storage silos as well as physical limitations (such as the
already heavy traffic at La Goulette port which would hamper any expansion
of its existing silo, and major unresolved problems of urban planning at
Sfax) confirms the comparative advantage of the construction of a new
30,000-ton port silo at Ghannouch (near Gabes), the rehabilitation, equip-
ping for imports and expansion of the Bizerte silo fram 20,000 tons to
30,000 tons, and the construction of three storage silos at Beja, Sfax and
Gafsa, and the expansion of the storage silo at Kalaa Seghira (near Sousse)
from 8,000 tons to 28,000 tons. The location of these storage silos (which
are expected to receive both domestic and imported grains), takes into
account the exis- ting and projected availability at mills of bulk
receiving and storage capacity as well as the location of mills and the
volume of grain to be handled in each region. Bulk shipments direct to the
mills and to the four new storage silos are expected to account for about
75 percent of the total national imports foreseen in 1986. The remaining
amount, coming through Bizerte and La Goulette ports, added to collections,
would be handled in existing Tunis area silos, one of which, the Manouba
silo, would be rehabilitated through the proposed project.
34.      Transport of Grain from Port Silos.  A large proportion of the
grain imported through the port silos at Ghannouch and Bizerte is expected
to be shipped onward by "programmed trains" to mills and storage silos.
These trains would consist of bulk cars and would be used exclusively for
grain traffic on shuttle runs programmed on a priority basis to maximize
their cost effectiveness. Two trains with a total capacity of about
250,000 tons per year would shuttle from Ghannouch to Sfax and Kalaa
Seghira. The average cost per ton of grain transported by these trains
(plus the average cost of storage silo handling and re-shipment by truck to
mills) is estimated to be about 60 percent of the average cost per ton for
shipment direct from Ghannouch to Sfax and Sousse mills by bulk trucks.
About 281,000 tons per year of grain - 127,000 tons by bulk trucks and
154,000 tons by programmed train to the Manouba silo for trans-shipment to
the Tunis mills by bulk truck - would be shipped from the Bizerte port silo



- 12 -
to Tunis area mils.  Cost per ton of the two modes is roughly equal.  The
mixed-mode solution would provide flexibility and security in the vital and
congested Tunis area.   During negotiations assurances were obtained that
OC would ensure that grain that is in excess of the capacity of the pro-
grammed trains would be transported in an efficient way (Project Agreement,
Section 3.01(c)(iv)).
35.      The Office of Cereals.  OC - a public sector industrial and com-
mercial enterprise, endowed with financial autonomy under the authority of
the Ministers of Agriculture and of Planning and Finance - is the Govern-
ment's national agency for grain marketing.  Its main responsibilities are
to buy, store, distribute and sell local and imported grain; administer the
Government's price control system for grains and make recommendations for
changes in grain prices and profit margins for milling; and supply
technical assistance, seeds, fertilizers and other inputs to grain pro-
ducers. OC's Board of Directors is composed of representatives of the
Ministries of Agriculture, Planning and Finance, the National Bank of
Tunisia (BNT), the two wheat cooperatives CCGC and COCEBLE, the milling
industry and the farming community.  It is headed by a President Director
General (PDG) and is organized into four main divisions (administrative,
technical, financial, and marketing). The administrative division includes
a "construction service" (reporting directly to the PDG and his deputy),
which heretofore has been in charge of design and contracting for the con-
struction of new silos and management of relations with OC's engineering
consultants. Through a recent reorganization, a Project Management Unit
(PMU) has been established which has taken over these functions (para.
53). As of September 30, 1979, OC's assets and liabilities were about $400
million, about 10 percent of which was equity, 70 percent interest-free
short-term Treasury loans for working capital, and 20 percent short-term
credit from banks, suppliers, and other sources. Noticeably absent were
medium- and long-term debt, a reflection of OC's low level of investment
activity (new or replacement) prior to the proposed project. in addition
to Treasury outlays, which cover most of OC's working capital needs includ-
ing purchases of grain from farmers, loans to farmers, and operating ex-
penses at collection centers, OC has two other major sources of funds:
sales of grain to industrial mills and reimbursements from the Price
Equalization Fund (CGC), a Government agency which finances the support
element of the subsidized prices at which OC sells grain to the mills. CGC
obtains these funds from revenues from excise taxes on gasoline, alcohol
and other commodities.
36.      OC is relatively autonomous in its operations which allows it to
act with flexibility in commercial transactions and in control and dis-
tribution of grain stocks. However, certain organizational, managerial and
financial deficiencies adversely affect OC's operations, and need to be
corrected to ensure cost-effective operations in the future, especially as
more and more grain is handled in bulk. These problems include poor stock
control and divided responsibility for domestic and foreign grain purchases
(which results in inefficient silo utilization and transport management),
low maintenance budgets and inadequately trained silo managers.



-13 -
37.      Although legally endowed with financial autonomy, OC in practice
operates within a complex governmental system of controlled prices, mar-
gins, rebates, losses and subsidies (para. 39) that affect grain and grain
product prices at each stage of grain handling and processing. Although
law and regulation provide that CGC should compensate OC for the costs of
its grain operations to the extent they are not covered by OC's official
grain selling price established by the Government, OC in recent years has
been only partially reimbursed for these expenditures due to CGC's own
budgetary deficits. This has adversely affected OC's financial planning
and cash flow management and thereby the funds available for silo main-
tenance. In addition, price controls for grain and guaranteed profit mar-
gins for the mills and bakeries have necessitated the creation in OC of a
complex accounting system for records of financial relations with these
private sector organizations, diverting both OC and these entities from
controlling and monitoring actual costs of grain storage, handling and
transportation.
38.      OC has recently initiated efforts to improve its financial accoun-
ting practices and its control of stocks. In 1978, OC began to prepare
balance sheets and annual operating statements which were audited by a
semi-private Tunisian accounting firm in January 1981. This group has also
been asked to evaluate OC's accounting and control system, set up new book-
keeping procedures, and assist OC in preparing a budget for 1981/82. The
work is expected to be completed by October 1981. Also, on the basis of a
study made by another Tunisian consulting firm, OC has taken preliminary
steps to implement a new system for the reporting and coding of inventory
data and has budgeted for the acquisition of computer facilities. Given
the complexities involved in OC's financial situation, the proposed project
would provide for a cost-control and financing study and the subsequent
implementation by OC and the Government of a program of improvement (para.
51). The Government has recognized the problems caused by arrears and this
year made special budgetary provisions allowing CGC to pay OC all past due
amounts. In addition, during negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the Government would cause CGC to transfer to OC within three months after
the due dates all amounts owed by CGC to OC on account of payments made by
OC for supporting the prices of grain and grain derivatives; failing the
availability of adequate resources in CGC, the Government would promptly
make such payments in the form of advances out of its treasury resources,
to be recorded in the "price support" account of OC (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05).
39.      Prices and Subsidies for Grain and Grain Products.  Producer
prices and retail prices for wheat and wheat-based products are maintained
by the Government approximately in line with world market prices. However,
these price levels are achieved at the farm gate partly as a result of
heavily subsidized inputs. At the retail lèvel, prices of flour, semolina
and bread are set at levels 35-40 percent below actual costs as a result of
subsidies applied to reduce the intermediary expenditures on costs of
transport, storage, milling, and baking. Meat production is stimulated



- 14 -
through subsidized imports of animal feed. The consequences of these
policies include fiscal burdens on the Government, administrative burdens
on OC, disincentives to improved efficiency in the intermediary organiza-
tions, and the development of a beef-fattening industry that is expensive
in terms of domestic resources and foreign exchange and that neglects
Tunisia's comparative advantage in extensive grazing and forage crops. The
difficulties inherent in these pricing policies, particularly as regard
animal feed grains, are recognized by the Tunisian authorities who have
recently implemented a substantial increase in the price of bran and intend
to review the pricing policies of the remaining animal feed grains during
the Sixth Plan. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would (a) transmit to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1982, for
exchange of views the strategy established for the period of the Sixth Plan
(1982-86) in regard to the livestock subsector, and (b) take all appro-
priate measures to eliminate in progressive steps price subsidies for
animal feed grain, according to a timetable to be agreed upon by the
Government and the Bank no later than December 31, 1982 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
Previous Bank Involvement in the Agricultural and Transport Sectors
4k0.     Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and
to date, ten projects have been approved for a total of $192.9 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include three irrigation projects (Irrigation
Rehabilitation in the Lower Medjerda and Nebhana Valleys - Loan 1068 of
$12.2 million; the Sidi Salem Multipurpose project - Loan 1431 of $42
million; and the Southern Irrigation project - Loan 1796 of $25 million),
two fisheries projects (Credit 270 of $2 million, and Loan 1746 of $28.5
million), a Cooperative Farm project (Loan 484/Credit 99 of $18 million),
three agricultural credit projects (Loan 779/Credit 263 of $8 million, and
Loans 1340 of $12 million, and 1885 of $30 million), and one rainfed
project (Northwest Rural Development Project - Loan 1997 of $24 million).
41.      Performance of these projects has been mixed.  Implementation of
the irrigation projects has been the most satisfactory. The First
Fisheries project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay
and the local institution lending for boats (BNT) experienced low loan
recoveries. The problems were addressed under the Second Fisheries project
after agreement was reached on a strategy for improving recoveries. The
Cooperative Farm project, which was designed to develop production
cooperatives as part of a 10-year national program of agrarian reform was
delayed by technical, managerial, and financial problems, and then, follow-
ing the Government's abandonment of production cooperatives, was revised in
1970, and an amount of $8.8 million cancelled. At completion in 1973, most
of the project objectives, namely, improved productivity, production,
worker incomes, and institutional viability, were attained (Project
Performance Audit Report - PPAR - No. 968, January 8, 1976). The First
Agricultural Credit project financed BNT lending for farm machinery, dairy
development, date palm plantations, and dairy processing, but was not fully
disbursed until 34 months after the original closing date because BNT lent



- 15 -
Bank group funds at a higher interest rate than Government funds; although
the project achieved a good rate of return, livestock development did not
yield the benefits expected, and dairy processing suffered major cost over-
runs (PPAR No. 2497, May 11, 1979). These problems were corrected under
the Second Agricultural Credit project, where uniformity of BNT lending
terms was introduced.
42.      In the transport sector, the First and Second Highway projects
(Loans 746 of $24 million and 1188 of $17 million), and the First Railway
project (Loan 606/Credit 150 of $17 million) focused on modernization and
rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads, and renewal of track and
purchase of railway equipment. Although execution of the First Highway
project was satisfactory, only about half the roads were rehabilitated due
to cost increases (PPAR No. 2772, December 26, 1979). The First Railway
project was completed successfuly (PPAR No. 2109, June 23, 1978). Imple-
mentation of the Second Highway project is behind schedule due to problems
of property acquisition and local financing, but the Government has recent-
ly developed a satisfactory financing and execution plan for the balance of
the project. Two loans in the port sub-sector (Loans 380 of $7 million,
and 573 of $8.5 million) provided support facilities for port operations,
mainly dredging, maintenance operations and cargo handling equipment. The
Second Port project included the construction of the 30,000-ton bulk port
silo at La Goulette. Both these projects were implemented successfuly and
had an important institution-building effect (PPAR No. 1049, February 26,
1979). A Third Highway project (Loan 1601 of $32 million) initiated an
integrated program for improving about 1,000 kms of rural roads, with
direct benefits for the agriculture sector. Implementation of
complementary agricultural investments and extension services lagged
initially but is now proceeding satisfactorily. A Third Port project (Loan
1797 of $42.5 million) is assisting the Government in modernizing berth
facilities at the ports of La Goulette and Sfax and in providing support
facilities for improved port operations. A Fourth Highway project (Loan
1841 of $36.5 million) is helping the Government in improving highway
planning, maintenance, rehabilitation and safety.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.      The project was identified in May 1978 and prepared by OC with the
assistance of consultants and FAO/CP. Appraisal took place in February
1981. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in August 1981. The
Tunisian Delegation was led by Mr. El Adab, President Director General of
OC. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3503-TUN dated September 1, 1981) has
been distributed separately. The main features of the project are
summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map showing
the location of the project components is also attached.



- 16 -
Project Objectives and Description
44.      In line with the overall Government endeavor to improve the system
of grain importing, storage and distribution in Tunisia, the main objec-
tives of the proposed project are to reduce the congestion, freight and
demurrage charges, handling costs and grain losses incurred at the five
main ports (paras. 31 and 32) as well as the cost of domestic transport and
handling of imported grain through rehabilitation and construction of grain
silos, purchase of equipment, and better management of the storage and
distribution systems.
45.      The project components would include the following:
(a) rehabilitation, adaptation for imports, and expansion from 20,000
to 30,000-ton storage capacity of the port silo at Bizerte and
construction of a 30,000-ton port silo at Ghannouch (near Gabes);
(b) construction of three storage silos at Beja, Gafsa (10,000-ton
storage capacity each), and Sfax (20,000-ton storage capacity),
and expansion of the capacity of the storage silo at Kalaa Seghira
from 8,000 tons to 28,000 tons; and rehabilitation of an existing
50,000-ton storage silo at Manouba (Tunis);
(c) rehabilit-ation (at Bizerte, Manouba and Kalaa Seghira) and con-
struction (at Ghannouch, Beja, Sfax and Gafsa) of silo rail sid-
ings that will permit rapid loading and unloading of programmed
trains;
(d) acquisition of about 50 bulk grain rail hopper cars for use in
three programmed trains to transport imported grain from Bizerte
and Ghannouch to storage silos and mills; and
(e) provision of 66 man-months of consulting services to assist OC in
improving operations, carrying out a study of its financial system
and a second one for the preparation of a second-stage grain stor-
age project, and organizing training programs (including 40 man-
months of training abroad).
Cost Estimates and Financing
46.      The estimated cost of the project is $93.9 million of which $42.1
million is in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies are about 15 per-
cent of base costs which is adequate since the unit costs are based on
estimates obtained in February-March 1981 from local and foreign suppliers
of equipment and civil works. Price contingencies have been estimated at
about 20 percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies on the basis
of average yearly price increases of 6.2 percent and 7.4 percent for the
local and foreign components respectively. The cost of foreign technical
assistance is estimated at $8,700 per month (fees and per diem).



- 17 -
47.      The proposed Bank loan of $42 million would cover about 100 per-
cent of the foreign exchange cost and about 45 percent of total project
cost. The loan would be made to the Government (which would bear the
foreign exchange risk) and onlent to OC through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to the Government. The
balance of the project cost would be financed through Government's grant
transfers to OC. OC would make available to the Port Auithority (OPNT) and
the Railways Authority (SNCFT) part of the proceeds of the loan and other
funds required for carrying out the port and railway components of the
project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement,
Section 2.01(d)).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.      Contracts for construction and rehabilitation of silos would be
awarded after ICB which would be carried out by OC in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The silos would be grouped in three
separate contracts for (i) the three northern silos of Bizerte, Manouba,
and Beja; (ii) the three center-south storage silos of Kalaa Seghira, Sfax,
and Gafsa; and (iii) the new port silo at Ghannouch. The bid documents
would provide for single-responsibility contracts for construction of civil
works, supply and installation of equipment, start-up testing, and training
of local staff in operation and maintenance of the silos. Miscellaneous
equipment and supplies not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 and up to
an aggregate amount of $500,000, would be procured by OC according to local
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. The construction/
rehabilitation of silo rail sidings and the purchase of about 50 rail
hopper cars would be carried out by SNCFT on behalf of OC under a
contractual agreement and using ICB procedures. Local competitive bidding
would be allowed for civil works and earth moving contracts costing less
than $0.5 million. Works related to the platform preparation and the
laying of tracks for side rail sidings would be done by SNCFT on force
account. OC would also enter into a contractual agreement with OPNT for
the provision of three dolphins and dredging works at the Bizerte silo quay
using local competitive bidding procedures.
49.      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a period of about
five years. Up to $300,000 in retroactive financing for expenditures on
engineering consultants incurred since March 1, 1981, is recommended. The
Closing Date would be December 31, 1986.
Project Implementation
50.      Project Organization and Management.  Overall responsibility for
project implementation would be vested in OC which will be assisted by OPNT
and SNCFT. OC would be directly responsible for the construction and
rehabilitation of silos and the carrying out of the studies included under
the project (para. 51). OC and OPNT would make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank, for the carrying out by OPNT of the dredging works and the
provision of three dolphins at Bizerte, including procurement, supervision



- 18 -
and maintenance activities (Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)(i)). The
Ministry of Equipment would complete by December 31, 1982 the ongoing
construction of the silo quay at berth four at Ghannouch and, upon
completion, transfer ownership of the quay to OPNT (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02). OC would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with SNCFT for
the procurement, supervision, maintenance, and the operation by SNCFT of
all facilities and equipment included in the railway component of the pro-
ject; these would consist of construction and rehabilitation by SNCFT of
all silo rail sidings under the project, and the acquisition and operation
by SNCFT of about 50 bulk grain rail hopper cars, which would be owned by
OC, and would be used for bulk grain transport in programmed trains between
Bizerte and Manouba, Ghannouch and Sfax, and Ghannouch and Kalaa Seghira
(Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)(ii)). This agreement would also
provide for the integration of the bulk grain rail hopper cars currently
being used for bulk grain transport into the Ghannouch-Sfax programmed
train (Project Agreement, Section 3.01(c)(iii). OC would also inake
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with CCGC providing for OC
management of the rehabilitation of CCGC's Manouba silo and reimbursement
by CCGC, on appropriate terms and conditions, of expenditures incurred by
OC in this respect (Project Agreement, Section 2.01(e)(iv)). Conclusion of
the arrangements between OC, OPNT, SNCFT and CCGC would be conditions of
disbursement of funds allocated to the relevant components of the project
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b), 4(c) and 4(d)).
51.      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that OC would carry
out, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank: (a) a study of
OC's financial system and a plan of action on how to improve it, to be
completed by September 30, 1983 and submitted to the Bank for review and
comment prior to the Government's approval of the plan of action; the
Government and OC would then implement the said plan of action no later
than March 31, 1984 (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(b) and Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06); and (b) a feasibility study for a second-phase project which
would focus particularly on the storage and distribution of domestic grain,
this study to be transmitted to the relevant Government agencies and the
Bank for review and comments by June 30, 1983 (Project Agreement, Section
2.03(d)). To assist in the preparation of the studies, OC would hire
consultants (about 24 man-months for the first study and about 12
man-months for the second one) no later than April 30, 1982 on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (a)).
52.      Overall project coordination would be provided by a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), which includes representatives of the
Ministry of Planning and Finance (chairmanship), the Ministry of
Agriculture, OC, SNCFT and OPNT. The PCC would be responsible for review-
ing OC's work program linking the activities of the different project
agencies, monitoring progress, and resolving possible inter-agency con-
flicts. The PCC would meet at least every six months and remain in opera-
tion, with composition and functions satisfactory to the Bank, until the
completion of the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).



- 19 -
53.      Day-to-day management of silo construction and coordination with
other project agencies would be provided by a Project Management Unit (PMU)
established in OC and headed by a director reporting directly to OC's
President Director General (PDG) and his deputy. Under the project, PMU's
responsibilities would include the finalization of bid documents, bid
evaluation and award, erection and start-up, to be carried out primarily
through PMU's supervision of OC's engineering consultants. PMU would also
be responsible for the monitoring of training and studies included under
the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PMU
would: (i) be maintained in operation until all facilities included in the
project shall have become fully operational (Project Agreement, Section
2.01(e)(i)); and (ii) have at all times responsibilities and staffing
satisfactory to the Bank, including a director, a qualified technician in
residence at each of the seven silo sites for the supervision of works, and
other personnel in sufficient numbers (Project Agreement, Section
2.01(e)(ii) and (iii)).
54.      Operation of Silos, Management and Planning of Grain Distribution.
Organizational modifications would be introduced to help OC improve the
maintenance of silos, management of imports, control of grain stocks,
scheduling of transport and planning of investment. To improve investment
planning and facilitate the preparation of a second-stage storage project,
a planning and evaluation unit would be established in OC by March 31,
1982. To improve maintenance, a central silo maintenance service would be
established by December 31, 1982. A transport unit would also be created
by June 30, 1983, to improve transport scheduling, ensure effective
initiation and operation of programmed trains, establish transport
productivity targets, monitor and evaluate transport performance, and
undertake long term transport planning. To assist OC in carrying out the
above institutional improvements, 30 man-months of consulting services and
40 man-months of overseas training for OC's staff will be provided. All
three units would be established and operated under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(c)). During
negotiations, assurances were also obtained that by April 30, 1982, OC
would make suitable arrangements with CCGC and COCEBLE for their
participation in the new maintenance service and stock control systems and
the provision of training programs to their staff (Project Agreement,
Section 2.03(f)).
55.      Monitoring, Evaluation and Audit.  PMU would carry out the
monitoring of the project. This unit, with the assistance of the consul-
tant engineers, would also prepare a quarterly report on the progress of
procurement and construction of silos and obtain quarterly reports prepared
by (i) OPNT on Bizerte quay construction and dredging, and on Gabes berth
four quay construction; (ii) SNCFT on construction of sidings and
procurement of bulk grain rail cars; and (iii) the responsible units of OC
on staffing, technical assistance, studies and training. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that OC would prepare (with the
assistance of OPNT and SNCFT as applicable) these quarterly reports and



- 20 -
submit them to the Bank and PCC (Project Agreement, Section 2.06 (d)(i)).
The planning and evaluation unit would be responsible for project
evaluation. Assurances were obtained that this unit would furnish to the
Bank no later than June 30, 1984, an interim evaluation report and upon
completion of the project a completion report (Project Agreement, Section
2.06(d)(ii) and (e)).
56.      OC's accounts are currently audited by an independent semi-private
auditing firm which is acceptable to the Bank (para. 38). Assurances were
obtained that OC would continue to have its accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and would furnish them to the Bank together
with the audit report by December 31, 1981 for the fiscal year ending on
September 30, 1980, by July 31, 1982 for the fiscal year ending on Sep-
tember 30, 1981, and thereafter within ten months from the end of each
fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section 4.02). Assurances were also
obtained that OC would maintain a separate account in respect of the
project (Project Agreement, Section 4.01 (b)).
Environmental Impact
57.      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental effect. Silo design would provide for satisfactory cleaning
of stored grain, which should result in an improvment in the average
quality of grain delivered to flour and animal feed mills. Silo design
would also provide for satisfactory dust and humidity control, which,
together with technical assistance in silo management and maintenance,
would reduce to a minimum the risk of silo explosions.
Benefits and Risks
58.      The main project benefits are improved efficiency of the grain
distribution and storage system and a greater capability for the system to
deal with a potential crisis in grain supply. More specifically, the pro-
ject would generate a series of benefits in the form of cost savings as
compared with the grain storage and distribution system which would pre-
vail in the absence of the project. The savings induced by the project
would accrue first to OC and then the Government, making it possible to
reduce the operating deficit of OC as well as CGC's subsidy transfers to
finance that deficit.
59.      The major cost savings are estimated to amount to about $16
million per year beginning in 1987. The project would permit OC to import
grain in bigger ships, compared with the current average size of 15,800
tons, allowing annual freight savings of about $4.54 million. With the
project, the elimination of bagging and the improvement of ship scheduling
resulting from the increased port silo capacity and technical assistance
are expected to reduce demurrage to nominal levels, allowing annual savings
of about $4.41 million. Total annual savings from conversion of grain
handling to bulk is expected to be about $4.82 million. Moreover, by the
construction of bulk port silos, the project would eliminate storage of



- 21 -
bags of imported grain on the quays, representing at present a cost to OC
of about $1.58 million per year. Also, improved bulk grain handling would
lead to savings in jute bags (about $710,000 annually), most of which are
imported. The project would also avoid costs estimated at $250,000
recurring every 6 years for mobile bulk unloading equipment and $I.0
million every 8 years for trucks as well as nominal annual operating and
maintenance costs. The introduction of programmed bulk trains would avoid
periodic purchases of replacement box cars by SNCFT, allowing savings
totalling about $8.8 million over the life of the project.
60.      Other related non-quantifiable benefits would include better con-
trol by OC over the timing of purchase of imported grain due to expansion
of port facilities and storage capacity; reduced congestion in the ports
which would provide relief to non-grain traffic, reduce operating costs and
possibly permit postponement of other port investments; improved use of
silo capacity and reduction in losses due to better stock control and silo
management; elimination of the use of rail wagons for storage of imported
grain; reduction in the length of time involved in grain distribution
between ports and mills through more efficient handling of imported grain;
and the possibility of increased amounts of domestic grain to be shipped
and handled in bulk at lower cost. The technical assistance and training
included in the project are expected to minimize risks of poor management
of handling, storage and transportation facilities, which might affect
benefits.
61.      The major civil works investments associated with the project
would create construction and administrative jobs at the ports and at the
silo locations. Although the introduction of bulk handling would lead to
the elimination of jobs for piece workers who presently fill, weigh and
carry bags of grain, this would be partially offset by the creation of jobs
for skilled workers, technicians and engineers to maintain and repair the
new equipment. Moreover, it is expected that the social cost of reducing
employment in this sector would be offset by the advantages of increasing
labor productivity, foreign exchange savings, and assuring greater food
security.
62.      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 16 per-
cent on the basis of expected import levels for 1986. The economic
analysis is most sensitive to the import forecast, since the return on pro-
ject investments depends directly on the volume of grain handled. It is
expected that import levels would continue to fluctuate, reflecting changes
in Tunisia's weather conditions and harvest output. While such fluctua-
tions would affect the capacity utilization of project facilities in any
given year, they would tend to be mutually offsetting over a longer period.



- 22 -
Part V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Bank, OC, OPNT and SNCFT, and
the Report of the Committee provided in the Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Execu-
tive Directors.
64.      Special features of the draft Loan Agreement and the draft Project
Agreement are referred to in the appropriate paragraphs of the report and
in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of disbursement are that
funds for financing (i) the rehabilitation of the Manouba storage silo;
(ii) construction of port works at Bizerte; and (iii) the rail siding and
hopper car component of the project shall not be disbursed until agreements
satisfactory to the Bank have been concluded between OC and CCGC, OC and
OPNT, and OC and SNCFT (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b),
(c) and (d);.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Part VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 16, 1981
Washington D.C.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1  of  E
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER.ES
LANO ARLA (IROUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - nOST RECENT ESTIMATE) _ 
TOTAL.            16.4.0                                                         KIDOLE INCWIE
AGRICULTURAL       76.7                                   MOsT RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCLINE
1960  /b    1970 fL ESTIHATE /b            MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PLER CAPITA (US1)                   220.0        370.0    1120.0                  865.5                    1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       173.4        304.2      618.1                  758.3                    1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAK (THOUSANDS)  4221.0         5127.0    6194.0
UKBANA  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0         43.5       50.9                   45.2                      64,2
POPULATIUN PROJECTlONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           9.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULAIION 1S REACHED                     2070
POPULATION DENSIY
PER SQ. KM.                         25.7         31.3       37.8                   36.3                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       55.0         67.0       78.7                  442.7                      94.5
POPULAIION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           43.4         46.2       41.9                   44.2                      40.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         50.0       54.5                   52.4                      55.3
65 YRS. AND A"OVE                     4.1          3.8        3.6                    3.4                       4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                                 1.8s        1.9Lc      2.1                    2.7                       2.4
URBAN                                 3.2          3.8       3.8                    4.6                       3.7
CRUDE BlRIT  RATE (PER TIOUSAND)      46.6          38.4      31.0                   41.5                      31.4
CRUDE DEATI RATE (PER THOUSAND)        18.9         13.8      10.7                   12.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRDDUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.2        2.2                   2.9                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACELPIURS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)          ..        29.2      180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIFD WOYEN)    ..            10.0      21.3
FO00 ANh) NUTRITION
INLEX OF F000 PRODUCTION
PER CAP1TA (1969-71-100)            97.0         96.0      112.0                   96.3                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOQUIEMENTS)                     80.0         88.0      112.0                  110.4                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRNMS PER OAï)            50.0         57.0       73.0                   73.4                      65.8
UF WHICH AINMAL ANI) PULSE        12.0         14.0       22.0                   17.1                      34.0
CH1LD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        28.0         18.4      12.5                   14.9                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 81RTH (YEARS)    47.6           54.0       58.4                   55.9                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                       148.0jd      135.0       90.0                     *-                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAEE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-        49.0       70.0                   59.4                      65.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                   83.9                      79.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                   40.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                  ..         62.0        ..                     ..                      59.9
URBAN                                 ..        100.0         ..                     ..                      75.1
RURAL                                  *-        34.0       60.0                     ..                      30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10026.1       5934.0    3576.2                  4174.5                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       727.5    1167.8                  1780.5                    1288.2
POPULATION FER HOSPITAL BE)
TOTAL                              373.01s      409.1      427.2                  647.4                     471.2
URBAN                                  ..       290.2      341.4                  547.2                     558.0
RURAL                                  ..      1269.3    1273.1                  3361.1
ADMISSlONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        24.1         ..                   25.3
HuUbING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                 ..           5.1 /f    6.0
URBAN                                 ..          5.1 /f    5.8
RURAL                                  ..          5.1 /f    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER 0F PERSONS FER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          3.2 /f
URNAN                                  ..          2.7 Lf
RURAL                   .              ..          3.6 /f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENI
0F DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                  ..         24.0 Lf
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2  of  6
TUNISIA - SQCIAL INDICATORS DATA SEEET
TtJNIS A                        REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE .AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
hIDDLE INCOME
HOST RECENT          NORTEI AFRICA &         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0       100.0     100.0                 85.1                    101.7
MALE                 88.0       121.0     116.0                101.5                    103.0
FEMALE               43.0        80.0      83.0                 67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        23.0      30.0                 38.0                     35.3
HALE                 19.0        33.0      38.0                 48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                5.0        13.0      22.0                 28.3                    35.6
lOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY) 24.0         11.0      35.0                 11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.0        47.0      39.0                 34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                         16.0        28.0      30.0                 23.8                     15.7
AWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5        24.0/f   62.0                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER TROUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        13.0      18.3                 18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.3        75.7     147.3                121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         9.9      36.2                 37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST>) CIRCULATION FER
TNOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0        16.0      40.4                 35.9                     62.8
CINEKA ANNUAL AMNDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0            ..       1.5                  3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LWBOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1137.9      1214.8    1581.7
FEnALE (PERCENT)                   6.0         7.7       8.2                 10.5                     22.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.0        49.8      35.0                 43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        21.0      32.0                 27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0        23.7      25.5                 26.4                     31.8
MALE                                50.2        44.2      46.1                 47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                               3.3         3.6       4.3                  5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8         2.1       1.8                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      17.0
'ICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    ..          ..      42.0
LONEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS     ..          ..       6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS FER CAPITA)
UR8AN                               ..          ..    204.0                 271.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      97.0                144.6                    187.6
ESTIEATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    193.0                 400.8                    513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     193.0                290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ,.          ..      20.0                 22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      15.0                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic neans.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and la not unifora.
/b   Unlesa othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lover than rate of natural inerease; /d 1960-65 average;
/e 1962. /f 1966.
May, 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX I
DEIIIN    FSOCIAL INDtICATOti                                                       Page    3 of    6
Noces:  Aithoogh thI dace are dett  Item  soresgnrally jodged lie e-t uo ritusr   c   ei"l,o"ooeasYeyot   ht  iotpto   eItr
euvii..ttiiy cosPstebis isceta et th. ilcie et stssduedteed dttiten    et   conept  tedb.                 otstceeta   eclseie                    tdt     o  duetee,
ehles,os lc te desortit ordres et sugsitsd, isdintet teeeds, sod etureit   ataie oujotdtescshsotcoeos
Tht teitrece  troues are lEtttrec nygep et ses tub jet cecetryte   (2)                             ..euery gseup  Jtithtot         gh-gscrreeit-sethue  th-ceutt.t.  geour.
soie-cottifiiis. l   h   eeeo                       to  dutu th.  vrus  tre  ppotusien eeïgined tetlue.tti  reao  toc  -aoh  -ntao                  d thea-  oipy ehse
cId il e  coIrr,escc               netsheeareised it  eutt   tocata  te fo ..  idcater te another.  Thereer_               e   ot  ti  _uta i.l      cote__ing th. cuir  et
LANt tRiE  (th.,c...nd eq.k..)                                                                        Pe polentioe  ~ee -dot  e  toi                     - od    ce, d rorol -ttltc    tr
Tetu1 - Tenl  orer 1       e               lopretg  d trac ted ieleed  -t-ore                         -cu , d rorl  Oitdsd bo thi-e  -soeo   n er ci heitîtet hds
Aucirolorui -tetisut  et egiroitrl.  are  oue  enpetîî   or - ....se Ily                      te   ou    epolou    c                    -uegetu  u-d sptoIicedStto   -rure
tee  -p.ce, ptetoeos       . dmne kei lethet gud          t rn  li  feilot; 1918 date.              hahIIituoeetti   .        dopt_teo  eeotetoet   ero ey   sts
AN? Pti  uPITA (tI>  - GP par -opitaeelut  te  -t-tte  tur.e klpeSts,l                            "Il- Ot lcote   11 Irt oct  teidd.   oa    eants  loatoor, Inoda 1Isuti
roisttd hy te   eoor  o   oIchi as to-eld  tun   Atlas l1977-79ieil  1960,                             _d teit-ailotea-so_pettni    tffed hy    postnu   let hoy
1910,Itd 1919 deta.                                                                                   medi.l   tisut  oos,iwce   e. I h octt -oier t-cu                      _lee   oo
denter co,  prevodu a liileoo  rue cf nedi-ltuetir. Pr entet--
ENERiY CONStIOPTION 011ROhOIT   - A,tu  cropte   t  e.era.nrg.cl                                          tîu_    P.-eer  cein   ioe  ioeeloda tlOitpriec~ipul igete.al1 hescinit.I
ted ligeis.partot   atri  atcdhyr-,erîd uOga-see  at-                                                  o          hrrl  epiup loi   cerihep1coet   tdri1s-aetrs
tritytt) te kilogaamt et roIl eqitoaeI  er raptla; 155, 1910. ted 1919                               cene- Seliod                icep     Ir -eeaotoldttey oIl   nnl
trot hooprtols dildet hy-;  e  cobie  ci bedi.
POPULT,IONi ADO VIdi STAIISTICS
T.tai Popolaniet, bld-Sa(teses  - A. et Joly il 1910, 1970, ueO  1019                             hitiltl
data.                                                                                              Artruget Sienttet't-oRstaldf  brertett aer icasetel_if   - tota. lrur   eisrt 
ditteostedetitthot et  rtha  crtat-eu   sPee   e reuilis   ot .  dutc                         e  ehei rasia    cs   A cearder ertdgsrer  eer  tes ha ine ldtd  it
csengceere;191. 1910. ad 1919 dcta.                                                                 the  tsieiCrh          ttenelooes
Poeolctioo Pro) enions                                                                              Avaragatoie.r et              FItes  e  eco  -  ota, orias, ud rora1 - A-eeR.ee
Papotunieo le year 20t0- Cerreet pepolcties p                    Ijoin    rs h.asd on 1981          her et pertrat par sea. le cil ushan, uid naciecoid  o'es1
rotai  .pepelaion ho utc cd est and shiet  eoraaisy ted tertitïlnyr-tnet                          deelliege, repeetai.    eeieettidot-prate    creerstd
ing llltepcte         Iru hieti oron      ,te  mini ce-ery's Pst espîte  nee                   icteeA_t.e~ttttel en   fdriee   noaI.  bent. cnd rocsal
tera, e-    eci    I    epcue feelnIl,"ieteg1 te 11.1 y-ar -  Tht  -te-                           Ocoe-tteol dotîl legu oith e1.tlotttt   te2 iîtgqtrrts
eseare tee  tsiity rate aise hart tiret 1leei    enn  deelIos le                              citent.l  once, oed curai d-slliogs  eeps~tltrely.
ttetilisoa eedig  t  ises  is-el cd pes  tttity plniatit  efeme
sed fteoIlito  -redn tee peojeenten P.puepse.                                                  Adienssd tEetilnn   loties
trenear  receIlan et-e   .etetietr    eoenntiers  so il- renth i staOrmr tic  -nt    net td IteaLa   Gree ..r..., noaudftla
nh  ie hit  rots ie oqoa1 te tht dauth rata, ced oieoehscîesroet               lar-                 snoiatc  ul cgee un tir prinutp  lertI a   oesut   tr                       tt
mot Testt.lis Is trhiirad  -ly  ftat   -tsriliey easo  d-cîtet se                         pri_uri     h enta-uts pepolutte...;  -ersoty tettodss  hitId-ategsd t-il
tht eptaeonat irte   l e   nite     tIP nonrp tdunst  rar, mise .tar  geeaîe.ertI bus  djnnld fer diffsraet tregrhn ot praeay Od.tOtitI fer
et toterpilee  teat.t toueny.  oie statîoeury ?cpeîen1                  ir  te                        etrn   eni  oaera  cicute si               eteo -nY stcta   110 pe--
esiu   thae hosîs te ut  prejnntd chrtutaiec  tis pepalutien                                etne   an    ioî  er  halt  or ahere  th.  fticIsi etitt  sgt.
te nie yens 2100 , ad the rat  etdeaites et fartiîiry rusa ne replure-                            Ieedcvsheot - tene. suie cnd essuI   - Ospost dsst b-va;ssttedato
Tac- encietury e   pa1eiett    is r   hsId - Tht py-  ciao satioe..rp  pepeiesioe                     peenidot ge..Tesu,  erntiotat, orat_cher tetointitag            etinete  papti3
site  U hteet..eo.hnd.                                                                              .e.uIlly  f 12 te 17 y.... e  utt g.      t5o dates p    eorsae tes gaostliy
1teai  tt;It,  91  ted t909 deta.                                                                   itrlodt eerhiean, iadusntrat, as otite preguse. ehieb  Ptestas iadsed-
pst s.  t.   cato    -eulit  - Conpssad as ahoc  t- esgriro1ttes1 land                                setly or ut dsetresne t.  feoir   eesnea
osiy; 1960, 1070 ted 1900 dat-                                                                    Perii-ttera-t            imrr  ced  stdr-Tea   sadet  sero1itd le
PouainA t  ..ouatrs (ctetsmt   - ihIldtso  <I-il ysers>,  msie-se   l-                          ptinot       taissredrp,I lssi  dietid  p tnirst.  tt...t   ter inieh
10 yeaest,  -ed ertsd  (15 ysare and test   septs gse  eid-yret  P                                     ast.odtgiese
lstiot; 1060, 1970,td 19910dota.                                                                    Mets Iitearucyret  oec             i t.- t,iseadolte  (uhis ne rodotid teint)
Pooiatosleca  aun  Coateseel - senti   A. tale gresth saee at senti nid-                          uspsrr...rtgs et  -Il adot pepulasien  Sagd 10 ycate ted ores.
yese pepe~Istoeto11h,16-l  ted 1900-09.
Perlutt ieeh Rte Ceerret..       tha      Attui g-twh rtont  et otht  spep-                CONSUOtPTIOt
ftit   e   îo-i,tt-t   t   90-9.                                                        PettrCrs (parth nbose  tr isste   -P.....gst rats  -espets motte
Ceede tirai Potslest   h      ..cd  - Itel litr  bithei  tee eheotuod et nd-yes...                            tttsis n      ue sithe  peeos.eldtthesre.eresd
popalottos; 19Jt, î97t, ted 1919 deto.                                                              slistryv_hietts.
Ortie  tan  tas (etrheecad) - Ast... 1deutht pae thoosteda et eld-ytorRadie Oc-e-rer  (rer theoan  rouanes  -  .11 typesf  et .sati-r  tee rette
populaties; lOti, îlOt, td 191  d ate                                                         rj.. ladetetemoall  pehlie pet thoutat.  c f p.plso              tree   e
her norsu  ropredmair- parled if  hie sepeattla  pe....ts sgt-epstfi  fte-                    set  te  te etfect; dcta tee  -sets yere  -oy e.t htb           mpeht  nr
Itly rase; ..e.aIly  ieyt tf eagn sdteg is l9t0, t97t, td09.                                   tasn   teesis  ahieidh        testt
F     -ty  tein.- A..eYpnr,uet(sead)- Antue  tehb   ets ptoeT iaiee   er teet   eeslî-T   esvestehodusn
etiîrsh-oeaeld-o .. As    ..t td-r ..tpires et niri..situnîly pluaneig preStos.                    ganer1 peblir 1er nhoîcn  ppeanri  -ntoseetee                       TV  etre
Psly teiasIeee   pertea t fcretd mette   -.Plee-tag  et,                                        inees  s   eu îsad tn y,are shes regietretoe cf T Otetest   tes
comte et thid-hesriegcg   (154  yes>ttut   it-esstdraetatssos Ciroltte  Cees thoooend perutsieo>     Ohet  t'ht   sag   e
puhiiettîet deeosed prtiteipy te sstrtn             trol este   It la ..estid-ed
FOOD totD NUTRITION                                                                                     te be  deilyo  ifle itppeure as Isuet (te  tInte  ota.
Ondea et tot  Produoniespe  CatstO             71n.ili>  - tItus et paer ptasu -Pt    ...emlaa    . iua  Altetdute  epr Caprte  petY sa-la.et os -i toh.                      e fe
prdanc  e 1o fed   asudots   redetta  nluise .asd atu fsed asi                              tickets eald deereg nie y-a,  ntludingadtisetees. ta de              i-ntaac
te teesadu      -pe  'ice .  Oeeds            os   rts    ed    e . test..cot                       snd ethils otite.
tteteed ot sogue) -hi'hortdtibt td cetnuet ees ( .5. tftt  eed
steo ra  eelodsd).  Aggrtgutt peedation   elatuh ae-try il hstd taLUBOt PORCt
-tutn.o   cesog  peedoose peint stîieshl; lti-tS   iOtt  cad197  dss..                            Tota1.ll ha  Potes (nth .uu.sdt) -  aeoiecti  tetetecesivaeedt
Pess in  eoerio e  talent  Ceerent etsegIteneai>  _Compend tren                                     aese  tercetI         ..dasplayed het ...tedieg ht es    tedeont., te.~,
tee rgy   q          fvlsae  est loti eupplr   ila blcoisi  Se coostry per etFilu                 etttgpeptitien  et uit tgt. t97attelie   te vteotrentit  tee
ose dar.  Avail.lchscetsnntiedmei  seedortie. tmote l..e                                          _to  en.rtblhit  1960. 1970 ted 199 dcta.
repert, ced  icuegs te uerle.Net stpp ito   sid   teti- to-d, e-ade,                   Os-1i treerses>  - Pene1  laie  ots  u  tres                f et set  lahet fores.
qeet.ttieses   t  tedp           ..reaInt, ud lestes tn diene ibotte.   isqit-                 cstlusreee>- Lbe  tse  e                          inrtg, t-strsy, hosteg atd
nette otre  sttmsatdbh  PAO b...ed te phyttielgina1.. tde tes tern   ltes-                  tîshîtg os parasntsge  et.tess  laite f(osas; lOtO, 1o70 cd 1009 dete.
vtay tdheas   aodret.ietta   tassoe   eyniis   g lhdet     recet)-Laber teste tetinei.   cascte, m.n.a..ta
und tsdis.ehete  etP.ptet    ted tleitg ta pear.. tee- nette se                                  ted eeesteisiy. cette td get c  pfet                     et.tose  laite lests  196t,
ho..ehetId teet; 1961-65. 1970, sed t97O  dete.                                                   0070 ted 19179 dsto.
Pst esetia eeeel et teoteit (tecs est dty) - Prat Ie ceenta  et Pet te tis                                       'P'erto   asCtees      oa,ni.sd  ttcrtttane
ses sepplo a.  td pst da.stnpiet tot    '.d tedei,tscbv.-  ils-,                                  eetety tanteut  Merst   steti   ot,cd tstslit   essu
quiese      ..teeti   eteele  .tstbhlithd ho IOt1A peoride ft- minime                    pe tegte  tetal, tais set taule pepe.ist  et tii uges respa.ittocy;
aileecers 6e   l rets  e .t.1na  pest.Ie tee dty eed 2t gr-s  et tetec1 aod                       1960. 1970, ted 1979 d.tt.  Tisse Iaeb. h de te itl's  ptstiotpties rasas
pelea preesie, et  hteh  l' crame the id he s-et -         esin    Tisse enctd-                   ealtsnecg-s  staet   etshaertsm.  aed lengtnias tresd.  A
urdt ut  lest  thon  hots et75 geans el rettl peeceis snd 23 grues et                             tes  .tssleant. Iafrt ee  ntsieo s. er.   s
eti_ci protsie et Issest-ge  tee tht Ield,           eo      yFi ta ni  Thued                  Deeome Iepedea tutia  - Ratio et Ppeittirs uadar 15 cad 65  sd tees
Werld Ford S-ery; lt-O    00ad177  tan.h. i  telal Iuo_  test..
tePI   tsr,      tt   ttrttmtna   e  otite   - Pe tin  ..Plpy et teed ds-
rivs   tee  tesis_ _d    1.t. te  gest  pst dto  ltitO 1          07-5    90 osA l077.dete.  INsooa DISTRIBUTION
Chti tet  1-4) Ro lityo Rasa (p.. tlhtu...td) l-tstideatie per ehousstd te                         Peetetecan et trieuse Inet  (bithint lae   ed hied) - Raesivsd hy etitha
sg 4eop1cou  h.s    itld 1sn  itchie sgt gstop; ter nets develepiegeton-                     5 ers.rrsn20  ets.  es    20  ,a....te. ced pers-Alt  e0 r-st
sente dat. aernesdIrstfs  ala;900  100 d 1979 duos,                                                 et_et-his
OEALItt                                                                                             PVeRtsb  TARGET iiO1PS
Ltttttpctte e. tOlt(eus - A.rsrgt tenher et yeors  f litf  reminits                                oTes t-lst    stnttse ry eptremimee   netes   tptc   ltre1t,
ceI bltsh; lOtO, 1970  ed 1900 dccc                                                                  atd  hiold betoepene    iti cemiderehls atoie..
Infnt OrteeîteOco  re  shteeat-d)             -        hdgu  .deti     intfatnt.  odse e-t  y-e   EItttedAslsteestceeLrltOrreeec-e aetro i-
el og  pst thetectd  lc   h,thas                                                                   iheton  peeecyI  ..tatyt In-e  Lt-is  (USet  ters .itie   eic ban  md It l
Aortes t  CeEa Cser Cretsetet-roIcetutn-  2toa,s-u ud rosu1 - Nu-                                           -       n-t.    n-l-                                         1i'
"Ir et Ppsei. (ta"ul, arisa, ted  -erl  titihsctna.....              sb   ct                        atrtieuy  adeqetu  dite ple e..          eot...    sn-tt   drqu ntse  itmt
ee-seppl        ..,.dled, tr.tasd se-tgs   -utt  or enests ..d but orett tou                         i-tordahR..t.   - yI-                  el(Spatpi)                 rbn drul
cette  -h us tha.trot proneessd btreheles, spriegn,- cd stetct-y catis>  aslritgiercryicm    tsdt   e-ie    teeeeeeepe
ttttttte  aadocleee   ce   aete   21mnet                     ee      t     t  be-ler itch odjo.test for hige- rose et fiivteg et oIanb rec....
coenesit bthg met t                      eeeehcttif tht-htt.  inroe-    tt                        leet-tuad Peeoietoc estes Abelolte P veto Osaeta tershrts-l                    - rotit
eecsotnileteeestetl  impiy eht Pt.bu,st   rseir   t  h   oeeensd  _neI- P rcst atpepetane   (erie  sd roral) atcte    ieit
de son hee  ce sped e dtsplpsorrttonce   per   f th. dsy it fteshiig tht.or
ttelystte   tss.                             ;
pseeetesgss fthnistet     ppee pr tettiene.   mE.rtet  diapeet. s-y te-1ede
tht te1Isesta   end dispes..i, titi et etshou  tesuentes  tt htm ....eets
tt let-mote  bymas-et   ystame ortht eeg ot pie prrîsu.  etd siji                                                                     tEteetit t-d tSeli,~ Its Divisit
tettiatiet ese thrsietge  et                                                                                          be~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y 1981
ePstî qeetitpad trot cdiadedidtiby se unesefy lesl.ii9Pyi
Pee11.tiatto te   NerefoPrsn    ep-s             ditîdet by etne  et proatietet
taie sd Cem1l  geadeet  eses  t.retîcul e_rr... a.d...setesttos.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  6.4 million  (nid-1980)
GNP per Capita:   $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                      Annual Crowth Rates
(million US$                       Actual (at 1972 prices)             Actual/L          Projected  (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                                at current prices)
1980                       1976      1977     1978      1979        1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Cross domestic product /2                         8,493.8                       7.4      4.3       8.3      7.6         7.3        6.4      6.4       6.6      6.5       6.3
Agriculture                                    1,211.4                       5.2     -7.5       8.9       0.5         8.6       5.0       5.0      4.5       4.0      4.0
.Industry                                           2,579.8                       7.8      7.0       9.2     11.9         7.6        6.8       7.0      8.0       8.0      7.5
Services                                       3,512.6                       5.4       5.8      7.7       8.2         6.7       6.5       6.5      6.5       6.5      6.4
Consumption                                       6,400.0                      8.8       9.5       9.3      7.1         6.9        6.7      8.8       6.9       5.0      6.6
Cross investment                                  2,345.7                      16.9      5.8       6.6      8.7         0.5        8.4      3.8       6.1       5.7      5.4
Exports of goods and NFS                          3,444.4                      9.6       5.6      9.1      18.8         5.4        4.2      3.1       3.7      9.7       8.9
Imports of goods and NFS                         3,696.3                      19.3      16.5      9.6      14.4         3.9        6.4      6.0       4.3      5.6       8.5
Gross national product                            8,437.0                       6.0      4.8       9.2      8.0         6.3        6.5      6.5       6.5      6.4       6.2
Cross national savings                            2,037.0                     -6.3      -1.7     21.2      35.8         6.3        4.9     -2.0       5.0     12.9       5.9
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                                 137.7    151.4   158.6    174.2          190.3         -        -         -
Exchange rate                                                                  2.33      2.33      2.40     2.46        2.47        -        -         -
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)                                       Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                             (at constant Prices)
1970       1975        1980        1986        1991              1970-75      1975-80      1980-85       1981-86       1986-91
Gross domestic product                     100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0                  8.5          7.0          6.5          6.5            5.8
Agriculture                            16.7        18.2        14.3        12.7        11.1                 8.8          1.0          4.5          4.2            3.0
Industry                               20.5        27.1        29.5        31.2       32.8                  9.0          7.5          7.5          7.7           6.8
Services                               49.3        42.7       42.2        42.2        42.2                  8.7          6.0          6.5          6.5            5.8
Consumption                                84.8         75.5       70.0        70.8        71.8                  8.6          8.3          6.8          6.6           6.2
Gross investment                            19.7       29.3        28.3        27.2        25.4                 11.8          6.8          5.7          5.4           4.3
Exports of goode and NFS                    21.9       31.3        38.5        35.9        33.3                 12.5          9.7          5.7          6.5           5.1
Imports of goods and NFS                   26.4        36.1        41.4        40.3        38.7                 11.3         12.1          5.9          5.9           5.1
Cross national product                      97.9        99.9        99.5        99.3       97.9                  8.7          7.0          6.4          6.4            5.5
Net factor income                            2.1         0.1         0.5         0.7         1.9                  -            -            -            -
Cross national savings                      13.2        24.3       23.6        21.8        18.9                  7.5          5.9                       2.2
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1970       1975        1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                   23.5        25.7        27.2
Current expenditure                                               20.4        19.9        18.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          3.1         5.9        8.6
Capital expenditure                                                 9.5       10.8        14.8
Foreign financing                                                   5.0         1.8        1.3
1970-75          1975-80           1980-85           1981-86           1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate  (X>                                                 8.7               7.0               6.4               6.3               5.5
CNP per capita growth rate (Z)                                       6.3               4.4               4.0              4.0                3.1
ICOR                                                                 2.6               3.6              4.4               4.4               4.6
Marginal savings rate                                               30.5              17.6             20.1              22.8               8.2
Import elasticity                                                    1.24              1.81             0.91              0.91              0.89
/l  1980 data at 1979 prices.
12 GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA CP 2C
August 1981



- 27 -
AXNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita;  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                    An-nal Growth Rates
(million U0$                     Actual (at 1972 prices)         Actual L            Projected  (at 197" prices)
Indicator                              at current prices)
1980                      1976    1977      1978    1979    1980        1981    1982    1983        1984      19S5
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                            2,282.Q                      5.8    -5.(      16.û    10.1       3.9       1.5       0.2     0.9    10.8         9.5
Crude oil                                    1,168.5                   -15.0       1.9    14.0    91.3    11.0         -4.5    -7.8    -6.6    -1.6            -
Other primary                                  207.9                    21.8   -17.9    34.7    10.0           .4       5.8      2.7      2.6      2.5        2.5
Manufactures                                   906.5                    37.2    -1.5       21.9    14.8       1.6       7.3      6.9      6.4    20.9 /2  15.9 /2
Merah..dise imports                            3,340.7                     13.6    30.4       5.5    11.7       1.9       6.4      6.0       4.1      5.6       8.7
Food                                           422.4                   -13.5     25.5    11.1    22.2         2.7       6.0      2.9      5.0      3.3       4.8
Petroleum                                      662.0                   -24.8    -8.5       -3.9    25.7       3.0       9.9    14.2    -3.5        5,7 /2  23.3 /2
Mlachinery and equipment                       765.7                    19.1       2.4      5.2   -11.0    -1.3         3.8      6.5      6.1      5.7        5.4
Others                                       1,490.6                     31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1       3.2       6.6      3.4      6.1      6.1       5.q
Price Index                                  Price Inde,x_
PRICfS
Export price index                                 -                   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9   128.0    135.7   148.1   161.0   177.3    193.9
Import price index                                                     163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6   115.3    128.2   141.4   153.7   166.8    181.3
Terms of trade index (1972=100)                    -                   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3   139.0          138.0   136.4   136.6   138.5    139.3
(1979=100)                                        -         -        -        -    106.7    105.9   104.7   104.8   106.3    1(06.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                                  Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                          (at constant prices)
1970    1975      1980    1981      1986    1991              1970-75     1975-80      1980-85     1981-86       1986-91
Exports                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   1001.0                    11.6         9.4         4.2          5.5          2.9
Crude oil                            24.5    41.8    51.1    49.3    35.0    29.0                     23.2          3.0        -4.1        -3.8          -3.5
Other primary                        21.2    18.0       9.1      9.2       7.0      6.0                6.7          2.0         3.2         3.0           3.0
Manufactures                         54.3    40.2      39.8    41.5    58.0    65.0                    6.2         14,3        11.2        12.0           5.5
Importa                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                    13.4         12.4          5.8         5.9           5.1
Food                                 20.6    15.8    12.6    13.6    13.6    12.9                      8.9          7.5         4.2         4.2           4.4
Petroleum                             4.0      9.8     19.7    20.5    24.4    25.2                   36.5        23.2          8.0         7.6           4.1
Machinery and Equipment              23.0    30.2    22.8    21.8    20.7    19.5                     15.7          8.3         5.7         5.7           4.4
Others                               52.4    44.2    44.8    44.1    41.3    42.4                     10.6        13.2          5.5         5.7           6.1
Share of Trade with                   Shame of Trade with                        Share of Trade with
Industrial Coontries ()               Developing Countries (%)               Capital Surplus Oil Exportera Cl)
1970      1975      1980              1970      1975       1980                   1970    1975       1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     62.6      48.6      74.1               23.4      41.4       n.a.                   14.0    10.0       n.0.
Imports                                     62.9      67.1      73.5              33.7       25.7       n.a.                    3.4      7.2      n.a.
/1  1980 data at 1979 prices.
/2  Increase in refining capacity.
/3  For 1981-85, export and import pri-e index is hased on 1979=100.
EMENA CP 2C
August 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX T
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE 0F PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US  at current prices)
Population; 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita; $1,120 (1979)
Ar tual                                                  Projec ted
1970      1975       1978       1979      1980            1981       1982      1983       1986       1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net e-por-s of goods B services                -104.5    -208.8    -599.7    -478.5    -296.5             -463.6    -718.9      874.7  -1,040.9  -2,728.0
Exports of goods 6 services                   355.6   1,529.2   2,090.6   2,913.9   3,825.1            4,363.4   4,877.5   5,458.9   8,440.5  14,106.6
Imports of goods S services                   460.1   1,738.0   2,690.3   3,392.4   4,121.6            4,827.0   5,596.4   6,333.6   9,481.4  16,838.6
Net transfers /1                                 53.0       47.4       33.6      31.0       25.6            26.0       26.1      26.1       26.2       11.3
Current account balance                         -51.5    -161.4    -566.1    -447.5    -270.9             -437.6    -692.8    -848.6  -1,014.7  -2,716.7
Direct private investment                        25.5       50.2       91.1     164.8       95.0           200.0      250.0     300.0      450.0      724.7
MLT loans (net)                                  43.4      124.5      468.6     438.0      399.1           325.8      539.0     640.7      688.5   2,200.2
Official                                       41.7      102.9       84.8     318.8      436.0           379.2      433.3     375.3      345.3      379.5
Private                                          1.7      21.6       83.8     162.2      -36.9           -53.4      105.7     265.4      343.2   1,820.5
Other capital                                      2.0     -10.4       41.4     -22.6      -83.7              -          -          -         -          -
Change in reserves                              -19.4       -2.9      -35.0    -132.7    -139.9            -90.6       96.2     -92.1    -123.8    -208.1
International reserves                           15.4      362.2      269.9     402.3      542.2           632.8      728.9     821.1   1,214.6   2,134.3
Reserves as months of imports                     0.4        2.4        1.3        1.4       1.6             1.6        1.6       1.6        1.5        1.5
Actual                                                   Projected
1970      1975       1978      1979       1980            1981       1982      1983       1986       1991
CROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Officiai grants                                  43.0       50.2       32.7      50.7       24.6            25.0       25.0      25.0       25.0       10.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                 86.8      193.3      556.7     746.1      652.6           635.1      865.7   1,032.5   1,459.0   3,358.0
Concessional                                     45.2      100.1      184.5      193.2     407.2           349.8      341.3     288.4      220.6      246.2
Bilateral                                      41.3       82.0      175.1     179.0      308.9           265.5     271.8      239.3      169.6      186.6
IDA                                             2.9       12.6        1.8       0.2        1.5             1.1        .5         .2         -          -
Other m.ltilateral                               1.0       5.5        7.6      14.0      106.8            83.2       69.0      48.9       50.9       59.6
Non-concessional                                 41.6       93.7      372.2     552.9      235.4           285.3      524.4     744.1   1,238.4   3,739.8
Private                                        31.1       51.3      321.3     431.9      122.2           112.8      308.2     499.5      856.0   3,111.8
Official export credits                         1.3       15.0        6.1        5.0      15.8            52.3       59.1      67.7      107.4      150.0
IBRD                                            9.2       26.9      33.0       55.4       62.3            98.1     134.1      149.6      145.8     186.6
Other ..ltilateral                                -         -        11.7      60.6       35.1            22.1       23.0      27.3      129.2      291.4
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                  540.9   1,034.4   2,409.2   3,053.2   3,452.4            3,778.2   4,317.2   4,957.0   6,763.6  14,896.4
Official                                      367.0      858.6   1,583.4   1,864.2   2,300.2           2,679.4   3,112.7   3,488.0   4,473.9   6,490.2
IBRD                                         26.3      109.8     189.4      232.0      281.3           361.4     473.0      595.3      862.1   1,192.3
IDA                                          16.2       55.3      67.4       67.3       68.4            69.0      68.7       68.1       65.3      58.2
Other                                       224.5      693.5   1,326.6   1,564.9   1,950.5           2,249.0   2,571.0   2,824.6   3,546.5   5,239.7
Private                                       173.9      175.8      825.8   1,189.0   1,152.2          1,098.8   1,204.5   1,470.0   2,289.6   8,406.2
Undisbursed debt                                307.0      741.3   1,794.4   1,773.8   1,532.2           1,451.1   1,372.8   1,445.3   2,820.5   2,925.3
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                      63.1      101.3      214.5     311.6      460.4           522.2      545,3     635.4   1,129.2   2,657.2
Interest                                        17.8      35.0       96.1     159.5      206.9           212.9      218.6     243.6      358.7      871.3
Payments as % exports                             17.7       6.6       10.2        9.9      12.0            12.0       11.2       11.6      13.4       18.8
Payments as % GNP                                 4.4        2.4        3.6       4.3        4.4             4.3        4.2       4.4        4.5        4.1
Average interest rate of new Loans (%)             3.4       3.9        7.1        7.3       5.6             6.8        7.3        7.7       7.9        7.7
Official                                         2.7       3.3        4.4        5.6        -               -          -          -         -          -
Private                                         6.3        6.7        8.9       11.1        -               -          -          -         -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)            26.6       24.2       14.5       17.0      26.1            19.6       15.6       13.7      13.1        9.8
Officiai                                        31.2      27.1       21.0       20.1        -               -          -          -         -          -
Private                                         9.2        9.1       10.0       10.1
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
DE8T STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (X)
Amortization due within 5 years                                          52.5
Amortization due within 10 years                                         96.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding 1%)
Interest due within first year                                            6.8
/1 Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
August 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX Il 
Page I of If)
A.  STATEME.NT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of July 31 1981)
104 Million
Loan3  or                                                                                                       Amotint (less
Cred it                                                                                                         Cancellation)
Ntimber      Year              Borrower                            Purpose                             Bank        1DA hi      todisburscd
Twenty-five Loans and Credits Filly Disbursed                                                         181.99       hO.47
238         1971       Republic of Tuinisia                 Population                                            4.80            1.13
858         1972       Republic of Tunisia                  Tourism Infrastructure                    14.(0                       (.q5
937         1973       Republic of Tuinisia                 Urban Planiniiag and Public
Trans pora t ion                          l.0                        O.37
10)2Q        1974       Republic otf lunisia                Ilotel Training                             5.60                      0).09
1042          1974      Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de CAPSA               Phosphate Development                     23.30                       I.LI
1068         1974       Repuiblic of Tulnisia                Irrigation Rehabilitation                 12.20                       3.52
1088          1975      Rppublic of Tunisia                  Orbanl Sewerage                           28.00                       6.0(3
1155          1975      Republic of l'unisia                 Third Education                            8.60                       6.75
1188          1973      Rephblic af Throisia                 Second Highways                           28.00                      20.23
238-1         1976      Republic of Ttinisia                 Population                                             4.80            .81
1340         1976       Banique Nationale de Tunisie         Second Agricultural Credit                12.00                       2.65
1355         1976       Société Tunisienne de
l'Electricité et diu Gaz             Second Power                              14.50                      0.10
1431         1977       Republic of Tuinisia                 Irrigation Development                    42.00                      15.68
1445         1977       SONEDE                               Fourth Water Supply                       21.00                      13.82
1504         1977       BDET                                 Development Finance Coîspally             30.00                      4.23
1505         1977       Rephiblic of Tuilisia                Smali-Scale Induistrial Project            5.00                       2.66
16(1         1978       Republic of Tunisia                  Rural Roads (Third Hliglhways)            32.00                     30.02
1675         1979       Republic uf Tunisia                  Second Urban Seweraee                     26.50                     25.30
1702         1979       Société Nationale
d'Exploitatioui d'Eau                Fifth Water Supply                       25.00                      15.10
1705         1979       Republic of Tunisia                  Second Urban Development                  19.00                     18.54
1746         1979       Republic of Tunlisia                 Second Fisheries                          28.50                     26.83
1796         1980       Republic nf Tuinisia                 Southern Irrigation                       25.00                     24.84
1797          1980      Office des Ports Nationaux           Third lPort                               42.50                     29.29
1841         1980       Republic of Tunisia                  Fouirth ilighwavs                         36.50                     36.30
1864 a!      1980       Société runisienine de
l'Electricité  et du Gaz             Second Natiural Cas Pipeline              37.00                     37.nt3
1885         1980       Banque Natroinale de Tulnisie        Third Agricultural Credit                 30.00                     30.1)1
19hl         1931       Reputblic ,f 'Fulis îoa             8Lurt0h  Odoa tin                         7ù.Oii
13h9 a/      1981      Re pibhl i c o f Tin is i a          Sisall-Seale Iniduistr; Developmnent    30. )0                       3n1.no
1997 al       1981      Rephblîic ofT luinst                 N cthwest kural Dove'lparl t              34i.0B                    74 .i)
2U0 3 al      1981      Republ iz of Toinisia                Third Power                               41.50                     412.50
2o)t)3 a/     1981      Republ ic o f Tunllisîia             )l,alth and PopuIlatioll                   2.5)                      12 .51
2012 ci       1981      Republic nf Toinisia                 Textile Rehahil itation                   18 7t)0                    18.60
TOTAL                                                                        841.79       70 .07        5(6.62
Of which bas been repaid                                                      84.05        5.68
Total now outtstanding                                                       8(07.74      64.39
Aimount Sold                                 14 3.3
nf whicic  as been repaid                   I .n7                              2.71
ToLal now held by Bank andl IDA b/                                           805.03       64.39
Total ljndisbursed                                                           (04 .68       1. q44       506 .62
a/  Not yet effrctive
b/  Prior to exchange adjustment
c/ Approved but not signed



- 30 -
ANNEX Il
Page 2 of 10
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of July 31, 1981)
Anount in US$ Million
Year        Obligator                               Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                  Fertilizers                  2.0      1.5       3.5
1966   Societe Nationale d' Investissement          Development Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                              Development Finance Co.   8.0         2.2      10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                           Development Finance Co.               0.6       0.6
1973   Societe Touristique & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                     Tourism                       1.6     0.3        1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                             Tourism                       2.5     0.7        3.2
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor                Chemicals                             0.6       0.6
1978   -IDET                                        Development Finance Co.               1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                                  14.1      7.7     21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repaynents and sales                                                     7.4      1.9       9.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                                         6.7      5.8      12.5
T7otal undisbursed                                                                0.0        0.0



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed. The Tunis facility has been operat-
ional since September 1980; its capacity is being extended from 180 to 300
beds. The hospital at Sfax has been operational since October 1980. The
Sousse facility has been staffed and will be inaugurated shortly. The
construction of the fourth maternity hospital at Bizerte is likely to be
completed by end 1981. Twenty-eight of the 29 maternal and child
health/family planning centers have been completed. One center (La Hafsia)
has been deleted from the project because the Government has been unable to
obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
Transports (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock,
improving its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1042;       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alter-
native deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage
and road networks continues to be satisfactory. However, for the marketing
center in Nebhana.it was necessary for bids to be called again after the
previously successful bidder went bankrupt. In the Medjerda area, land
reform is progressing slowly, and farmers are lagging behind in meeting
their contributions to the investment costs. In Nebhana, the land consol-
idation program is developing well and farmers have been settled on nearly
65 percent of the total area. OMVVM continues to encourage large owners to
improve cultivation of land and marked progress has been reported in the
distribution of medium and short-term credit. Production of early
vegetables under greenhouses in the Nebhana is encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date; December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,



- 33 -
ANNEX Il
Page 5 of 10
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assist-
ance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Implement-
ation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and as planned in the
revised schedule. There was a slight delay of about three months in
construction, but the procurement of furniture and equipment is running
ahead of schedule. The final bid documents for the extension of the five
teacher training colleges have been received and are now under awarding
procedures. All major covenants have been met.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is well advanced on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and Il have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The transport coordination study has been completed and the Government is
reviewing the consultants' recommendations.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed by the
Government or by the Third Agricultural Credit project. Categories 2 and 4
(subloans to commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors) are fully
disbursed. Category 1 (subloans to small and medium farmers) are expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1981. Disbursements for Category 3
(subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations) are expected to begin soon, after BNT and Government have
approved six subprojects. The Closing Date has been extended to December
31, 1982, by which time Category 3 is expected to be fully disbursed.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981. Disbursements are being made
only on commitments prior to June 30, 1981.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation
continues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule and
filling of the reservoir to start in September, as planned at appraisal.
The new railroad is now completed and in commercial service. After some
initial delays, construction of the Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal
is proceeding more rapidly, and an 8 km section was recently put into oper-
ation to supply potable water to Tunis. However, tunneling is still
progressing slowly on the canal link to Cap Bon.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date. December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the project
is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by



- 35 -
ANNEX  I
Page 7 of 10
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal estimates. Under the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the commercial banks'
initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing has been over-
come. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities
toward setting up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance
experts, specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the
project.
Ln 1601:        Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces.
Progress on the complementary agricultural component, after an initial
delay, is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Government wishes to expand
the project to cover three additional provinces, and will be sending a
formal request to the Bank.
Ln 1675:        Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proce-
eding. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and seven-
teen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by mid-1981.



- 36 -
ANNEX Il
Page 8 of 10
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  December 1, 1980;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily.  Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746;       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date.
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded and
construction is well underway at most sites. Detailed design for boat hulls
has been completed and procurement is underway. Bid awards for boat engines
have been made.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project and borings are underway at several sites. A contract
has been awarded for supply of asbestos-cement pipes to be used in rehabil-
itation of irrigation infrastructure in existing cases.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date; June
30,. 1985.
The physical execution of the project at La Goulette is now
progressing well. Dredging of the channel and of the new basin area was
completed by mid April 1981. The reclamation at the new port area behind
the project quay line is under way. The casting yard for concrete quay
caissons will be operational in July 1981. As a result of initial delays in
starting the dredging operations, the civil works are about 5 months behind
schedule. At Sfax, the contracts for civil works were in July 1980. Dredg-
ing started in October 1980 but works were delayed on the landward side
until the shipyards and the fishing port were removed to their new locations
in late February 1981. Further problems have developed in connection with
the innovating casting technique: heated concrete blocks showed cracks
through testings and the causes are being investigated by the contractor
which has deferred further casting. This will add to the 9 months delay
from which civil works in Sfax have already suffered. Supervision is
working satisfactorily in both ports. Consulting services to develop and
implement training programs for port workers will be provided in late August
1987 to OPNT and STAM.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness; November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well; the 1981 program is on
schedule. Elements of the 1982 program for rehabilitation and maintenance
have been discussed with the Government, and the proposed 1982 action plan
is expected to be received by the Bank by the due date of September 30,
1981.
Ln. 1864;       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Planned Date of
Effectiveness: October 15, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope has been modified because of uncertain-
ties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has been
redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute for premium liquid fuel
products.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; June 24, 1981;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and agroindustries.
The loan became effective after one extension of the original date of April
30, 1981. Disbursements are expected to start immediately for those
purposes where Agricultural Credit II is already overcommitted (commercial
farmers, producer cooperatives and agroindustries).
Ln. 1961-TUN   Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness; July 17, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily,
with assistance from the ILO. The first phase of construction has already
been tendered. All the final lists of furniture and equipment have been
completed and the programs reviewed. Technical Assistance to aid in rein-
forcement of the management, logistics and programs of the network of
vocational centers is under negotiation.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. 1969:       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness;
September 15, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small scale industries through financial and technical assist-
ance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia
and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating banks. The
remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the appraisal capac-
ity of the Investment Promotion Agency.
Ln. 1997;       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 15,
1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1987.
The Project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15-year development program for the northwest region by
concentrating on the establishment of institutions which could implement the
program, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock development
services. The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil
conservation and forestry activities, together with productive infra-
structure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrifiation and
in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network and improving the supply
of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:       Health and Population Project;  US$12.5 million loan of July
15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness; October 15, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train project personnel.



- 39 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Grain Distribution and Storage Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I : Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare             22 months (March 1979
the project                                      through January 1981)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:               Office of Cereals (OC)
with assistance of
consultants and FAO/CP
(c) Project first identified by Bank;                May 1978
(d) Date of Bank appraisal mission:                  February 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:              August 21, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                   End of January 1982
Section Il : Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III : Special Conditions
1. Special conditions of disbursement include the conclusion of
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank between; (i) OC and OPNT for the
procurement, supervision, and maintenance of ports works and dredging
at Bizerte; (ii) OC and SNCFT for procurement, supervision and
maintenance activities in respect of, and the operation of all
facilities and equipment included in the railway component of the
project; and (iii) OC and CCGC for OC management of the rehabilitation
of CCGC's Manouba silo and reimbursement by CCGC of the costs on
appropriate terms and conditions (para. 50).
2. Other conditions are:
During negotiations, assurances were obtained:



- 40 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(a) from the Government, that it would:
(i)   cause the Ministry of Equipment to complete by December 31, 1982
the construction of the silo quay at the new port of Ghannouch
and upon completion of the construction to transfer ownership of
the quay to OPNT (para. 50).
(ii)  transmit to the Bank, no later than June 30, 1982 for an exchange
of views the strategy established for the period of the Sixth
Plan (1982-86) in respect of the livestock subsector and
subsequently, take all appropriate measures to eliminate in
progressive steps price subsidies for animal feed grain,
according to a timetable to be agreed upon by the Government and
the Bank, no later than December 31, 1982 (para. 39).
(iii)   cause the Price Equalization Fund (CGC) to make transfer payments
to OC within three months after the due date, or failing the
availability of resources in CGC, to pay OC itself by means of
Treasury advances (para. 38); and
(iv)   implement, by March 31, 1984, a plan of action to improve OC's
financing system (para. 51);
(b)       from OC, that it would, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank:
(i)   carry out a study of OC's financial system and a plan of action
for its improvement by September 30, 1983, present them to the
Bank for review and comment, furnish the plan of action to the
Government for approval, and implement it no later than March 31,
1984 (para. 51);
(ii)   carry out a study on the further modernization of the system of
collection, storage and transport of domestic grain, by June 30,
1983 (para. 51);
(iii)   establish a planning and evaluation unit, a central silo
maintenance unit and a transport unit respectively by March 31,
1982, December 31, 1982 and June 30, 1983 (para. 54); and
(iv)   employ consultants by April 30, 1982 to assist in the preparation
of the studies and in the establishment of the three units (para.
51 and 54).
(c)        from OC, OPNT, and SNCFT, that they would enter into
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, under which OC would make
available to OPNT and SNCFT part of the proceeds of the loan
required for carrying out the port and railway components of the
project (para. 47).



./-/    d a'    t e         r  r   a  rfean                       ,               :T    
X      END0uBAgPs                                   ç)'
9   Gh.,d-                                              0  Et Fohs               ;
,C 12            -      ,,                                 
/   2LE KEF  3                                 =\                        i       fu;  o
<rb     ! 1  205   lt-           - C L B   ~~~SILIANA_                               ,. 
o   j XAS                                                                  L                                                         ;5!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NSI
S"",a ! 2 I  \    I            =           * i   X    ' X                           b+~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHDIA
J  ff-      [~KASSERINE          '                                         X    ffE  \           (
GAFSA<  e\                      \        ,          /vç
R.dy.l'          l° -              `         \                    ~     ~     /        T
.  1  34  ,  \  *=Ç§^i.q *7U/! Of G2hes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
. -_3                  ,SI                                                     \        \         l
z w                        ~~~~~~~MEDENINE °            -        <  
T U NISI '1 A 
PROJECTED GRAIN DISTRIBUTION                                                                                                 -â                              ;
AND STORAGE, 1986                                                                                                              or
~33'                             )-Tons Tronsported by Truck                     N.te-Ail Tonnoa;es are shown 
-   Tons Transported by Tramn                      in Thouscinds                      orhUn  
é3Tons Transported by Progrommed Tramn,(hr
Leg,onal Mill Demond (Tons)                                                 ,'1X  
Fc 27A    Co "br  "
[_ 62     Imports 
i   .  E3  Storoge Silos /Cc/prc11),1ThrouvghputJ m TonsNiD
3  36aPort Silos (C.paci4,nmTons) 
Collecr,on of Locol Gra,, ProductIon 
Imports ( Tons )                                                                                          11
:;1m    Ports                                 o       0       40      60      ao      lso          M         °t                 i
Sto.da,d Gouge Roilwoys                                hLMT  S;  
Norrow Gauge Ro d woys Ei ii).iUÉA>dr   
32'                                   Radlw.y Under Const,uc,lon hsphl lnre@eb t/cv dlh ih ioutao h *i   
k           8          '    ~~~~~~~Internat,onol Boundo,Ies      a-rc  g ibù  h35dl tv  mrnar8dnadss                       § AE          ;   



