OFFICIAL       LOAN NUMBER 2052 TUN
OCUMEN Pf
Project Agreement
(Grain Distribution and Storage Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE DES CEREALES
OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX TUNISIENS
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISIENS
Dated                               1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2052 TUN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   odP7-L      07, 1981, among INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) OFFICE DES CEREALES (hereinafter called OC), OFFICE DES
PORTS NATIONAUX TUNISIENS (hereinafter called OPNT) and SOCIETE
NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER TUNISIENS (hereinafter called SNCFT).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-two million
dollars ($42,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that OC, OPNT and SNCFT
agree each to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and OC, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to OC on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS OC, OPNT and SNCFT, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms, defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) OC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with the assistance of OPNT and
SNCFT, and OPNT and SNCFT shall provide such assistance, all with


﻿-2-
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, commercial, engineering, grain storage
and transport practices, and shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) OC shall obtain the assistance of OPNT and SNCFT, and
OPNT and SNCFT shall provide such assistance, in respect of the
Project under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, under which:
(i) OPNT shall carry out procurement, supervision and
maintenance activities in respect of Part B of the
Project; and,
(ii) SNCFT shall, on behalf of OC, carry out procure-
ment, supervision and maintenance activities in
respect of, and the operation of all facilities and
equipment included in, Part C of the Project.
(c) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall duly carry out all their
obligations under the arrangements referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section.
(d) OC shall make available to OPNT and SNCFT in a timely
manner all funds, including part of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to OC by the Borrower, as shall be required to enable OPNT
and SNCFT to carry out the activities referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) (i) OC shall, until all facilities included in the
Project shall have become fully operational and
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, maintain
in operation the PMU.
(ii) OC shall ensure that PMU shall at all times have
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
including inter alia:
-    the management of silo construction, expan-
sion and rehabilitation works included in
the Project;
-    the coordination with other departments and
agencies of the Borrower concerned with
the Project; and


﻿- 3
-3-
-    the monitoring of, and reporting on, the
execution of the Project, all as provided in
Section 2.06 (d) and (e) hereof.
(iii) OC shall ensure that PMU's personnel shall at all
times have qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Bank and shall include, inter alia, a
director charged also with the secretariat of
PCC, a qualified technician per silo work site for
the supervision of works, and other personnel in
sufficient numbers.
(                   (iv) OC shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with CCGC for the carrying out of
rehabilitation works by OC for the Manouba silo,
and for the reimbursement by CCGC to OC of
expenditures incurred by OC in this respect.
Section 2.02. In order to assist OC in the design, procure-
ment and supervision of works, and initial operation of the
facilities, included in Part A of the Project, OC shall employ or
continue to employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) In order to assist OC in carrying out
Part D of the Project, OC shall, by April 30, 1982, or such other
date as the Bank may agree, employ management and financial
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) (i) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, OC shall (A)
carry out the study of, and prepare on the basis of
the results of such study the plan of action for,
OC's financial system referred to under Part D (a)
of the Project, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (B) complete such
study and prepare such proposed plan of action by
September 30, 1983.
(ii) (A) Such study and plan of action shall, promptly
upon their completion, be furnished to the Bank for
its review and comments and (B) upon receipt by OC
of such comments, such plan of action shall be
furnished to the Borrower by OC for its approval.


﻿-4-
(iii) Promptly upon the Borrower's approval thereof
and in any event not later than March 31, 1984,
or such other date as the Bank may agree, OC shall
take all appropriate steps required on its part
to implement said plan of action.
(c) (i) In carrying out of Part D (a) of the Project, OC
shall establish and, thereafter, maintain in
operation a central silo maintenance unit, a
transport unit and a planning and evaluation unit,
such units to be established, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, by December 31, 1982,
June 30, 1983 and March 31, 1982, respectively.
(ii) Such units shall operate under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) (i) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, OC shall,
through the planning and evaluation unit referred
to in Section 2.03 (c) (i) of this Agreement: (A)
carry out the study on the further modernization
of the system of collection, storage and transport
of domestic grain included in Part D (a) of the
Project under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank; and (B) complete such study by
June 30, 1983.
(ii) Such study shall, promptly upon its completion, be
furnished to the Borrower and the Bank for their
respective review and comments.
(e) In carrying out Part D (b) of the Project, OC shall
furnish to the Bank for its approval a detailed description of
proposed overseas training activities.
(f) In order to assist OC in carrying out Part D of the
Project, OC shall, by April 30, 1982, or such other date as the
Bank shall agree, make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with
CCGC and COCEBLE (i) to ensure CCGC's and COCEBLE's participation
in OC's integrated silo maintenance and stock control system, and
(ii) for the provision of training to CCGC's and COCEBLE's staff
for the purpose of such participation.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of the


﻿proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement, it being understood that OC, OPNT and
SNCFT shall each be responsible for the procurement of the goods
and works required for the respective Parts of the Project
entrusted to them under the arrangements referred to in Section
2.01 (b) of this Agreement and that the term "entity", whenever
used in said Schedule, shall be deemed to refer to OC, OPNT or
SNCFT as applicable.
Section 2.05. (a) OC, OPNT and SNCFT each undertake to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by OC, OPNT and SNCFT to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, OC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Sectic: 2.06. (a) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall each furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for Parts A, B and C, respectively, and
.any material modifications theriof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reakonably request.
(b) OC, OPNT and SNCFT: (i) shall raintain records and
procedures adequate to record ,.and monitor the progress of the
Parts of the Project for which they are respectively responsible
.(including their cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Parts of the Project
for which they are respectively responsible; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Parts of the Project for which
they are respectively responsible, and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Parts of the Project for which they are
respectively responsible, their cost and, where appropriate, the


﻿-6-
benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by OC, OPNT or SNCFT, as the case may be,
of any contract for goods, works or services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description
thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom the
contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) (i) Until the completion of the Project, OC shall,
through PMU and with the assistance of OPNT and
SNCFT as applicable, prepare and furnish to the
Bank and PCC quarterly progress reports on the
Project, of such scope and in such detail as the
Borrower and the Bank shall reasonably request.
(ii) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, OC shall, through its planning and
evaluation unit referred to in Section 2.03 (c) (i)
of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the Bank
and PCC by June 30, 1984, or such other date as
may be agreed with the Bank, an interim evaluation
report on the Project, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date. as may be agreed for this purpose between OC and the
Bank, OC shall, through said planning and evaluation unit, prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by 0C, OPNT, and SNCFT and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
(f) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to examine all their plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property, equipment and any relevant records and
documents.
. Section 2.07. OC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise


﻿agree, OC shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of their respective obligItions
under this Agreement and, as to OC only, under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by OC, OPNT and SNCFT of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and, as to OC only, under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
OC, OPNT and SNCFT
Section 3.01. (a) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall at all times
carry on their respective operations, operate their respective
facilities, maintain their respective financial position, and plau
their respective future expansion in accordance with appropriate
business, financial, commercial, grain storage and transport
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by qualified and experienced personnel in
sufficient numbers.
(b) OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall at all times take all steps
necessary to maintain their operational structure and the right
to carry on their respective operations, including the Project,
and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all
steps necessary to acquire and retain such interests in land and
properties, and to acquire, maintain and renew such rights as may
be necessary or useful for the carrying out and operation of
the Project, the conduct of their respective business, and the
performance of their respective other obligations under this
Agreement.
(c) OC shall:
(i) ensure that its facilities and equipment are at all
times operated, maintained, renewed and repaired


﻿-8-
in accordance with appropriate management and
engineering practices;
(ii)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practices;
(iii)   enter into arrangements, in a timely manner, with
SNCFT for the integration of the fleet of available
bulk grain rail hopper cars, presently in use for
the bulk transport of grain, into the Gabes-Sfax
programmed train, such arrangements to be satis-
factory to the Bank; and
(iv)   ensure the transport, by efficient ways and
means, of grain exceeding the capacity of the
programmed trains.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) OC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the
foregoing, OC shall maintain a separate account in respect of the
Project.
Section 4.02. (a) OC shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and the accounts referred to
in Section 4.01 (b) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than ten months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of OC and the
account referred to in Section 4.01 (b) hereof and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
(b) Notwithstanding the above provisions, the documents
referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above shall be furnished to
the Bank, as to the fiscal years ending September 30, 1980 and
September 30, 1981, by December 31, 1981 and July 31, 1982,
respectively, or such other dates as may be agreed with the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement shall become
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations provided
for hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly so notify OC, OPNT and SNCFT thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OC:
Office des Cereales
30 rue Alain Savary
Tunis
Tunisia
Telex:
13449 TN
For OPNT:
Offices des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens
Batiment Administratif
Port de la Goulette
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
OFPORNA                            12386 TN
Tunis
For SNCFT:
'   Societg Nationale des Chemins
de Fer Tunisiens
67 Avenue Farhat Hached
Tunis
Tunisia
Cable address:
SONAFERTU
Tunis
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of OC, OPNT and SNCFT may be taken or


﻿- 11 -
executed by their respective President Director General or such
other person or persons as OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall designate
in writing, and OC, OPNT and SNCFT shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    S/
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OFFICE DES CEREALES
By //AL              /4k
Authorized Representative
OFFICE DES PORTS NATIONAUX TUNISIENS
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER
TUNISIENS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977, July 1980 edition,
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the entity concerned shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
and works in question. The entity concerned shall provide the
necessary information to update such notize annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
(b) Civil works and goods for Part A of the Project shall be
procured on the basis of the following additional requirements:
(i) bidders shall be required to submit bids based on
bid documents and detailed designs prepared by OC,
which bid documents shall allow, in addition, the
submission of bids based on the bidders' own
designs; and
(ii) contracts shall be grouped in three lots:
-    Bizerte, Beja, Manouba;


﻿-13-
  -  Kalaa Seghira, Sfax, Gafsa; and
-    Ghannouch.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tunisia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the entity concerned and the Bank
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿9                           -14-
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result
of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
.group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   The construction of the three dolphins and the dredging
included in Part B of the Project may be procured after competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with local proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Civil works and earth works for railway sidings included
in Part C (a) of the Project may be procured after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Bank, provided that the estimated cost of each
individual contract shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
3.   Miscellaneous equipment and supplies included in
Part A of the Project may be procured after competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Bank or through negotiated purchase after solicitation of
quotations from at least three suppliers, provided that the
estimated cost of each individual contract or purchase shall not
exceed $100,000 equivalent and provided that the aggregate cost of
all contracts so procured shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
...  ii


﻿-15-
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. OC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be
followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by OC to the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified of OC's decision, and OC shall make
such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said
list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for Parts A, C and D of the
Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, the entity concerned shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the entity
concerned shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name(s) of the bidder(s) to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the entity
concerned and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, material ly differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿-16-
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the entity concerned shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably r4quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that
-the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the entity concerned and state
the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the. entity concerned shall
inform the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the entity concerued and
state the reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Works related to the platform preparation and the laying of
tracks for silo rail sidings shall be carried out by SNCFT by
force account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    .k    day of  fL    , 198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


