DOCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 2052 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Grain Distribution and Storage Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                192  , 181
.4.                             ....


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2052 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated O7y (14-      0f   , 1981, between REPUBLIC
OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower or Tunisia) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Office des Cgreales
(hereinafter called OC), with the assistance of Office des Ports
Nationaux Tunisiens (hereinafter called -OPNT) and Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Tunisiens (hereinafter called SNCFT),
and with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to OC the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, OC, OPNT and
SNCFT;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
(  General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank,
OC, OPNT and SNCFT, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and OC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) "OC Legislation" means collectively the Borrower's
Decree - Laws No. 62-10 and 70.7 dated April 3, 1962 and
September 26, 1970, respectively, governing the establishment
and functions of OC.
(d) "OPNT Legislation" means collectively the Borrower's
Laws No. 72-5 and No. 65-2 dated February 15, 1972 and
February 12, 1965, respectively, governing the establishment and
functions of OPNT.
(e) "SNCFT Legislation" means collectively the Borrower's
Law No. 69-31 dated May 9, 1969 governing the establishment and
functions of SNCFT.
(f) "Dinar" or "Dt" means the Borrower's currency.
(g) "Project Coordination Committee" oi "PCC" means the
committee established and operating pursuant,to the Joint Decision
issued by the Ministers of Planning and 'Finance, of Agriculture
and of Transports and Communications, dated September 21, 1981.
(h) "Project Management Unit" or "PMU" means the Project
Management Unit established and operating pursuant to the
Decision No. 13.876 issued by the President Director General of
OC, dated September 11, 1981.
(i) "CCGC" means the Coop6rative Centrale des Grandes
Cultures.
(j) "COCEBLE" means the Coop6rative Centrale du Ble.
(k) "CGC" means Caisse Generale de Compensation.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may 'be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of ten and three-fifths per cent (10-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause OC, OPNT and SNCFT to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken, through, inter
alia, its respective Ministries responsible for agriculture,
equipment, and transport and communications, all actions, in-
cluding the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OC, OPNT and SNCFT
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be         )
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
OC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and OC, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall, without limitation,
provide that OC shall (i) pay to the Borrower interest at the rate
of 10-3/5% per annum on the principal amount so relent and with-
drawn by OC and outstanding from time to time, and (ii) repay to
the Borrower the principal amount so relent over a period not to
exceed 17 years including a grace period of about 4 years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(d) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, as and when required and without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
make available to OC, all funds, other than funds provided to OC
pursuant to the provision of paragraph (b) of this Section,
necessary to enable OC to carry out the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1982,
or such other date as the Bank may agree, complete the construc-
tion of the quay for berth four at the new port of Ghannouch
serving the city of Gabes.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall, promptly upon the completion of the
construction of said quay, take all appropriate steps to transfer
the ownership thereof to OPNT.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, no later than June 30,
1982, transmit to the Bank for an exchange of views the strategy
established for the period of the VIth Plan (1982-1986) in regard
of the livestock sub-sector.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all appro-
priate measures to eliminate in progressive steps price subsidies
for animal feed grain, according to a timetable to be agreed upon
by the Borrower and the Bank no later than December 31, 1982 or
such other date as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) Unless the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, until the completion of the
Project, maintain PCC in existence with such composition and
functions as provided for in the instrument referred to in Section
1.02 (g) of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PCC, inter alia:
(i) to convene at least every six months to review
OC's work programs for the purpose of ensuring
coordination amongst, and cooperation of, the
Borrower's ministries and agencies responsible for
providing assistance to OC in accordance with such
programs, and to review progress in the carrying
out of the Project; and
(ii) to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals such
information as the Bank may request in respect of
the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause CGC to pay to OC,
acting as operating agency, all arrears in reimbursements, on
account of payments made by OC for supporting the prices of grain
and grain derivatives, owed by CGC to OC, within three months
after the respective due dates thereof; it being understood
that, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
resources available to CGC will be inadequate to enable. CGC to
make such reimbursements to OC in a timely fashion, the Borrower
shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to
make such payments itself, in the form of advances, out of its
treasury resources and it being further understood that such
payments shall be recorded in the "price support" account of OC.


﻿Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Bank prior to the Borrower's approval of the plan of action
referred to in Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly, and in any event not later
than March 31, 1984 or such other date as may be agreed with the
Bank, take all measures required on its part to implement said
plan of action.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
.    Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secur,-
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "'public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative


﻿-7-
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) OC, OPNT or SNCFT shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that OC, OPNT or SNCFT will be able to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the OC Legislation, OPNT Legislation or SNCFT Legisla-
tion shall have been amended so as to materially and adversely
affect the respective operations or financial condition of OC,
OPNT or SNCFT, respectively; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of OC, OPNT or SNCFT, or for the suspension of the operations
of any of them.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and to the respective parties to the Project
Agreement; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and OC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
.furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by OC, OPNT and SNCFT, and is legally binding upon OC,
OPNT and SNCFT in accordance with its terms; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and OC and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and OC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date JCOAA AA\-Q  q    is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance of the           )
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planuing and Finance
Place De La Monnaie
Tunis
Tunisia


﻿-9-
.Cable address:                     Telex:
Ministry of Planning and            MIPLAN
Finance                       12117 TUN
Tunis
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(                      ByH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Silo Works and
installation of
related facilities
(a) at locations            23,500,000       40%
other than
Manouba
(b) at Manouba               2,500,000       50%
(2) Port Works                   1,000,000        60%
(3) Silo Rail Sidings            2,000,000        40%
(4) Rail Hopper Cars             3,000,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Engineering Services         2,200,000        80%
(6) Studies and Technical        1,200,000        80%
Assistance
(7) Overseas Training              200,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(8) Unallocated                  6,400,000
TOTAL        42,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of
payments made for engineering services before that date but after
March 1, 1981;
(b) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures under sub-Category (1) (b) above, until OC
shall have entered into the arrangements with CCGC referred to in
Section 2.01 (e) (iv) of the Project Agreement;
(c) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures under Category (2) above until OC shall have
entered into the arrangements with OPNT referred to in Section
2.01 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement; and
(d) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures under Categories (3) and (4) above until OC shall
have entered into the arrangements with SNCFT referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category or sub-Category


﻿-12-
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category or sub-Category, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or sub-
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category or sub-Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
The main objectives of the Project are: (i) to strengthen
grain storage capacity; (ii) to reduce the congestion, handling
costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the main Tunisian
seaports and the cost of transport and handling of grain; (iii) to
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of OC;
and (iv) to lay the groundwork for further modernization of the
system of collection, storage and transport of domestic grain.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Silo Works
Construction, rehabilitation and expansion by OC of grain
silos and auxiliary operational buildings, as follows:
- rehabilitation and expansion to a capacity of 30,000 tons
of the existing port silo at Bizerte and the installation
of related import handling facilities;
- construction of a port silo with a capacity of 30,000 tons
on the north quay of the new port of Ghannouch serving the
city of Gabes;
- rehabilitation of an existing storage silo with a capacity
of 50,000 tons at Manouba;
- construction of three storage silos, two with a capacity
of 10,000 tons each at Beja and Gafsa, and one with a
capacity of 20,000 tons at Sfax; and
- expansion to a capacity of 28,000 tons of the existing
storage silo at Kalaa Seghira.
Part B:   Port Works
The construction of three dolphins alongside the Bizerte silo
for mooring of ships and the dredging necessary to accommodate
ships of up to 30,000 tons, both actions to be carried out by
OPNT.


﻿-14-
Part C:   Silo Rail Sidings and Rail Hopper Cars
(a) Construction and rehabilitation of silo rail sidings by
SNCFT, on behalf of OC, as follows:
- construction of rail sidings at the new port of
Gannouch and at Sfax, Beja and Gafsa;
- rehabilitation of existing rail sidings at Bizerte,
Manouba and Kalaa Seghira.
(b) Acquisition and operation by SN"CFT, on behalf of OC,
of about 50 bulk grain rail hopper cars (consisting of
an approximately equal number of standard and narrow
gauge cars) of about 64-ton gross weight and 47-ton net
load capacity to be used for bulk grain transport in
programmed trains between Bizerte and Manouba, Gabes
and Sfax, and Gabes and Kalaa Seghira, and such other
routes as may be agreed with the Bank.
Part D:   Technical Assistance and Training
(a) Introduction of new organizational units within OC,
improvement of OC's grain distribution operations and
management (including inter alia silo maintenance, stock
control systems, import management, dom'stic transport
management, and evaluation and planning activities),
.carrying out of a study of, and preparation and imple-
mentation of a plan of action for the improvement of,
OC's financial system; and carrying out of a study of
the further modernization of the system of collection,
storage and transpor- of domestic grain.
(b) On-the-job and overseas training by OC of personnel of
OC and other agencies referred to in Section 2.03 (f)
of the Project Agreement, for the improvement of OC's
integrated grain distribution operations.
The Pro4ect is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1986
through   February 15, 1998                1,615,000
On August 15, 1998                              1,625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.85%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.75%
More than six years years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                          *       9.35%
More than fifteen years
before maturity
10.60%
O


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of         198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


