             Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 32394

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
     (TF-29311 IDA-30660 TF-26593)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 7.5 MILLION

                  TO

               ALBANIA

                FOR AN

 URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




             April 15, 2005

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2005)

                                    Currency Unit = Albanian Lek
                                           1 Lek = US$ 0.01022
                                          US$ 1 = Lek 97.81

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1   December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs        Community Based Organizations
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
ECHO European Commission Humanitarian Office
EU          European Union
GOA         Government of Albania
IDA         International Development Association
JSDF Japan Social Development Fund
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOTAT       Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
MTR         Mid-term Review
NGO         Non-Governmental Organizations
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PDO         Project Development Objective
PMT         Project Management Team
PRSC Poverty Reduction Structural Credit
TA          Technical Assistance
TTL         Task Team Leader




                                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                 Sector Manager     Lee Travers
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Toru Konishi

                                           ALBANIA

                              Urban Land Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            30

Project ID: P040975                                                  Project Name: Land Development
Team Leader: Toru Konishi                                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Land Development                                         L/C/TF Number: TF-29311; IDA-30660;
                                                                                                     TF-26593
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (51%); Power
                            (17%); Roads and highways (17%); General public administration
                            sector (10%); Other social services (5%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Other urban development
                            (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P); Land administration and
                            management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/14/1995                                     Effective: 09/12/1998                01/25/1999
     Appraisal: 01/19/1998                                         MTR: 08/31/0202                  08/12/2002
      Approval: 05/12/1998                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Albania/Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Arntraud Hartmann
Sector Manager:                 Sumter Lee Travers                             Margret C. Thalwitz
Team Leader at ICR:             Toru Konishi                                   Toru Konishi
ICR Primary Author:             Toru Konishi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objectives of the proposed project are to provide essential infrastructure to unserviced or
neglected areas in participating municipalities, including the Municipality of Tirana and the District of
Tirana, and to strengthen the institutions responsible for the delivery of urban services at the national and
local levels. Investment in roads, water supply, drainage, sewage, electricity, street lighting and domestic
waste collection and technical assistance to local authorities and participating communities are expected to
lead to: (a) enhanced productivity; (b) improved living conditions; (c) rational use of scarce urban land; and
(d) improved cost recovery for services.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision has been made.

3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised the following three components:

Component 1. Extension of Infrastructure Networks. This Component aimed at providing extension of
essential primary and secondary infrastructure such as access roads, water supply, sanitation, power
supply, street lighting and domestic solid waste collection.

            Access Roads were considered to be the most essential to defining the right of way in informal
            settlements, where settlers had randomly encroached public land. Access Roads were to define
            the layout of subdivisions and future locations of other infrastructure. The component aimed at
            establishing these access roads through careful consultation with settlement communities to
            avoid potential involuntary resettlement.

            Water Supply networks were to be extended under this Component, mainly for Bathore, a very
            large informal settlement in peri-urban Tirana. At appraisal, an estimated 2,000 families had
            settled without any access to water supply.

            Sanitation (sewage and drainage) was also considered important for some areas. During the
            Communist regime, investment in sewage and drainage was deficient, which had serious
            environmental impacts in high density urban areas.

            Power Supply networks were also planned under this Component. While power supply
            infrastructure was not typically on the top of the wish list of communities, investment in power
            supply is considered to be effective in reducing rampant illegal connections.

   Component 2. Institutional Development. This Component was to support the Government's initiatives
   for developing an institutional framework for addressing urban management and informal settlements,
   mainly through: (a) identification and preparation of subprojects; and (b) development of strategic
   investment plans for Tirana. In particular, the following three activities were planned at appraisal:

           l Preparation of Subsequent Subprojects. This activity was designed to strengthen local and
                 central government capacity to identify under-serviced urban areas, prioritize investment,
                 carry out social and economic assessments, and develop a plan for robust sub-projects.

           l Strategic Infrastructure Planning for Tirana. This activity was to support the




                                                      - 2 -

                Municipality of Tirana and the District of Tirana in: (a) assessing past demographic
                changes in Greater Tirana and subsequent urban development; (b) developing an inventory
                indicating the location and conditions of existing infrastructure; and (c) preparing a
                strategic infrastructure plan based on the population forecast and urban development
                requirements.

           l Community and NGO Support. This activity was to support the communities in: (i)
                forming representative groups known as Community Based Organizations (CBOs); (ii)
                entering into partnership agreements with the local authorities, and (iii) participating
                actively in the preparation of urban concept plans to regularize the informal settlements and
                in the prioritization of infrastructure investment.

   Component 3. Project Administration Support. This Component supported the essential of carrying out
   project implementation. It provided management support to the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and
   the Project Management Teams (PMTs) based at participating local governments. The Component
   financed incremental operating costs including project staff, office equipment, and incremental technical
   assistance to guide the first phase of project implementation (construction supervision and support for
   community associations through Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)).

3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions were made.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the project design was satisfactory. The following is a summary of the analysis of the quality at
entry.

    Consistency with CAS Objectives. At appraisal, the CAS was under preparation. However, in
    retrospect, the project was fully consistent with the CAS, approved by the Board on July 30, 1998,
    which envisaged supporting the country's post-crisis recovery through the following pillars: (a)
    governance and institution building (particular emphasis was placed on the development of civil
    society); (b) promoting private sector growth (lack of infrastructure in urban areas had been identified
    as a key constraint); and (c) accelerating human development and poverty alleviation. The project has
    contributed to all of the above mentioned pillars, through developing civil society in the informal
    settlements (pillar (a)), providing essential infrastructure (pillar (b)), and targeting informal settlements
    where most of the residents were poor immigrants from the mountainous northeastern region (pillar
    (c)).

    Appropriateness of Overall Sector Strategy and Project Scope. Given the crisis situation in urban
    development in 1997, the approach chosen in the project was cost-efficient and environmentally and
    socially responsive by addressing issues arising from rapid urbanization, such as degradation of urban
    infrastructure and the emergence of large informal settlements. Extension of essential infrastructure is
    critical to maintaining minimum living standards in neglected urban informal settlements, and their
    eventual regularization is essential to an inclusive and coherent urban society. While retaining its main
    focus on physical investment in infrastructure (more than 85 percent of the total cost), for the
    short-run, the project also aimed to help the Municipality of Tirana and the District of Tirana to
    develop a medium-term strategy for infrastructure investment. Given the urgent needs for investment,
    and limited capacity of the local institutions, the project's scope was realistic and relevant.

    Consistency with Government Priorities: Since early 1990, there has been an acute shortage of urban



                                                       - 3 -

    housing due to massive internal migration. The Government put a high priority on increasing the
    supply of urban housing, and requested Bank assistance. Through policy dialogue during project
    preparation, the Government shifted its emphasis from housing supply (i.e., provision of public
    housing, site and service development) to infrastructure support so as to stimulate private investment in
    housing. In addition, the Government recognized the need to integrate informal settlements into the
    formal urban structure. Prior to the inception of the project, the Parliament had adopted a law to
    classify Bathore and Lapraka ­ two major informal settlements in Tirana ­ as formal urban areas, thus
    excluding these two areas from possible restitution. The project was fully consistent with the
    Government's priorities.

    Assumptions on Risk Factors. The project's main overall risk assessment was S (substantial), and it is
    considered appropriate. Indeed, during implementation, two risk factors identified at appraisal - low
    cost recovery from beneficiaries, and lack of capacity of the local government - seriously affected the
    implementation of the project during the first two years. However, the planned mitigation measures
    could not be followed up (such as temporary tenure or provision of an option to purchase land), due to
    complex land tenure issues. More efforts could have been made to explore new ideas, such as
    competition among participating municipalities to raise incentives, and a more realistic target for
    community contributions.

    Project Objective and Monitoring Indicators. While overall project design was considered to be
    satisfactory, the monitoring indicators could have been less ambitious and more realistic. In particular,
    the list of indicators include those which are difficult to measure (e.g. occurrence of infectious
    diseases), and those which are beyond the project's control (e.g., mostly impact indicators).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   The overall achievement of the project objective is satisfactory. The project not only achieved the
   quantitative target on infrastructure development, but also had important impacts such as establishing
   methodologies for formalizing informal settlements and reducing illegal infrastructure connections. A
   detailed survey in the Bathore sub-project also indicates that the project had substantial socio-economic
   benefits.

   Physical Achievement. The project financed 19 sub-projects for infrastructure improvement, directly
   benefitting more than 8,000 families (or approximately 40,000 inhabitants) living in the project area,
   surpassing the appraisal target (approximately 7,000 families). The project also provided another
   18,000 families with indirect benefits in infrastructure improvement through significant investment in
   primary infrastructure networks, such as water mains, sewage collectors and electricity trunk lines
   (US$4.8 million in total). The rapid social assessment carried out in February 2005 with Bathore
   residents and the local government demonstrated extremely high beneficiary satisfaction (over 90
   percent). This was mainly due to the fact that the project adopted a participatory method in developing
   urban concept plans for regularization and subsequent prioritization of investments.

   Social and Economic Impacts. Infrastructure investment in informal settlements has already had
   tangible economic impacts within the project area, as envisaged at appraisal. An observation of the
   Bathore Pilot area indicates that investment has had significant impacts on productivity, better use of
   urban land and investment. In particular, the land price in Bathore which is a proxy for measuring
   productivity, has generally reached US$40 (inland ~ 80 (close to the main road) per square meter, i.e.,
   an increase of more than 150 percent of the price at appraisal. The land value became closer to that in



                                                      - 4 -

formal urban areas at a comparable distance from the city center, implying that people have started to
consider Bathore a formal urban area. Further, it is clearly shown that infrastructure investment has
also contributed to densification, an increase in housing investment, and the development of small
businesses.

                                          Table 1. Project Impacts in Bathore Pilot Area (10 hectares)
                                                                       At Appraisal                 At Completion
                                    Productivity
                            Average Land Price ($ per m ) 2                  19.0                       60-80

                            Better use of Urban Land

                            Number of Houses                                74                           174

                            Average Number of Floors                       1.00                          1.18

                              Private Housing Investment

                            Average Investment in Housing                 12,500                        38,000
                            (2005 constant US$)
                            Small Businesses                                 1                             26
                        Note: Land prices in Bathore Pilot Area are higher than in the other part of Bathore,
due to its proximity to the main national road.



A rapid assessment also revealed that the project had considerable social impacts, particularly among
youth and women. While quantified information was available, anecdotal evidence was also collected.
For example, water supply services freed up a substantial amount of time for women, who used to
spend several hours a day obtaining potable water. Improved electricity also enabled students to study
at night. Improved access roads enabled residents to freely commute to Tirana for work or leisure. In
collaboration with CBOs and local government, the project played a catalytic role in establishing social
infrastructure such as kindergartens, community centers, and schools. From the beneficiaries' own
perceptions, the project helped these informal settlements integrate with the formal parts of the Greater
Tirana Urban Area. The infrastructure investments had psychological impacts as well as tangible
economic benefits.

Methodologies for Formalizing Informal Settlements.The project established replicable procedures that
can be used in regularizing informal settlements, as summarized below:

   l Community Based Organizations (CBOs). Typically, residents in informal settlements are
         internal migrants from the northeastern mountain areas, and within their communities they form
         some informal and exclusive groups based on their places of origin. The first step towards
         regularization is to establish a single CBO to become a counterpart to the local and central
         government and participate in the process of developing urban plans and subsequent
         infrastructure investment.

   l Rights-of-Way. In general, there was no defined right-of-way in informal settlements, and
         residents freely encroached on public land. With close support from the NGOs assigned to the



                                                   - 5 -

             areas and the local government teams, the CBOs were encouraged to find a way to coordinate
             among community residents to adjust their encroachments in order to ensure right-of-way for
             future infrastructure investment.

       l Investment Prioritization and Beneficiary Contribution. The project also introduced
             participatory methods in prioritizing infrastructure investments, and in making up-front
             financial contributions. These methods were considered effective in preventing vandalism after
             completion of the investments.

       l Confirming Occupancy. Upon completion of the sub-projects, the project helped residents
             prepare evidence to justify their occupancy. It was found that many residents had retained
             documentation of the land transactions. While title registration was not possible at the time
             (and to this date) due to the absence of a legal framework for legalizing informal settlements,
             these documents were systematically recorded as preliminary registrations and stored in the
             local government archives to facilitate formal registration in the future.

   Reducing Illegal Connections. Illegal connections to water and electricity are common in informal
   settlements where no services have been offered. Rampant illegal connections not only jeopardize the
   utility firm's operations the financially, but they also incur serious repair costs. Through infrastructure
   investments, the project also demonstrated the importance of having formal agreements with the utility
   providers. The project formalized about 530 electricity connections in Lapraka, and 1,000 water
   connections in Bathore.


4.2 Outputs by components:
    Overall project outputs are rated satisfactory.

    Component 1: Extension of Essential Infrastructure Networks
    The project financed the upgrading of 19 urban areas in 7 municipalities comprising about 8,300
    hectares through the provision of primary and secondary infrastructure networks, enabling the
    provision of basic services for water, drainage, roads, electricity, and street lighting.

    Originally, the project targeted secondary and tertiary networks in neglected and/or underserviced areas
    for investment. However, during implementation, it was revealed that many parts of the primary
    infrastructure networks in the urban areas were dilapidated due to rapid urbanization and long-term
    neglect. It became clear that substantial investment for upgrading primary infrastructure networks
    would be needed to optimize the performance of secondary and tertiary networks. Among all
    subprojects, the achievements in the Bathore area (Bathore Pilot, 2, 3 and 4) are noteworthy.

    Originally, the project envisaged extending water supply networks from the western part of Tirana to
    Bathore. However, during implementation, the existing primary networks were found to be too
    dilapidated to provide adequate service to Bathore. The rapid growth of informal settlements at the site
    had been compounded by the influx of a large number of refugees from the Kosovo conflict in 1999,
    and the lack of water had precipitated a major social and political crisis. In consultation with the
    Government, the European Commission Humanitarian Office (ECHO) provided approximately US$2.0
    million to develop a new 2.0 kilometer primary water network from the newly established Buvilla
    Reservoir located next to the sites. However, construction work on the network was suspended shortly
    after it began due to rampant illegal connections made by residents living in upstream informal
    settlements not covered by the project. Since ECHO's financial resources were depleted, the



                                                       - 6 -

Government decided to use project funds to finance the repair works to ECHO's primary network, as
well as connections with the new secondary networks financed under the project. In the meantime, the
project area was extended to include the upstream informal settlements. These works were carried out
in collaboration with CBOs in order to prevent further damage. In addition, through the project, the
Government transferred operational responsibility for the water supply networks to Kamza
Municipality, which committed to operating and managing them under its own municipal water
company. To-date, the Municipality has fully taken over operations and has already started providing
2,000 families with water services. The project has also provided major drainage and sewage networks
for Bathore and Kamza, which will eventually benefit 5,000 families.

Component 2: Institutional Development
A technical assistance package was contracted to an international consultant to support mainly: (a)
preparation of subprojects; and (b) strategic infrastructure planning and programming for Greater
Tirana. With regard to (a) subproject preparation, terms of references and a design manual were
prepared and continually refined as the project progressed. With reference to (b), a series of studies
were carried out to assess the infrastructure investment and its financing needs over 5 and 10 years.
The findings of these studies were incorporated into the "Greater Tirana Strategic Infrastructure Plan"
(the Plan), which was presented to the National Council of Territorial Adjustment, the highest authority
in approving territorial plans. To date, discussion is still on-going among the Municipality of Tirana,
the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and the National Planning Institute due to divergent views on the
final approval. Nevertheless, the Plan has raised interest in and the credibility of the project among
relevant stakeholders, and later triggered a request by the Municipality of Tirana for assistance in
regulatory planning, and another request from the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment for formulating a
National Urban Strategy.

In addition to the above, this component financed contracts with the local NGOs to support the
beneficiaries. Their support included: (i) information dissemination and organizing the CBOs; (ii) a
rapid socioeconomic survey and preparation of concept plans for project areas; and, (iii) liaison
between the CBOs and local governments to ensure timely implementation and to help the residents
resolve a variety of community issues such as right-of-way and the collection of beneficiary
contributions. The role of NGOs changed during the life of the project. In the beginning, one NGO
was assigned per area and was intensively involved in persuading people to participate. As the project
progressed and expanded geographically, the role of NGOs changed to training municipality staff. A
pilot study on preliminary registration of informal settlements was also financed under this component.

Component 3: Project Administration and Management Support
(a) Institutional Support. This sub-component mainly financed staffing of the PCU established within
the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism (originally Ministry of Public Works) and Project
Management Teams (PMTs) in the Municipality of Tirana and District of Tirana (which later changed
its jurisdiction and name to the Region of Tirana). The staffing arrangements evolved as the project
expanded geographically. While the Project Management Team (PMT) for Tirana region remained
within its geographical boundary, the PMT for Tirana Municipality merged with the PCU after the
Mid-Term Review in 2002, in order to strengthen the PCU in dealing with municipalities outside
Tirana and to provide support on other technical assistance activities (e.g., Strategic Plan).
Concurrently, the procurement function was also centralized in the PCU in order to accelerate
processing.

(b) Detailed Design and Construction Supervision. While the PCU and the PMTs were responsible for
project management, local consultants were contracted under this sub-component to ensure timely and


                                                 - 7 -

    quality implementation of civil works. The interaction between the consultants and the specialists from
    the PCU and the Bank served as an on-the-job learning opportunity. As the project progressed, a
    group of civil engineers emerged who developed a good understanding of the project's participatory
    concept and the required standards for construction supervision, an aspect of implementation that had
    not existed before the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The main benefits of the project were increased productivity and amenities, resulting from new or improved
access to urban infrastructure services. The project also induced better economic use of land through
densification and the emergence of private businesses. In addition, in retrospect, the project also produced
significant social benefits resulting from the integration of informal communities in peri-urban areas.

In this ICR, an economic analysis, taking into account the above mentioned factors, was carried out for
Bathore, where the project made substantial investments (approximately US$4.5 million). In principle, the
analysis adopted a framework of an economic model that was developed at appraisal, but with updated
assumptions. In the process, secondary benefits resulting from investments in primary infrastructure
networks were included. In summary, the estimated economic rate of return is 31.6%, justifying the
investment a posteriori. The assumptions applied and the outcome of the analysis are described in Annex
3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    Overall institutional development impacts were moderate. While the project made significant impacts
    at the community and local government level, it has not been fully effective in supporting the central
    government's development of critical institutional and policy development change with regard to urban
    land management.

    At the community level, the project contributed substantially to developing cohesive and responsive
    urban communities in the informal settlements. Through establishment of CBOs, and improvement of
    infrastructure services, residents have gradually gained the sense of being a part of Greater Tirana.
    The amount of vandalism and number of illegal connections to public facilities (including
    infrastructure) has fallen dramatically. In addition, the project played a catalytic role in organizing
    youth and women's groups within the project areas, which have become advocates for community
    improvement through participation.

    Similarly, the institutional development impacts on the participating municipalities can be considered
    significant. The project's impacts were mainly gaining hands-on experience with a participatory model
    of urban planning and infrastructure investment. This model has been replicated by the municipalities
    in both informal settlements and formal ones in inner-city areas. Strategic infrastructure investment
    planning has also helped the municipalities understand the importance of planning infrastructure
    investment in response to current and forecast demographic trends. In addition, the municipalities have
    learned the concept of 'integrated urban upgrading', which provides neglected communities with a
    comprehensive package of urban and social infrastructure through coordinating the concerned
    departments of the Municipalities and utility companies.

    On the other hand, the project was not fully effective in supporting the institutional and policy
    development at the central government level, due mainly to political and social pressures. The



                                                      - 8 -

    Government was not able to develop a strategy to legalize land tenure in the informal settlements,
    although it has provided residents with some assurance on the security of land tenure. The project was
    also not able to support the development of institutions and policies to regularize land tenure in the
    informal settlements. These issues remain as major challenges for future operations in the urban
    sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
      During the early stages of project implementation, the Kosovo crisis erupted (from March to
      December 1999). During this period, an estimated 600,000 refugees flooded into Albania, most of
      whom settled temporarily in the urban areas and were hosted by Albanian families. This
      phenomenon had considerable impact on project implementation. For example, implementation was
      delayed because the Government was not able to organize a meeting of the National Council for the
      Territorial Adjustment, which was required to approve the urban plans for informal settlements.
      Bathore hosted an estimated 2,000-3,000 refugees during this period, which created a water supply
      crisis, eventually leading to serious damage to the primary water networks financed by ECHO (refer
      to Section 4.2).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
      The following are the major factors affecting implementation and outcome:

          Effectiveness delay. The project took more than 6 months to become effective. This was because
          the Government decided to prepare and present to the Parliament the draft law to recognize
          Bathore and Lapraka as an urban area and protect the land tenure of residents in informal
          settlements by excluding these areas from restitution claims by original land owners. While at
          negotiations, it was confirmed that the Council of the Ministers' decision would be adequate, the
          Government took a more conservative approach, considering the social impacts. The
          Government also decided to provide the original land owners with monetary compensation as an
          alternative, and incorporated this into the law. However, preparation of the law and its
          discussion in Parliament took longer than expected, delaying a consensus on supporting the
          upgrading of informal settlements.

          Frequent changes of the administration at the MoTAT significantly slowed project
          implementation. This occurred because it took a considerable amount of time for each
          administration to come to terms with the project's overriding concept of comprehensive
          community-driven urban upgrading, which was different from `conventional' infrastructure
          investment projects such as water and transport.

          Lengthy administrative approvals of technical designs. The urban concept plans as well as
          infrastructure designs had to be approved by several local and national authorities (such as local
          and national councils of territorial adjustment), concerned municipalities and utility companies
          (e.g., KESH), as well as the concerned department of the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and
          Tourism (MoTAT). In the early stages of the project, implementation was delayed due to the
          slow, drawn out administration of the technical designs, which in turn often led to the
          participating communities losing confidence in the project and delaying the collection of
          community contributions. However, the situation improved substantially over the last two years
          of implementation, due chiefly to the initiative taken by the municipalities in conjunction with the
          decentralization program.



                                                     - 9 -

          Weak and vacillating stance of the Government with regard to the legalization of informal
          settlements hindered the project's effectiveness in preparing legal and institutional frameworks
          for the regularization and registration of informal settlements. Along with the Poverty Reduction
          Structural Credit (PRSC), the Bank team continued a policy dialogue with the Government on
          the following points: (a) early closure of restitution claims (the Law kept open the deadline for
          restitution claims); (b) compensation guidelines for properties affected by restitution claims; and
          (c) enactment of laws on regularizing informal settlements. The Law on Land Regularization and
          Appropriation was adopted, but it may be difficult to implement due to the lack of detailed
          implementation guidelines (such as valuation).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
      The strong commitment of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) should be noted in enabling an
      overall satisfactory outcome of the project, despite all the difficulties summarized above. The scope
      of the PCU's work was substantial. In addition to the normal fiduciary tasks and construction design
      and supervision, the PCU had to: facilitate the organization of CBOs; develop coordination between
      municipalities and CBOs for designing urban plans; prepare technical documents; coordinate with
      concerned public entities such as municipalities and utility companies; prepare a number of civil
      works contracts and documents for the National Territorial Adjustment Council. The PCU also
      played the role of interlocutor between communities (CBOs), local government, and the MoTAT in
      establishing a model of participatory upgrading.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    There was no financing issue with regard to the implementation of the project. The Government
    always provided counterpart funds in an adequate and timely manner.               The project adopted a
    sub-project approach; therefore, the scope and coverage of the project were adjusted according to the
    available resources. Upon completion, seven eligible communities were not able to get financing from
    the project.

    On the financing side, the major changes after appraisal included: (a) parallel financing with ECHO
    (US$2.0 million) for a primary water supply network in Bathore (refer to Section 4.1); (b) a decrease
    in community contributions (from an estimated US$4.15 million to approximately US$2.5 million);
    and (c) new financing by the participating municipalities (approximately US$150,000). In line with the
    other IDA and internationally funded projects (appraised after this project), it was agreed that half of
    the community contribution could be paid by the concerned municipalities in order to strengthen the
    partnership between the communities and municipalities. The larger-than-expected investment needed
    for primary infrastructure (actual US$4.8 million compared to the estimated US$1.0 million), for
    which communities were not required to contribute, is also attributable to the decrease in community
    contributions.

    On the component-wise expenditures, costs for infrastructure works (Component A) increased slightly
    (US$7.8 million actual vs. US$7.1 million estimated) due to the large investment needs for the primary
    networks (refer to Section 4.1). Costs for Component C increased from the appraisal estimate of
    US$0.8 million to US$1.6 million due to the following factors: (a) larger operating costs due to a
    12-month extension, (b) extensive need for local NGO support, particularly during the initial stages of
    the project, and (c) establishment of a specialized project team at the Municipality of Tirana.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:



                                                     - 10 -

   The project impacts are very likely to be sustainable.

   The project investments based on priorities established by the residents have given a high level of
   satisfaction. Subprojects went through an extensive community participation process, and the rapid
   social survey (February 2005) clearly indicated a sense of ownership of the investment by the
   communities, and a great willingness to maintain the infrastructure. All infrastructure such as water,
   sewerage, drainage and electricity was transferred to the concerned municipalities and/or public utility
   companies to ensure proper operation.         As a result, the major threat to the sustainability of
   infrastructure in Albania - vandalism by communities - has been greatly reduced.

   The survey also indicated that the residents in the project areas felt more secure of their land tenure and
   there is a rising sense of social cohesion in the upgraded communities. As mentioned in Section 4.1,
   informal land transactions have been taking place, and densification has been occurring. Without doubt,
   the project contributed to the establishment of responsive urban communities and to the eventual
   development of a formal land/housing market.

   However, in order to fully consolidate the project's impacts, the challenge remains with the central
   government and municipalities. The Government has to prepare practical documents setting out the
   norms and guidelines for implementing Land Regularization and Appropriation. In view of the on-going
   decentralization process, tenure regularization is a critical step in establishing a tax base for local
   governments and better management of urban development.

   Municipalities need to develop and enforce an appropriate urban regulatory plan in order to guide
   private investment and prevent further development of informal settlements in peri-urban zones. During
   the final two years of project implementation, the municipalities have become aware of the importance
   of urban regulatory plans.      As the next step, the Government supports preparation of an urban
   regulatory plan for Tirana with the assistance of the Government of the Netherlands. Similar exercises
   should is planned to be expanded to other important municipalities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Now that the project is completed, the Government is keen to apply the same approach used in the project
to expand infrastructure coverage to other urban areas such as Greater Tirana and other important
secondary cities. The on-going technical assistance program for preparing and implementing Tirana Urban
Regulatory Plan will continue even after completion of the project, and it is expected that the
community-upgrading, infrastructure investment and regulatory planning activities embodied in the project
will continue after project completion and become a model for other municipalities. This approach will
assist in the transition from an urban management legacy based on static and physical urban plans to urban
planning built on a dynamic process that accepts the socio-economic dimension of urban development.

In order to fully realize the potential of the model and systems that the project created, there are still
challenges for the central government and municipalities to overcome, as mentioned above. In addition, the
transition process should go hand-in-hand with the on-going decentralization process. With the adoption of
the laws on decentralization in 2000, the Government made a political decision to decentralize
administrative and fiscal decisions, and the bones of institutional and legal framework have been put in
place. However, the implementation of policy reforms is experiencing delay, mainly due to the weak
capacity at both central and local government levels and institutional bottlenecks. In this regard, additional
funding will be required to support both the central government and municipalities in building capacity,
elaborating policy frameworks for better urban management, and expanding coverage to other urban and
peri-urban areas deficient in basic infrastructure. The Government has requested a follow-up project on



                                                    - 11 -

urban development, and the Bank expressed its willingness to consider continuing its support for
community upgrading and development of urban and social infrastructure to cope with the rapid
urbanization.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall performance of the Bank in lending is rated moderately satisfactory. The overall project objective
was consistent with the higher objectives stipulated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and the
project design incorporated the lessons from the Housing Project to focus public financing on infrastructure
investment for neglected urban areas. Participatory principles were developed in a practical manner
through intensive collaboration with local and international NGOs.

However, as stated in Section 3.5, the Bank team could have elaborated more on the consistency between
the project objectives and monitoring indicators. Some of the proposed indicators do not necessarily
correspond to the development objectives and are not measurable.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. Given the strong distrust among residents of
informal settlements in any government intervention, the task team carried out intensive supervision,
particularly during the first three years of implementation, with an emphasis on building trust among
beneficiaries and introducing the participatory mechanism. The team also provided the Government with
timely advice on critical issues. For example, when the investments in water supply in Bathore came to a
standstill due to the lack of financing for repairs to the damaged primary networks and institutional
bottlenecks, the team assisted the Government by organizing a meeting inviting all concerned utility
companies and the ministerial departments in order to resolve the institutional issues and to prevent further
damage to the primary networks. For electricity in Lapraka, the team helped the Government negotiate
with KESH (state electricity company) on providing meters and cables, which were in short supply
nationwide. The Bank team also played a catalytic role in obtaining additional resources for supporting
informal settlement needs other than physical infrastructure. For example, in 2000, a Japanese Social
Development Fund (JSDF) grant of US$180,000 was awarded for strengthening youth and women's groups
and building social infrastructure.

The emphasis on supervision gradually shifted to more strategic issues such as facilitation of a dialogue
among related local governments and the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism on a strategic
investment plan for Greater Tirana, and participation in a policy dialogue on land regularization and
decentralization.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Through preparation and implementation, the Bank
team was continuously engaged in intensive monitoring as well as timely advice on both project
implementation and policy development.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory. In response to the policy advice from
IDA, the Government shifted its focus from housing operation to support for informal settlements, and took
an active role in preparing the project. As a major effectiveness condition, the Government duly facilitated
the passage of a law to recognize Bathore and Lapraka as urban areas, and to protect the informal



                                                    - 12 -

settlements in Bathore and Lapraka from possible future restitution claims which could have been
submitted utilizing a loophole in the Restitution Law. Since the Government was not able to amend
the Law on Restitution because of political and social pressure, this was considered to be the
second best solution.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory.            The Borrower provided full
counterpart funding throughout the implementation of the project. The policy dialogue with the Bank was
also carried out smoothly. In 2001, the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and Tourism organized a
workshop inviting mayors from key municipalities to expand the project all over the country. In 2002, the
Prime Minister approved the urban design in Bathore, expressed the Government's view on the
regularization carried out under the project, and discussed the prospects for future legalization on informal
settlements.

However, it should be noted that there were some issues that caused implementation delays, as stated in
Sections 5.2 and 5.3. At the early stages of project implementation, the Government was not able to
process the technical documents in a timely fashion due mainly to administrative procedures. Collaboration
between various utility companies, particularly electricity and water, turned out to be time-consuming, as
this was the first comprehensive urban upgrading project in the country. Moreover, frequent changes in the
government caused delay in implementation. Nevertheless, the Government gradually learned lessons and
demonstrated its full commitment by accelerating implementation of the project. The closing date of the
project was extended by 12 months, and the credit was fully disbursed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout project implementation, the
PCU played a catalytic role in raising awareness among government officials on informal settlements.
Staffed with young but fully qualified and motivated professionals with intensive education on urban
development in European countries, the PCU was active in local meetings by linking community residents
with local governments, processing administrative actions for regularizing informal settlements, and
coordinating with local NGOs to improve legal frameworks for eventual legalization of informal
settlements.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory. In spite of the frequent changes in the
administration of MoTAT, and the consequential delays in project implementation, the Borrower remained
committed to the project's development objectives and its approach.         During the final two years of
implementation, ministerial continuity at MoTAT helped accelerate project implementation, together with
the participating municipalities. To date the credit is fully disbursed and the project's investments are
complete.

8. Lessons Learned

In principle, the project design, i.e., upgrading neglected urban areas in the short-term and preparing a
long-term infrastructure investment plan is sound and valid. However, the project revealed the limits of the
community-based approach to addressing broader urban development and management issues. Future
operations should consider the following lessons to make project impacts more sustainable and replicable.

Combining Local Government Capacity Building with Community Participation: The project was not
able to support the local governments' ability to improve their regulatory functions nor service delivery as



                                                    - 13 -

envisaged, although it certainly helped the municipalities learn participatory infrastructure investment
planning. Given the current decentralization process, the municipalities need technical assistance on all
fronts in municipal operations such as resource management, infrastructure planning and operation, social
service delivery and urban management. For the project to scale up its impact, a participatory investment
program should be combined with a comprehensive support and capacity building program for
municipalities. Future operations should expand from narrowly defined community-based infrastructure
development to broader municipal operations. Particular attention should be given to strengthening urban
regulatory functions, e.g., preparation of urban plans and definition of building permit procedures, all of
which aim to promote, guide, regulate, and support private sector development.

Infrastructure Investment to Combine Primary and Secondary Networks to Address Deficiencies:
The project originally aimed at improving well-being in neglected communities through community-based
infrastructure investment. While the urban population has tripled during the last 10 years in almost all key
municipalities, no coordinated efforts have been made by the Government or donors to comprehensively
upgrade and rehabilitate the primary infrastructure networks such as electricity, drainage, solid waste, and
access roads. Consequently, the pressure on some existing infrastructure networks has passed the critical
point beyond which municipalities can deliver reliable services, even to formal communities.            Any
follow-up projects should have a substantially larger component for upgrading primary infrastructure.

Integrating Youth Group and Social Infrastructure in municipal investments: It is also important for
future projects to focus more on youth and women's groups, particularly in informal settlements. Special
attention should be given to investment in social infrastructure (e.g. schools, kindergartens, parks,
community centers) to allow full benefits of upgrading informal settlements to youth and women.

Land Tenure: Project experience made it clear that land tenure issues in peri-urban areas are complex,
and involve serious social and political implications. A study carried out under the project found ten
different types of informal settlements depending on the degree of `informality' (such as current zoning,
ownership, land with disputes between owners and occupants, etc.), and that for each type, the path for
legalization is different. While land tenure and land registration in the urban and peri-urban areas remain a
big issue, it is not within the jurisdiction of the municipalities, and there may be a need for a separate
project specifically focusing on land tenure and land registration.

Project Management to be integrated in the existing administrative structure: The project was mainly
implemented by the PCU established within MoTAT and by participating municipalities. The PCU staff in
particular have developed into a competent and capable unit whose skills must not be lost or diluted. It is
advisable therefore that the unit be absorbed into MoTAT, preferably in the Department of Urban
Planning. These staff would contribute to the Department by: (a) providing municipalities with technical
support and mentoring for implementing decentralization and promoting participatory urban management
for informal settlements in general, and (b) assisting in developing the documents necessary to implement
the Law on Land Recognition and Appropriation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is a summary of the Report compiled by the Borrower. The report is in the Project Files.

The project was designed in 1997 to address acute urban problems; e.g., the rapid increase in informal
settlements in peri-urban areas, mainly in Greater Tirana, and subsequent issues such as social
disintegration and lack of access to essential infrastructure. In retrospect, the project had considerable



                                                    - 14 -

physical, social, and economic impacts as summarized below:

       l The project provided 8,300 families with essential infrastructure such as water, electricity,
            sewerage and drainage, and was eventually expanded to eight municipalities. In addition,
            considerable benefits have materialized through investment in primary infrastructure.

       l The project played an important catalytic role in socially and physically integrating informal
            settlements.    Also, in collaboration with the project, the Government provided social
            infrastructure facilities, such as schools and health clinics, in the informal settlement areas.

       l The project contributed to establishing an effective model for regularization and infrastructure
            investment in informal settlements through the participation of the communities and
            development of partnerships between communities and municipalities.

       l The project developed a new approach to urban development planning, responding to
            demographic changes and subsequent infrastructure needs, rather than a normative and rigid
            `master plan' approach.

   Consequently, it can be clearly seen that the informal settlements in Bathore and Lapraka have been
   socially and economically integrated into the formal urban area in Greater Tirana.

   It should be noted that the project staff as well as the Bank team made considerable efforts to complete
   the project in a satisfactory manner. At inception, there were tremendous difficulties due to serious
   deficiencies in regard to infrastructure services, the utility providers' focus being on the formal areas.
   Residents in the informal settlements, mainly settlers from the northeastern part of the country, had a
   considerable degree of distrust of the government as well as the municipalities, resulting from the
   collapse of the past socialist regime. The collapse of the financial pyramid scheme in 1997 had also
   negatively influenced the implementation of the project, as the residents became skeptical about the
   legitimacy of their own financial contribution to the project.

   Upon completion, there are still outstanding urban challenges needing urgent attention:

       l Land Tenure and Regularization. It is very important to legalize the informal settlements and
            give residents the security of land tenure that they seek.       As a first step, the Law on Land
            Recognition and Appropriation was adopted in July 2004; however, detailed implementation
            norms such as valuation methods need to be prepared in order to implement the law.

       l Need to Upscale the Project.          The project successfully extended access to infrastructure in
            Greater Tirana; however, there are a number of similar informal settlements in large secondary
            cities such as Durres and Elbasan, and there is an urgent need to carry out similar interventions
            in these cities.

       l Integrated Urban Management.            As the rate of informal settlement growth slows down,
            emphasis should be shifted from an `emergency' operation to a more `strategic and capacity
            building' one to ensure long-term sustainability of urban management. It is clear that, in
            conjunction with the on-going decentralization, local governments need significant amounts of
            technical assistance ranging from resource management, public administration, social service
            delivery, urban planning and regulation, and infrastructure management.




                                                     - 15 -

        l Infrastructure Investment.       Lastly, it should be noted that there are massive needs for
             infrastructure investment for the key municipalities. Most of these municipalities have tripled
             their populations since the early 1990s; however, no significant investment has been made in a
             coordinated way to upgrade primary infrastructure networks as well as secondary ones. In
             particular, urgent investment for solid and liquid waste management is needed to prevent
             irreversible environmental damage.

    It would be of considerable benefit to Albania if the Bank continued to address these new challenges,
    through a possible new urban project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The following comments were provided by an Albanian NGO "Co-Plan". Co-Plan was one of the key
NGOs involved in the project from the preparation stage through the first two years of implementation.

"In addition to providing basic infrastructure to unserviced or neglected areas, the project also aimed at
providing a road map for regularization of informal settlements. However, while the government supported
that part of the project that focused on infrastructure improvements, it failed to follow the approach the
project was proposing towards the regularization of informal settlements. This negligence is reflected by
the recently approved law on "legalization and regularization", which did not make use of the experience
accumulated by the project.

Because of the above, the project remains isolated and will not have a broader impact with regard to the
overall urban management challenges the country is facing. Nevertheless, the project has accumulated
substantial experience so that, when put in a larger context, assuming political will is in place, it can really
contribute to major, country-wide reform in the field of urban planning and management as well as
territorial administration.

At this point, any future intervention should be considered: (a) on a macro scale, and (b) as a direct
intervention at the local level. The current project could not fully involve local government in project
design and implementation due to inadequate capacity in the local governments.                Now, any new
intervention, along with the overall reform, should be demand-oriented and institutionalize local ownership
in project formulation and implementation.

In regard to community participation, the project made serious efforts and managed to have meaningful
community participation through the CBOs. Creation of a model where communities act in order to
improve the urban quality of life is one of the positive outcomes of the project. Nevertheless, local
governments should now take the lead in institutionalizing this practice and initiating similar processes
where community participation is not a goal in itself, but rather a democratic instrument that enables key
stakeholders to enter into a constructive dialogue where roles and responsibilities are clearly defined."

10. Additional Information

None




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Impact 1: Decrease in illegal connections and Lapraka: Electricity 470; Bathore Pilot:    Lapraka: About 530 families with formal
a shift to more formal connections ( % of     Sewer 170; Bathore Pilot, 2,3: Water supply electricity connection.
beneficiary population established tertiary   1800                                        Bathore Pilot: Sewer 2000
connection)                                                                               Bathore Pilot,2,3: More than 1,000 families
                                                                                          switched from illegal to formal connections.
Impact 2: Improved access to essential
infrastructure

- number of communities requesting            Mainly in Greater Tirana Area               19 communities in 8 local goverments* (3
participation in the project                                                              from Greater Tirana, 5 from outside Greater
                                                                                          Tirana)
Impact 3: Enhanced productivity through
urban land development and rational land use

- number of houses under construction and
built per hectare of land developed                                                       Lapraka
                                                                                          At appraisal, 3.6 houses/hectare
                                                                                          At EOP, 4.5 houses/hectare

                                                                                          Bathore Pilot
                                                                                          At appraisal, 5.4 houses/hectare
                                                                                          At EOP, 14.7 houses/hectare
- population density in developed sites
                                              172 persons/hectare                         109.3 persons/hectare on average for the
                                                                                          entire project area

                                                                                          Lapraka
                                                                                          At appraisal,79 persons/hectare
                                                                                          At EOP, 87 persons/hectare

                                                                                          Bathore
                                                                                          At appraisal, 62 persons/hectare
                                                                                          At EOP, 69 persons/hectare

- market price of land per m2
                                              US$44                                       Lapraka
                                                                                          At appraisal, US$3
                                                                                          At EOP, US$20-30

                                                                                          Bathore
                                                                                          At appraisal, US$19
                                                                                          At EOP, US$30-50

- market price of completed houses
                                                                                          Lapraka
                                                                                          At appraisal, US$16,000
                                                                                          At EOP, US$20,000-30,000

                                                                                          Bathore
                                                                                          At appraisal, US$8460
                                                                                          At EOP, US$37,000-50,000

-Right of way established in informal
settlements (hectares) through National       Bathore:150 hectares                        Bathore: 170 hectares
Council of Territorial Adjustment




Impact 4: Cost recovery and participation




                                                                 - 17 -

- percentage contribution to urban         20 percent (informal), 10 percent (formal)  Average: 5.3%;
infrastructure by beneficiaries                                                        Inside Greater Tirana
                                                                                       - Bathore Pilot (informal): 3%;
                                                                                       - Lapraka (informal): 7%
                                                                                       - Blok Partizani (formal): 4%

                                                                                       Outside Greater Tirana
                                                                                       - Kavaja (Outside Tirana, formal): 10%;
                                                                                       - Vlore (Outside Tirana, informal): 7%
Impact 5: Stronger based built for
regularization of urban land in informal
settlements

No. of households participating in the     6,933 households (31,200 persons)           8,316 households (40,280 persons)
sub-projects

*Greater Tirana Area: Municipalities of Tirana and Kamza, Region of Tirana. Area outside Grater Tirana: Fier,
Librazhed, Kavaja, Kucove, and Vlore.
Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of civil works contracted           None specified at appraisal.                43
Number of areas developed                  181 hectares                                368.4 hectares




1End of project




                                                             - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       Appraisal           Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                        Estimate             Estimate              Appraisal
                           Component                                  US$ million           US$ million
1. Extension of Infrastructure Networks                                   11.10                   11.84                     87
2. Institutional Development                                                1.25                   1.75                    140
3. Project Administration Support                                           0.79                   1.66                    210

Total Baseline Cost                                                       13.14                   15.25
 Physical Contingencies                                                     1.61                   0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                        1.13                   0.00
                             Total Project Costs                          15.88                   15.25
                     Total Financing Required                             15.88                   15.25


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB                NCB                         2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                               Other
1. Works                                0.00                10.84                0.50                 1.97             13.31
                                        (0.00)             (7.20)               (0.35)              (0.00)             (7.55)
2. Goods                                0.00                0.00                 0.64                 0.00              0.64
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.59)              (0.00)             (0.59)
3. Services                             0.00                0.00                 1.78                 0.00              1.78
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)               (1.78)              (0.00)             (1.78)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00                 0.15                 0.00              0.15
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.08)              (0.00)             (0.08)
   Total                                0.00                10.84                3.07                 1.97             15.88
                                        (0.00)             (7.20)               (2.80)              (0.00)            (10.00)
The original table in the PAD indicated US$15.43 million , due to miscalculation in NCB.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                 ICB                NCB                        2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                               Other
1. Works                                0.00                9.65                0.00                2.20              11.85
                                        (0.00)             (7.18)              (0.00)              (0.00)             (7.18)
2. Goods                                0.17                0.00                0.07                0.00              0.24
                                        (0.17)             (0.00)              (0.06)              (0.00)             (0.23)
3. Services                             1.34                0.00                1.18                                  2.52
                                        (1.34)             (0.00)              (1.17)                 ()              (2.51)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00                0.00                0.64                0.00              0.64
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.50)              (0.00)             (0.50)
   Total                                1.51                9.65                1.89                2.20              15.25
                                        (1.51)             (7.18)              (1.73)              (0.00)            (10.42)
NBF for works includes: (a) ECHO financed primary networks in Bathore, and (b) tertiary networks carried out by households.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

                                                        - 19 -

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component/1 (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
      Component/1                       Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   Bank          Govt.          CoF.           Bank           Govt.          CoF.       Bank  Govt.   CoF.
1. System Rehabilitation           7.82           1.64           4.15          7.18            1.95          2.71       91.8  118.9    65.3
2. Institutional Support           1.38           0.00           0.00          1.73            0.02          0.00       125.4  0.0     0.0
3. Project Administration          0.80           0.07           0.00          1.52            0.07          0.07       190.0 100.0    0.0

   1/ Including physical and price contingencies
   2/ Total figures for appraisal and actual are slightly different from the figures in the first table due to round up.
   3/ CoF for actual includes (a) ECHO financed primary networks in Bathore (US$2.0 million), and (b) tertiary networks carried
   out by households ( estimated US$0.2 million).




                                                                   - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Analysis. The economic impacts of the project are difficult to measure. First, the main benefits
of the project are increased productivity and amenities resulting from new or improved access to urban
infrastructure services.   Such services include access roads, water supply, electricity, sewerage and
drainage. Furthermore, the project induced better economic use of land through densification and the
emergence of private businesses. In addition, the project had significant social benefits resulting from the
integration of informal communities in peri-urban areas.

The project also had considerable externalities, mainly resulting from investment in primary infrastructure
networks, which provided larger areas with improved services.

In this ICR, an economic analysis was carried out for Bathore, where the project made substantial
investment (approximately US$4.5 million), considering the above-mentioned factors. In principle, the
analysis adopted an economic model developed at appraisal, and updated the assumptions. However, in
doing so, attention was given to incorporating secondary benefits resulting from investment in primary
infrastructure networks. The following is a summary of the assumptions.

Cost
   l A standard conversion factor (SCF) for each type of utility works was estimated, considering the
         portion of imported goods (materials, machinery), local goods, and skilled and unskilled labor. For
         example, the SCF is estimated to be 0.97 and 0.91 for electricity works and drainage/sewerage
         works respectively. Cost flow was derived from the actual progress, including the US$2.0 million
         investment made by ECHO (European Community Humanitarian Office).

Benefit
   l Direct Benefits. Similar to the appraisal, for 13.5 hectares in Bathore I subproject, land prices (per
         m2) was used as a proxy to capture all the project benefits (resulting from regularization, land
         tenure security, and infrastructure investment), assuming that the land prices reflect true
         opportunity costs. The scenario was updated for both with- and without-project cases so as to
         isolate the project impacts from other macro factors (e.g., overall land price increase in Tirana
         area).

   l Indirect Benefits.       Conservatively, it was assumed that the project would benefit about 200
         hectares in Tirana. The net benefit would raise the land price in the without-project areas from
         US$15 per m2 to US$18 per m2 over the next 10 years.

Based on these assumptions, the estimated economic rate of return is 31.6%.



                                                  Table 1: Estimated Net Cash Flow
                         1999           2000       2001           2002            2003         2004        2005~2011

            Cost         232750     465500         698250         931000         1163750       1163750         0


           Benefit
            Direct     121500       243000        364500         486000        607500         607500         0
           Indirect       0            0             0              0          450000         900000       900000


         Net Benefit     -111250     -222500      -333750        -445000        -106250       343750       900000



                                                  - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/25/1996                5    Economist (2), Urban Planner
                                             (1), Architect (1), Project Officer
                                             (1)
              10/15/1997                2    Urban Planner (1),Project Officer
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1/19/1998                 4    ECONOMIST (1); URBAN
                                             ENGINNER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              3/23/1998                 2    Economist (1), Urban Planner (1)

 Supervision

              02/16/1999                3    ECONOMIST (1); URBAN                    S               S
                                             ENGINNER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              05/15/1999                3    ECONOMIST (1); CIVIL                    S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1)
              09/25/1999                5    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT                  S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1); SOCIOLOGIST
                                             (1); FMO (1)
              09/25/1999                6    ECONOMIST (1); URBAN                    S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (2)
              05/22/2000                5    TASK TEAM LEADER/ECON                   S               S
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             URBAN PLANNER (2);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT. SPECIA
                                             (1)
              10/12/2000                5    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT                  S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); URBAN
                                             COMMUNITY SP. (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              01/25/2001                5    ECONOMIST (1); PROJECT                  S               S
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); URBAN COMMUNITY SP.
                                             (1)



                                              - 23 -

               05/15/2001              3   ECONOMIST (1); URBAN               S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               08/13/2001              3   ECONOMIST (1); URBAN               S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               12/05/2001              3   TTL, ECONOMIST (1); URBAN          S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           OPERATIONAL ANALYST (1)
               04/26/2002              4   TTL, ECONOMIST (1); URBAN          S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                                           ENGINEER (1);
                                           OPERATIONAL ANALYST (1)
               05/16/2003              4   TTL, SR.ECONOMIST (1);             S    S
                                           URBAN, CDD (1);
                                           CONSULTANT, OPERATIONS
                                           (1); CONSULTANT, URB.ENG.
                                           (1)
               05/17/2004              4   ECONOMIST (1); URBAN               S    S
                                           PLANNER (2); PROJECT
                                           OFFICER (1)
               08/06/2004              4   ECONOMIST (1); URBAN               S    S
                                           PLANNER (2); PROJECT
                                           OFFICER (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           60.40                     223,339.82
  Appraisal/Negotiation                14.10                      55,834.96
  Supervision                          31.50                     125,901.93
  ICR                                  10.00                      45,000.00
  Total                              116.00                      450,076.71




                                            - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (Report No.17694-ALB)
Development Credit Agreement
Aide Memoires
Project Supervision Reports and Back to Office Reports
Quarterly Reports
Borower's Report, April 2005
PADCO - " Strategic Plan for Greater Tirana" , February 2002
Albania Social Services Association-Zeitgeist, " Final Report on NGO Support for Preparation, Design
and Supervision of Social Infrastructure and Community Activities under Japanese Social Development
Fund for Breglumasi Community", March 2002
CO-PLAN-Center for Habitat Development, " Final Report on NGO Support for Preparation, Design and
Supervision of Social Infrastructure and Community Activities in Bathore Site under Japanese Social
Development Fund", July 2002
PADCO, "Final Repot on ULMP Technical Assistance", April 2003
Hermine G. De Soto and Jorida Cila, " Urban Rapid Appraisal: Urbanization, Institution Building, and
Social Inclusion in Bathore 1, 2, 3, and 4 (Rapid Social Impact Assessment)" , March 2005




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

In February-March 2005, a rapid social assessment was conducted to determine the project's impacts,
particularly in terms of changes in perceptions and behaviors. The Bathore area (Bathore Pilot, 2, 3 and 4)
was selected for the assessment since the project's investments mainly focused on this area.             The
assessment combined focus group discussions and individual interviews.

Stakeholders included leaders and staff from Kamza municipality, which Bathore belongs to (the mayor,
urban sector experts, utility sector experts), representatives of NGOs who participated in the project,
representatives of the central government (MoTAT), and the Project staff (PCU and PMTs). In total,
seven focus group discussion sessions were held with ten participants from various segments of the Bathore
areas.  Two additional focus groups were conducted with women and youth.                Another focus group
consisted of local experts and the representative to parliament. Eighteen expert interviews were held with
local government experts, the mayor, community leaders, central government (the line ministry), project
management staff, and NGOs.

The key findings are summarized as below:

    1. Participation of beneficiaries was successful. From the beginning of the project community
        participation was a key element and started with thorough training, systematic focus group
        discussions and formal and informal meetings with stakeholders.             Local NGOs assisted in
        developing the capacity of community associations in planning, implementation, monitoring, and
        maintaining community development activities. NGOs effectively used social capital and assisted
        in making communities more socially cohesive. In particular, decisions and actions regarding
        securing right-of-way were managed by CBOs with the NGOs' help and little involvement of the
        public authorities (e.g., Construction Police, as often seen in the case of non-project areas).
    2. Empowerment of communities through community associations was achieved. CBOs played an
        important role at the beginning of project implementation; the main CBO covered an area of 13
        hectares, and has since then branched out to cover 600 members, with a 75-member assembly.
        The process also led to a creation of CBOs for women and youth, which aimed at empowering
        women and youth for active engagement in community life and decision-making.
    3. Stakeholders' satisfaction with service delivery. Stakeholders are now satisfied with the services
        that the project provided. The water and sewerage systems dramatically improved everyday life in
        the communities. Residents now have a legal water and sewerage system, and public roads were
        opened which improved transportation opportunities, water meters were installed, and the supply of
        potable water improved stakeholders' health. Other communities are hoping a new project will
        come to improve infrastructure-related services in their neighborhoods.
    4. The majority of stakeholders pay for services. The project successfully implemented a community
        co-financing system--the first in Albania's history.          The majority of families paid their
        contributions. About 70-80 percent of the families pay the water bill at the water and sewerage
        enterprise's office within the municipality building.
    5. Satisfaction with increase in land value, dissatisfaction with legalization. Most stakeholders in
        the assessed areas and experts are satisfied with the increase in land value and maintained that land
        value has increased by almost ten-fold. However, they are dissatisfied with the government's
        approach to legalizing land, and that the law passed without noticeable discussions with the
        municipalities and the affected communities. People maintain that they cannot pay based on the
        current market values. The present law is still confusing and not understood by most of the
        stakeholders.
    6. Institutional bottlenecks continue and the need exits for further support. Consultations with


                                                    - 28 -

       experts revealed that the current local-level institutional setup and the connections between
       municipalities and communities are still weak due to the recently introduced reform on
       decentralization. The roles and level of authority in making decisions related to budget and
       provision of services are not yet clearly defined, and the institutional functions are not efficient
       enough. Stakeholder consultation working groups thus recommend that a new IDA project that
       would build on the foundation and the positive accomplishments of the Project is now needed in
       order to focus on the development of: (a) a supportive institutional setting for capacity building;
       (b) capacity building needed for both central and local government administrations; (c) provision of
       technical assistance for municipalities and urban sectors including training for mayors and
       administrative staff; (d) expansion of the coverage of physical urban infrastructure; (e) focus on
       the social inclusion of youth and women; (f) empowerment of the municipalities to develop models
       for urban development that will advance the overall national reform and enhance conformity to the
       urban standards required by the EU accession.

The detailed report is in the project files.




                                                  - 29 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

  The workshop was held on June 8, hosted jointly by the Ministry of Territorial Adjustment and
  Tourism (MoTAT) and the World Bank. The meeting was chaired by the deputy Minister of the
  MoTAT, and was facilitated by a local NGO (Co-Plan). The meeting was attended by representatives
  of the communities (Bathore), local government, and several senior officials from MoTAT responsible
  for urban development.

  The meeting agreed that the project was largely successful, as it has provided essential infrastructure to
  neglected informal settlements in peri-urban areas, and tangibly improved the quality of life for
  residents, especially youth and women (who spend more time at home and thus benefit more from
  infrastructure services to households). It was also agreed that the project took the first steps toward
  eventual legalization of informal settlements, and effectively introduced a participatory method for
  urban development, which has already been replicated in a few municipalities.

  However, the meeting also recognized that the project focused mainly on `crisis-management' by
  providing essential infrastructure in neglected areas. At present, urban land management still faces
  institutional and policy challenges that the project was not able to address. These include:

  At the central government level:

  ·   Urban Strategy. A comprehensive strategy is needed to determine the country's overall policy on
  controlling informal settlements and legalization, enforcement of land use regulations, and resource
  management for urban management (e.g., property taxes). The strategy should lead to a revision of
  major laws (such as the Law on Urban Areas) and regulations.

  ·   Legalization of Informal Settlements.         While the Law on Legalization has been passed,
  implementation will be difficult due to the greater- than-expected complexity of legalization. The
  participants emphasized the need for technical assistance to develop a practical implementation norm
  for the Law.

  At the local level:

  ·   Resource Management.         The municipality participants raised serious concerns regarding the
  scarce resources available for infrastructure development and service delivery. In the Municipality of
  Kamza, located on the outskirts of Tirana, the population increased from 5,000 in 1990 to 90,000 in
  2005, half of which reside in informal settlements. The resources of local governments depend largely
  on central government transfers, and clearly need to be increased, mainly through the introduction of
  property taxes and land development fees, to enable direct contributions of residents to the respective
  local governments.

  ·   Systemic Social and Urban Infrastructure Investment. Infrastructure service delivery to neglected
  urban areas was often constrained by woefully inadequate primary infrastructure. The meeting agreed
  that substantial investment in infrastructure is needed, especially primary infrastructure, in order to
  cope with rapid urbanization. The approach should not focus on a single utility or service (e.g., water,
  transport, etc.), but on comprehensive upgrading, including all urban and social infrastructure,
  especially in neglected areas.

  At the community level:


                                                   - 30 -

·   Capacity Building. The meeting agreed that substantial capacity building is needed to strengthen
the Community Based Organizations (CBOs) to enable them to play a catalytic role in integrating
residents in peri-urban areas (which are often fragmented) and become partners with local
governments. The meeting also agreed that the CBOs' role should be more clearly defined, as some of
the CBOs have already started to act as parallel organizations to local government.

The workshop concluded that a follow-up project, if any, should address the above-mentioned aspects.




                                               - 31 -

- 32 -

