Report No. PIC2387
Project Name                   Albania-Land Development Project (@)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Other Agriculture
Project ID                     ALPA40975
Borrower                       Republic of Albania, Ministry of Public
Works
Implementing Agency            Land Management Task Force
Members:
Ms. Shpresa Leka, Ministry of Public
Works
Tel:   (355-42) 227-73
Fax:   (355-42) 279-40
Ms. Juli Shlakku, Director Urban Planning,
City of Tirana
Tel:   (355-42) 295-85
Fax:   (355-42) 279-45
Mr. Viron Hamzaj, Director, Urban
Planning, District of Tirana;
Tel: (355-42) 221-09
Fax: (355-42) 238-90
Date PID updated               January 24, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       April/May 1997
Project Board Date             September 1997
Country and Sector Background:
1.   The country's transition to a market economy has accelerated
population growth in Albania's major cities, in particular in Tirana.
An acute housing shortage and rapid expansion of informal settlements
have been the result of an annual addition of about 35,000 people during
the past 5 years. An already fragile urban infrastructure system is no
longer able to cope and over 40 percent of Tirana's population are
estimated to have no or highly unsatisfactory access to basic urban
services: water, drainage and sewage, roads, electricity. The
environmental costs of the this pattern of urban growth are mounting and
the Government of Albania as well as the City of Tirana and the District
of Tirana are determined to alleviate these pressures. A twofold
approach is being pursued by the Government: (i) to improve the supply
of trunk infrastructure through rehabilitation and expansion of the
primary networks (water, sewage, roads, electricity) and (ii) to
increase the supply of secondary and tertiary infrastructure in areas
where there is effective demand for such services. The proposed project
will concentrate on (ii).
Objectives:
2.   The objectives of the proposed operation would be:    (a) to supply
basic urban services to stop the rapid growth in the share of population



with no access to such services; (b) to open up land markets in Tirana
through improvements in essential infrastructure; (c) to support
private investment in housing (about 50,000 new houses have been
privately built in Tirana in the past 5 years) through availability of
serviced land; (d) to adapt urban planning principles to the demand for
housing and related services and their affordablity; (e) to involve
beneficiaries in the selection of priority investments and in better
operations and maintenance through cost recovery; (f) to improve
environmental conditions of households.
Description:
3.   The project would have two components
the financing of primary, secondary and tertiary infrastructure
(including roads, water supply, sewerage and drainage, electricity,
street lighting and solid waste collection) in selected areas and
sites of Greater Tirana. Two of such sites have been identified
for detailed evaluation, one within the authority of the City of
Tirana (Lapraka) and one within the authority of the District of
Tirana (Bathore). Bathore is an undeveloped site in the north-west
of Tirana (ca. 6 ha to be developed in phases), where informal
settlements have been growing relatively rapidly in the past two
years. Primary and secondary infrastructure investments will be
required to develop this site. Consultant services may be needed
during project implementation (construction supervision,
monitoring).    Lapraka is a 50 ha site at the outskirts of the City
of Tirana, more densely populated and in need of substantial
upgrading.
the financing of supporting services to strengthen the capacities
in:
urban planning and land management including the creation of
databases (land use, property registration...)
investment selection, preparation, implementation and monitoring;
municipal finance and administration
community partnership programs.
Financing:
4.   Preliminary estimates indicate total project costs of about US$22
million of which US$20 million would finance infrastructure investments
and US$2 million the strengthening of urban planning and management
capacities. An IDA credit of about US$10 million is under consideration.
The beneficiaries would finance an estimated US$3.5 million for the
provision of tertiary infrastructure. The Government may want to ask
interested donors to support the Project in the order of about US$2
million in grants for technical assistance. The remaining US$6.5 million
would be contributed by the Government or possibly, in part, through
donor funds.
-2-



Implementation:
5.   Implementation would be shared between the Ministry of Public Works
as the Borrower of the IDA credit, the Municipality of the City of
Tirana, and the Municipality of the District of Tirana. Project
preparation has been under the leadership of the Land Management Task
Force, whose members represent the government authorities most closely
involved in the implementation of the project. Detailed implementation
arrangements are currently being worked out.
Sustainability:
6.   This project would experiment with different approaches to
traditional urban planning and investment financing. It would emphasize
demand by beneficiaries in the selection of investments on secondary and
tertiary infrastructure rather than elaborate city wide plans. It would
build on the preferences of beneficiaries in deciding on standards for
the end user, affordability and replicability. It would emphasize the
need for intensive communication between authorities and beneficiaries
and direct financial involvement by the latter to enhance the changes of
lasting success; it would experiment with new cost recovery principles
such as land sales, betterment fees, and direct beneficiary
responsibility for the financing of tertiary infrastructure.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:
7.   This would be the first project of its kind in Albania to be
financed by IDA. IDA has financed the Housing Project with a credit of
US$15 million. The project supported the completion of the Government
funded public housing project, which had experienced serious financing
problems and implementation delays as a result of the stabilization
program. All buildings eligible for financing under this program have
been completed and the project is expected to be closed in mid-1997.
IDA has also financed investments in primary infrastructure (water
supply, roads). Physically implementation is generally progressing
well, but cost recovery objectives have proven more difficult to
achieve.
Contact Point:      Margret Thalwitz, Task Manager EC1/2AR
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel. No. (202) 473-2646
Fax No. (202) 473-0816
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 3 -



