Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17694-ALB
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
ALBANIA
FOR AN
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 21. 1998
Infrastruictuire Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 9/30/97)
Currency Unit = Lek
15Oyek = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU         European Union
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FRR        Financial Rate of Return
KESH       Electricity Company of Albania (Abbr. in Albanian)
LMTF       Land Management Task Force
MoPWT    Ministry of Public Works and Transport
NGO        Non-Govemrnmental Organization
NPV        Net Present Value
PCU        Program Coordination Unit
PHRD       Policy and Human Resource Development
PMT        Project Management Team
USAID      US Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Urban Sector Leader: Margret Thalwitz, ECSIN
Team Leader: Toru Konishi, ECSRE



Albania
Urban Land Management Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators.2
B. Strategic Context
I. Sector-related GAS goal supported by the project.3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy.3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components.4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.4
3. Benefits and target population.5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.6
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies.8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design.8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project.9
E. Summary of Project Analyses
I. Economic.9
2. Financial.9
3. Teclmical.II
4. Institutional.II
5. Legal.12
6. Social.12
7. Environmental assessment.13
8. Participatory approach.13
F. Sustainability and Risks
I. Sustainability.14
2. Critical risks.14
3. Possible controversial aspects.15



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Board presentation conditions .......................                                     15
2. Loan effectiveness conditions .......................                                     15
3. Other .......................                                                             15
H. Readiness for Implementation ..............................                                        15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................                                       16
Annexes
Annex 1.        Project Design Summary
Annex 2.        Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.        Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.        Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.        Financial Summary
Annex 6.        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.        Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.        Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.        Documents in Project File
Annex 9.        Socio-Economic Aspects of Project Beneficiaries
Annex 10.       Projection of Tirana's Population and Infrastructure Coverage
Annex 11.       Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 12.       Country at a Glance
Maps            IBRD 28467, 29410, 29411, 29412



Albania
Urban Land Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Country Departinent VII
Date: April 21. 1998                                    Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Toru Konishi
Country Manager/Director: Amtraud Hartmann              Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: AL-PE-40975   Sector: Urban                 Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmiient Loan          Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ I Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data                     [ I Loan      [x I Credit      [1 Guarantee        II Other [Specifyf
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 7.5 million
Proposed terms:                             [XI  Multicurrency       []  Single currency. specify
Grace period (years): 10             [    Standard Variable   I   Fixed            [ I    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financin  lan (US$ million):
Source                                                  Local               Foreign            Total
Government                                                       1.66                0.05              1.71
IDA                                                             5.77                 4.23             10.00
Project Beneficiaries                                           3.13                 1.02             4.15
Total                                                   10.56                5.30              15.86
Borrower: The Govenmment of Albania
Guarantor: not applicable
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Public Works and Transport
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):            1998        1999        2000    2001    2002   2003    2004
Annual        0.00        1.20       4.08     2.70    0.94   1.08
Cumulative       0.00         1.20       5.28    7.98     8.92  10.00
Project implementation period: June 1998 - September 2003
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/98    Expected closing date: 03/31/2004
OSD PAD Fonn: July 30, 1997



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performiance indicators (see Annex I)
The primary objective of the proposed project is to provide essential urban infrastructure to unserviced
or neglected areas in participating municipalities, including the Municipality of Tirana and the District of
Tirana (Greater Tirana) and strengthen the institutions responsible for the delivery of urban services at the
national and local levels. Investment in roads, water supply, drainage, sewerage, electricity, street lighting and
domestic waste collection, and teclnical assistance to local authorities and participating communities are expected
to lead to:
*  enhanced productivity of Greater Tirana, the country's economic growtlh center and most rapidly
growing urban area:
*   improved environmental living conditions and better health of children;
•   rational use of scarce urban land through the development of active land markets, densification and
control of urban sprawl;
*   improved cost recovery for urban services through beneficiary participation in decision making and
project financing.
The success of the project in meeting these expected outcomes would be measured by the following key
indicators.
(a)    InPut
*  project expenditure for each component (in US$ million)
(b)    Output
* area developed
* volume of civil work executed
* number of individual (or condominium) water, sewer and electricity connections
(c)    Outcome indicators
number of houses under construction and built per hectare of land developed
population density in developed sites
average consumption of water per person in area developed
average cash investment per house
* market price of land per square meter
- market price of completed houses
percentage contribution by beneficiaries to project costs
number of communities requesting participation and meeting eligibility criteria
* timeliness of beneficiaries' payments
(d)    Impact indicators
*  percentage of total Greater Tirana built up area serviced by the project
*  percentage of Greater Tirana population with water, sewer and electricity connections
*  yearly evaluation of total private investment in housing construction, within the project area and
outside
*  spatial distribution of residential land prices
*  variations in the occurrence of infectious diseases usually linked to defective water and sanitary
services
*  percentage of beneficiary population investing in house connections (tertiary infrastructure)
*  unmet demand measured in number of eligible, but unfunded community associations
*  percent increase in the number of legal connections
2



B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related (Country Assistance Strategy ('CA SS) goal supported by the project (see Annex I)
CAS document number: TBD    Date of latest CAS discussion: May 1998 (scheduled)
The preparation of a CAS is underway. The expected date for Board presentation is July 1998. The main
issues to be addressed by the CAS for the housing and urban sectors are: (a) a severe shortage of essential,
operative infrastructure: (b) an acute housing shortage in rapidly growing cities such as Tirana and Dunres;
(c) rapid, uncontrolled growth of informal settlements, mainly at the periphery of the cities of Tirana and Durres;
and (d) excessive Govermment subsidies for social housing. Policy recommendations will address the need to let
the private sector play the key role in the supply of housing, while Government interventions should focus on
facilitating the growth of an active land market through legal and regulatory actions (registrations, cadastres,
solving restitution issues, responsive urban planning mechanisms) and the supply and efficient operation of urban
infrastructure. The proposed project is fully consistent with this strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
With the demise of the communist regime in 1991, when restrictions on population movements were
lifted, Albania's economy experienced growth rates in the order of over 7 percent per year. Since this time, rapid
urbanization of the Tirana-Durres corridor has occurred and Tirana experienced an annual increase in its
population of almost 7 percent, equivalent to about 30,000 people or 6,500 new households per year. With
Tirana's limited housing, dilapidated infrastructure, and scarce resources, the city was unable to cope with such
growthd, even though the Govermment spent some US$90 million on social housing projects which could only reach
a fraction of the needing population. This policy has proven inconsequential yet very costly in trying to meet the
promised targets.
Most of the new households have built houses illegally, and although they are of a reasonable quality, they
are located in areas with no infrastructure. The amount of investment in informal housing construction is currently
evaluated at about US$40 million a year. The market value of this yearly informal housing production is at least
three times this amount. While housing construction and the development of residential floor space has grown at
about the same pace as demographic growth, land development and the provision of primary infrastructure has
badly lagged behind. As a result, in 1997 about 235,000 people or 45 percent of Tirana's population were living in
neighborhoods with grossly inadequate infrastructure, representing a gross area of about 1,200 hectares or about
57 percent of the total built up area of Greater Tirana. Thus, almost half of the residents typically tap into
groundwater sources or into existing water mains, illegally connect to electricity networks, discharge wastewater
into the neighborhood, and dump domestic refuse into nearby streams or irrigation canals. The environmental
risks of this behavior show in the recent high incidence of gastroenteric diseases, while the massive losses of water
and electricity contribute to unreliable supplies and extremely low cost recovery.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Because of the seriousness of infrastructure deficiencies, the Government puts a high priority on (a) the
development of primary and secondary infrastructure where there is currently no possible private substitute for
Government investment, and (b) the stimulation of household investment in tertiary infrastructure and housing.
Other urban objectives, such as regularizing tenure through formal cadastres and maintaining tight control over the
quality and shape of urban development, should be pursued simultaneously but with a lower priority than the
development of infrastructure. If the pursuit of these secondary objectives becomes the major focus of an urban
policy it may distract financial and human resources from the main objective and, by the year 2006, could result in
a city where 65 percent of the population (about half a million people) would have no access to essential
infrastructure.
The secondary objectives (providing formal tenure) should be pursued only in limited areas where the
impact would be maximized without involving too many government resources. However, the Government should
take the necessary steps to quickly provide an easy way to obtain temporary tenure to all informal urban settlers.
Through the payment of a land development fee, this temporary tenure would register the claims of all informal
households on an area of land. The availability of a temporary tenure document would decrease transaction risks
3



and raise the market value of household investmiienits in lhousing constructioni. It would thus be an incentive to
increase private inivestmients in hiousing and tertiary infrastructure.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project conmponienits (see .4nnex 2.for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
(Cost Inc.               Bank        % of
('ontingencies   h of   financing     Bank
Component                     Category        (I,n$m)       Total    (U,S$n)  financing
A. Extension of Infrastructure Networks      Civil Works.      13.61        85.8       7.82       57.5
Extensioni of essential infrastnicture       Goods
including access roads, water supply. sewers,
and electricity to informal and under-serviced
settlements.
B. Institutional Development                 Goods,             1.38         8.7       1.38       100.0
Strengthening of urban planning capacity of  Consultants'
central and municipal govenmment: support  Services
for preparation of subprojects: application of
strategic   infrastructure   planiing   and
programming tools (e.g. strategic GIS,
monitoring urban indicators. etc.).
C. Project Administration Support            Goods.             0.87         5.5       0.80       91.2
Support for the Program  Coordination Unit  Vehicles,
(PCU) at the Ministry of Public Works and  Consultants'
Transport, and Project Management Teams  Services,
(PMTs) at participating local governments;  Incremental
technical assistance to guide the first phase of  Operation
project     implementation,      including  Cost
construction supervision and support for
comniiunity associations through NGOs.
Total      15.86        100.0     10.00       63.5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
Policy Aspects. The fundamental difference from previous urban investment programs is the shift from a
supply to a demand driven system of infrastructure planning and execution. Participating communities will be
chosen on the basis of meeting established eligibility criteria. The creation of community associations guided by a
charter and representing at least two thirds of community residents would be an essential prerequisite for
participation in the project, as would be the demonstrated willingness to participate in the project and help defray
the costs of secondary infrastructure (at least 20 percent of project costs) through the payment of a land
development fee. Fifty percent of this fee would be expected up front under condition of contract signature. The
final payment (50 percent) would be due before completion of civil works. Upon proof of full payment residents
will have the right to purchase the land they are claiming. Temporary tenure rights would be granted during the
construction period with a rent payment included in the land development fee. Typically. a household would end
up paying for almost 80 percent of his dwelling, i.e. for land, structure, secondary and tertiary infrastructure.
Site selection criteria include: (a) land where ownership is clear and free of outstanding restitution issues
or other disputes, or if such exist, they must be clarified before implementation; (b) primary and/or secondary
infrastructure networks for water and electricity are available within 1 kilometer of the proposed site or will be
provided to the site in parallel with the upgrading program; (c) environmental baseline surveys are completed; (d)
at least two thirds of the residents are prepared to fonn community associations, pay for tertiary infrastructure,
preserve rights of way for streets and foot paths, and contribute at least 20 percent of the cost of secondary
infrastructure. (which could amount to US$1,000 in the case of larger plots); and (e) the resettlement action plan is
prepared in accordance with the guidelines agreed with the Association.
4



Institutional Aspects. Under current law, the Government is the sole owner of public land, while local
governments have considerable authority over its management. The project would assist both central and local
authorities to strengthen land management skills and prioritize policy actions in order to meet the overriding
objective of reducing infrastructure deficiencies. Local authorities are expected to become active facilitators
between the central Government and local comnmunities in formulating investment priorities, managing project
implementation. keeping the community involved throughout the project, and tracking payments of the land
development fee. They would be involved in project preparation activities such as drawing up the investment
program on the basis of detailed designs, and would participate in the evaluation of bids and supervise ongoing
construction works in cooperation with independent construction supervision consultants. They would also keep
important records such as individual plot sizes. size of built up areas, new construction and extension to existing
structures, land prices for serviced land with or without buildings, beneficiary payments, tertiary connections and
other private infrastructure investments. They would be assisted in these endeavors by technical assistance
provided througlh the project and by bilateral grants. USAID has already offered to participate in the technical
assistance component. and other donors have also expressed interest.
The proposed project would also redefine the role of communities. Since the Government and local
governments will limit their involvement to the construction of primary and secondary infrastructure networks,
tertiary networks (or household connections) will become an option to be undertaken by community residents.' To
establish the rules of project implementation, residents and the respective municipality will enter into a partnership
agreement in which the rights and obligations of each party will be spelled out and where the scope for private
investment in tertiary infrastructure will be agreed.2 The social assessment carried out during project preparation
confinned the readiness and willingness of the residents to participate in such a partnership, and a pilot program
was carried out by a Dutch NGO with considerable success. In both pre-identified project areas NGOs have been
active and will continue to provide the crucial communication link between the local governments and residents.
Technical assistance would also be provided under the proposed project to help organize community residents, and
strengthen the capacity of local governments to assist in the construction and operation and maintenance of tertiary
infrastructure.
3. Benefits and target population
The major benefits of the proposed project would be: (a) increased productivity and improved living
conditions for residents in the immediate term; and (b) increased supply of urban land for housing and small
commercial activities through the expected densification of project areas. The value of Lhese benefits would be
captured in the market value of developed land with informal and formal tenure, depending on the location of
participating communities. Secondary benefits would be less quantifiable, such as the ability to gain temporary
tenure which is expected to contribute significantly to cost recovery of public investments and induce private
investment. Both will in turn contribute to the expected higher market values of land and housing in the project
areas.
The project does not explicitly target a particular income group since household incomes in participating
communities are expected to encompass much of the social strata. Communities in Albania have proved
themselves to be able to resolve such differences within the community without government intervention. It is
expected that this will happen here too and that NGOs will provide all the support that might be needed. The
major adjustment, however, is expected to come through demand for land which is expected to be very price
elastic. The incentives for participating households are to scale down the consumption of land to affordable levels.
The proposed project would benefit about 7,500 households through improved access to essential
infrastructure such as roads, sewers, water supply, and electricity. A forecast shows (see Annex 10) that even with
the project. the proportion of population without access to infrastructure increases from about 45 percent in 1997 to
52 percent in 2002. or from 320,000 to 350,000 in numbers. During the next few years it would, therefore, be
essential to put in place the necessary primary infrastructure required to serve greater Tirana, through this project
and through other financing schemes. It will then be possible in the period 2003 to 2006 to increase the
development of secondary and tertiary infrastructure to reach a greater number of people in subsequent years. The
densification of areas already upgraded in the first phase will also increase infrastructure availability. It is
' The cost of the tertiary networks accounts for about 20% of the total infrastructure cost.
2 This practice has often been found in informal settlements particularly for the connection of electricity. In Bathori, a case was
found where residents jointly purchased a transformer and connected it to high-voltage networks.
5



envisaged that by the end of 2006 the proportion of urban population having no access to infrastructure will be
reduced to 36 percent from the current 45 percent. By that time the quality of urban services (water, drainage,
roads) in the inner city will have to be significantly improved.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (see ,S'ection D)
The following are the main stakeholders in the proposed project: (a) the Government, (b) participating
local govermnents. (c) communities, and (d) utility companies. The roles of these stakeholders are summarized as
follows:
(a)     The Government (the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MoPWT)). As the designated executing
agency of the IDA credit, the MoPWT will have the authority over project implementation (including
procurement, reporting, and disbursement), and will be the custodian of national urban policies.
*  Program  Coordination Unit (PCU).  A  PCU  will be established within the MoPWT with
responsibility for: (i) review of subprojects for consistency in application of the eligibility criteria; (ii)
review of feasibility studies and recommendations to the Program Steering Committee for final
approval; (iii) review and approval of detailed design and engineering studies and tender documents
prepared by the PMTs: (iv) procurement of goods, civil works, and consultant services in
collaboration with PMTs; (v) management of the Technical Assistance component; (vi) verification
and processing of Statements of Expenditures and Withdrawal Applications; (vii) reporting and
auditing; and (viii) preparation of regular progress reports for review by the Program Steering
Committee (see below) and IDA.
(b)    Participating Local C7overnments. The Municipality of Tirana and the District of Tirana have been
selected as the participating local govermments. Other municipalities can also participate in the project
with the agreement of the Borrower and the Association. These local governments will be responsible for:
(i) identifying project sites in line with the established eligibility criteria; (ii) interacting with participating
communities; (iii) preparing the urban concept plan and partnership agreement; (iv) preparing designs for
infrastructure networks and supervising secondary and tertiary network construction; (v) monitoring
project progress and essential developments in the project areas (such as registration of temporary tenure
rights, monitoring land prices and densities, economic, social and demographic changes); (vi) providing
essential information to MoPWT for reporting purposes; and (vii) preparing and implementing city
regulations. A project management team (PMT) will be established in each participating municipality or
district to work closely with the PCU, the NGOs and the community associations.
- Project Management Team (PMT). The functions of the PMT will include: (i) marketing the project
and identifying eligible subprojects; (ii) carrying out pre-feasibility studies, feasibility studies, and
detailed design; (iii) communicating and negotiating with the community associations; and (iv)
reporting to the PCU on project impacts. The PMT will be assisted by national consultants in
carrying out these tasks whose terms of reference (TORs) will be prepared by the PMT with assistance
from international, consultants recruited through the PCU. The roles and functions of the local
government and the PMT will be stipulated in detail in the implementation agreement and in the
partnership agreement with participating community associations; the content of a draft
implementation agreement was agreed at negotiations. Project preparation is most advanced in the
Lapraka and Bathore communities, but other communities, such as Mihal Grameno and Selita, have
also expressed their interest and have begun project preparation activities. Effectiveness of project
preparation and compliance with eligibility standards will ultimately decide on the inclusion of other
communities.
(c)    Communities. With the support of the PMTs and NGOs, community residents will formally participate in
the project. The residents will organize themselves into associations (community associations), express
their infrastructure priorities, comment on layout and designs, align their plot sizes in line with rights of
way and affordability, contribute to the financing of secondary infrastructure and provide and pay for
tertiary connections. These responsibilities of community associations will be stipulated under a
partnership agreement between the local government and community associations.
(d)     (Jtility Companies. The utility companies will review the detailed designs and tender documents and
approve completed works, and take over operation and maintenance of primary and secondary networks
constructed under the project.
6



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejectioni
Two alternative project designs were considered: (a) support for the construction of public housing to
help alleviate the shortage of housing in Tirana and to focus attention on social aspects of housing; (b) a greenfield
development where the public sector would sell developed land to private developers who in turn would build up
the area for sale to private investors. Both alternatives were rejected. The approach chosen in the proposed project
rests on the assumption that it is more cost effective and both environmentally and socially beneficial to take
infrastructure to areas where people already live rather than the other way around.
(a)     Construction of Public Housing. The IDA Housing Project (Credit 2534-ALB) has proven that supplying
public housing is not a cost-effective or fiscally feasible solution to the current urban housing shortage,
nor will it address the issue of rapid growth. The number of families in Tirana increased by 5,000-8,000
every year over the past five years. implying a magnitude of US$50-80 million of budgetary support to
social housing (assuming all new families received public housing). In addition, cost recovery from
beneficiaries has been extremely difficult under the current generous social housing policy.
(b)     Greenfield Development.  Anotlher option would be to prepare unserviced public land with essential
infrastructure for sale to either private developers (wholesale) or individuals (retail) to encourage housing
development by the private sector. However, this option has also been rejected mainly because of: (i) the
long gestation period between the extension of infrastructure and the development of private housing:'
(ii) the high cost and high risk of this strategy in an environment where formal markets for land and
housing are just emerging: (iii) the experience under the first housing project that clearly demonstrated
the limitations on the public sector to act as private developer.
2. Mlajor related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (comipleted, ongoing and
planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Goal                        Project           Implementation       Development
.__________________________   ___Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank
Increase the supply of urban housing and    Housing (1993-                U                   U
facilitate the transition to a market-based    present)
housing and urban sector.
Rehabilitate public infrastructure in urban   Durres Water Supply         S                   S
areas.                                    (1993-ongoing)
Assist urban dwellers with repairs to     Urban Works and                 S                   S
essential infrastructure.                 Microfinance Project
Other development agencies
Increase government and municipal         Land Management                NA                  NA
capacity in public land management        (1993-1996)
(USAID).
Define regulations for land registration  Land Registration              NA                  NA
and implement a pilot project (USAID).    (1993-ongoing)
Define the role of communities and local    Bregulmasi Program           NA                  NA
governments in upgrading process          (1995-1996)
(CEBEMO (Dutch NGO)).                   I        _II_
IP/DO Ratings HS (Highly Satisfactory). S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Experience from similar projects suggests that serviced land often does not have a sufficient rate of utilization at the time of
project completion, as project sites are ollen chosen for technical reasons regardless of the market or social preference.
7



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The Albania Housing Project, which assisted the Government in the first post-communist years with the
completion of unfinished public housing construction while demanding sale and partial cost recovery at the time of
completion. has once again demonstrated the poor performance of the public sector as a quasi housing developer.
Unit costs of construction have been considerably higher than for comparable units built by the private sector
without govermment support. In addition, the Government has, been slow to comply with the requirement to sell
completed units and to recover costs of completing apartments. The approach, chosen at the time because of few
alternatives in a very difficult economic and political environment, should not be replicated because it is not
fiscally sustainable.
The proposed project has therefore adopted a completely different approach, building to a large extent on
sunk private investments, whiclh has proven successful elsewhere in the world (e.g. Jordan, Pakistan, Poland), and
enhancing those investments through access to essential infrastructure and related increases in land value. The
latter should in turn encourage additional private investment in housing and less essential infrastructure, as rising
land values encourage densification and more rational use of scarce land, while households benefit from the
productivity and environmental gains of guided urban development.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The first identification mission associated with the proposed project took place in April 1995. Since then,
an extensive policy dialogue has been carried out between the Government and the Bank on alternative solutions to
problems in the urban and housing sectors (see paragraph 1 of this section). The Bank was able to build on the
substantial analysis which was carried out with support from USAID and which led to the creation of the Land
Management Task Force (LMTF) and the publication of a Draft Structure Plan for Tirana. The LMTF took the
lead role during project preparation, engaging in extensive consultations with all parties concerned-the
Government of Albania, the Municipality and District of Tirana, the community residents, the public utilities and
institutes (water, electricity, urban planning, road institute), local and foreign (Dutch) NGOs, USAID, and the
World Bank.
Despite lengthy disruptions in both 1996 and 1997 due to political events, project preparation picked up
again as soon as conditions allowed it to continue building alliances among the many different stakeholders. There
is a strong sense of project ownership and commitment among the key Government ministries (MoPWT and,
Ministry of Finance), the leadership of the Municipality and District of Tirana, and the communities chosen for
project appraisal, which have benefited from intensive interactions with NGOs and, during the past year, municipal
representatives.  Project preparation was supported by: (a) USAID which provided a municipal engineer
throughout the preparation period; (b) a grant by the Japanese Government (PHRD) (executed by the Government
of Albania) which allowed the continuous involvement of international consultants with the LMTF; and (c) a grant
by the Japanese Government through the MIETAP program which was used to finance engineering consultants for
feasibility studies and detailed design works and more recently the engagement of a local NGO to assist the
communities in preparing for project implementation.
The project introduces a number of features that were not previously known or tested in Albania on any
significant scale. Direct beneficiary involvement in project design and implementation is new and not without
controversy among the population at large, especially when benefits involve people who have settled illegally on
public land. The project preparation team has and continues to address this issue through public communication of
the objectives of the project and the rights and obligations of participating communities, stressing the demand
driven participatory approach to the design. However, this public communication effort must become an ongoing
commitment to ensure that the project enjoys the approval and participation of a large part of Tirana's population.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
Since the start of Albania's democratic regime in 1992, IDA has been the primary institution to provide
investment funding for the development of the housing and urban sectors. Other donors such as the EU and
USAID have limited their engagement to small-scale pilot investments or technical assistance. On a sector basis.
water supply and sanitation have received assistance from IDA, EU-PHARE,. KfW, the Italian, Japanese and
Austrian Governments. The Bank brings to the task extensive experience in the housing and urban sectors in other
8



transition economies as well as throughout the world which has been highly valued by the Albanian authorities and
project preparation team.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file. see Annex 8)
1. Economiiic (see Annex 4)
The project's major economic benefits are: (a) increased productivity and improved environmental
conditionis for residents withinl the project areas: and (b) increased economic value of land through infrastructure
improvements and densification. The following indicators have been used in the economic analysis as proxies to
capture the project benefits: (a) economic value of dwelling (depending on infrastructure and location) to measure
productivity and amenities for the area: and (b) per hectare density (percentage of area developed and average
number of floors) to measure the economic potential of the land as a residential area. The economic rate of return
was estimated based on the with-project and without-project scenarios for two representative project sites. The
detailed assumptions and results are described in Annex 4, and the full economic analysis is available in the project
file.
The economic net present values (NPVs), estimated at a discount rate of 12 percent, are US$0.55 million
and $0.35 million for Lapraka and Bathore respectively. The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 23.9
percent for Lapraka and 20.1 percent for Bathore. A sensitivity analysis has proven that the project's economic
rate of return is sufficient under various assumptions such as: (a) a two-year delay in project implementation, (b) a
two-year delay in tertiary development. (c) decreased demand for serviced land resulting in a 25 percent less
market price, and (d) a 10 percent increase in cost.
2. Financial
Financial Analysis (see Annex 5). The net present value of the proposed project will be negative, as will
the financial flows througlhout the project period (including the period after completion), making the project's
financial rate of return mathematically incomputable. The estimatedfinancial net present value at a discount rate
of 12 percent would be approximately US$-8.4 million (including costs for technical assistance and
administration). As long as tariffs remain controlled, the NPV will remain negative. But the project would be
justified by its high economic return, as shown in the previous section.
Current utility tariffs, tightly controlled by the Government, make full cost recovery for water supply,
sewerage and electricity impossible. The project does not aim at changing the Government's tariff policies given
its limited impact on the additional supply of any of the services offered. However, under the project a
development fee will be assessed which would be equal to at least 20 percent of the secondary infrastructure cost
and which would be charged to the final users. The collection of the fee will be phased and the following has been
agreed: (a) 50 percent of the community share shall be paid prior to the signing of a civil works contract; (b) the
remaining 50 percent shall be paid prior to completion of the contract (and approval of works); and (c) no new
contracts will be allowed to serve the same community until all payments have been made on the prior contract.
Tertiary connections will be carried out by beneficiaries. In addition, in order to improve the efficiency of tariff
collection, opportunities for authorizing community associations or other recognized entities to collect user charges
at wholesale rates will be explored.
Flowv of Funds (see Figure 1). Albania, represented by the Ministry of Finance, is to be the Borrower for
the proposed project. The Ministry of Public Works and Transport will be responsible for implementation of the
project. The Municipality of Tirana and the District of Tirana, and other participating municipalities, will
implement the Extension Of Essential Infrastructure component of the project. They will be involved in all aspects
of project preparation and implementation as regulated through an agreement between the Government and the
participating local governments. However, the participating local governments will have no independent financial
or fiscal responsibilities during project implementation. The project account will be administered by the PCU out
of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, which will be responsible for monitoring all disbursements to and
from the Project Account. A Special Account will be opened in the Bank of Albania into which the proceeds of the
Loan Account will be transferred upon receipt of withdrawal applications. The initial deposit in the Special
Account will be US$500,000. After the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association equal to or exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 750,000, the Special Account allocation will increase to an amount equivalent to US$I million.
9



Government counierpart funding for the project will amount to about US$0.5 million per year during the 5 years of
project implemenitation.
P'arlicipaling Local Governments. Participating local governments will be responsible for the collection
of land developmenit fees to be used for payments from conmmunity associations to contractors. The development
fees will be deposited into an escrow account from whiclh disbursements will be made to a PCU project account
with the signature of both an authorized representative of community associations and an authorized representative
of the municipality.
Figure 1. Flow of Funds
IDA
IDA credit
the Government             * Primary and Secondary Infrastructure
PCU account                                                  J
L  Municipalities 
Land Development Fee
Beneficiaries    -    -*            Teriary Infrastructure   ]
3. Technical
The proposed project will extend basic infrastructure to unserviced areas. To facilitate this, the
Government and the utility companies have agreed to adjust secondary and tertiary infrastructure standards to
affordable levels, thus containing project costs. Levels of service provided will allow for incremental upgrading.
Detailed designs with costs, final drawings, and specifications have been prepared for two pilot sites at Lapraka
(33 ha) and at Bathore (13 ha), for secondary and tertiary infrastructure costs. The financing of primary systems
will be limited to an absolute mninimum and is provided only when extension of secondary infrastructure is not
otherwise possible.
The responsibility for operation and maintenance of the primary and secondary infrastructure provided by
the project will lie with the existing government utilities and municipal enterprises. Roads and sewers will be
maintained by the municipal road and sewerage enterprises. Water supply will be maintained by the water
enterprises, which at present come under local jurisdiction. Power supply will be maintained by KESH. the power
authority, for main lines and transformers. Domestic solid waste collection and disposal is a local responsibilitv.
Operation and maintenance of tertiary infrastructure will mainly be the responsibility of the same sectoral agencies.
although community management may be used, particularly for water supply, sewerage and roads.
4. Institntional (see Project Implementation Plan in the project file and section C. 4 above)
(a)     Executing Agency. The Government of Albania's Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MoPWT) will
be the accountable executing agency.
(b)     Project Management. The project will be implemented jointly by the MoPWT and participating local
governments. Their responsibilities will be regulated in a project agreement between the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport and the participating local governments.
(c)     Project Coordination. A Program Steering Committee will be formed to oversee project implementation
and address any outstanding policy issues. In addition, a strategic infrastructure investment committee
will be established to discuss priorities for infrastructure investment for Tirana.
10



*   Program Steering Committee. The Minister of Public Works. Mayor of Tirana, Chairman/woman of
the District of Tirana, and the State Secretary of Local Government will form a steering committee to
oversee project implemenitation; the head of the PCU will be the Secretary of the Steering Committee.
The functions of the Steering Committee include: (i) overall guidance of project development and
implementation: (ii) managing stakeholder interests in the project; (iii) taking a lead to resolve major
policy issues (possible restitution issues. finiancial issues, other legal issues); (iv) selection of
subprojects to proceed to the feasibility study, review of feasibility studies, and final approval of
eligible subprojects.
*   Strategic Infrastructure Planning ('ommittee. The upgrading of settlements should take place within
a strategic citywide infrastnicture framework plan of trunk and primary mains, which can respond to
the demands of urba,n growth and densification. However, despite a forecast population growth of
500.000 in the next 15 vcars. an infrastructure framework plan does not exist for greater Tirana. The
Governmiient wishes to regularize thie situation and the Strategic Infrastructure Plan and Programming
Study has been inclujded as a part of the Institution Strengthening (technical assistance) component.
The provision of new  infrastnicture investment on this scale requires a committee of elected
representatives and civic leaders supported by working groups to oversee the study. The committee
will comprise the Minister of Public Works and Transport, the Chairman of the District of Tirana, the
Mayor of Tirana. the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister for Aide-Coordination, and Ministry of
Environment and Health. Under the committee, a working group will be established comprising
directors of the state electricity company (KESH) and local govermment enterprises (water supply,
sewerage and roads), the Director of Planning for the Municipality and the District of Tirana, the
Director of the National Planning Institute, the Director of the Land Registration Program, and
international experts and business and civic leaders, if needed.
5. Legal
Legal Framework.   The current legal framework is summarized in Annex VI of the Project
Implementation Plan. It was found that the current laws provide a sufficient basis for the proposed project. In
particular, Sections 4 and 5 of the Law on the Fee System No. 7777, enacted on December 22, 1993, stipulate the
right of local governments to impose a special levy for the improvemnent of communities including infrastructure
extension.
Restitution. All project sites eligible for participation will be classified as urban land, and may be subject
to possible future restitution claims, as the current Restitution Law (Law No. 7698) does not specify a deadline for
restitution claims. This law stipulates that former owners have the right to reclaim their land up to 10,000 square
meters of the original location if this location is not used nor will it be used for other purposes. At negotiations, it
was agreed that the Government will issue a decree pursuant to Article 16 of the Law to clarify the project area as
urban land occupied by permanent buildings. Thus, pursuant to the Law, the original landowners in the built up
subproject area will be compensated either in cash, government bonds, and/or alternative land.
6. Social
Project Inmpact. The most immediate social impact of the project will be the fulfillment of basic needs
such as access roads, clean water, better sanitation and improved health. Also, the project is expected to release
time currently used to fulfill daily household chores which may often be converted into small scale economic
activities (shops, handicrafts, child care, health services), particularly among women.' Land and property values
are expected to increase as a result of the project enhancing the wealth of the beneficiaries. In addition, the project
offers temporary employment during the construction period.
In the medium to longer term, the project would integrate unserviced and neglected urban areas into the
social and economic fabric of the city. Densification of the area is expected to progress rapidly in response to
rising land values in both formal and informal settlements. Within the informal settlements, individual plot sizes
in the project areas will be registered in the name of the current user, establishing temporary tenure rights if
' A committee for women was established in an association in Lapraka (Bregalmusi Association) to pursue gender and
economic issues for women.
11



payments are current, or permanent ownershlip rights if the plot is purchased. The project would thus stimulate the
development of a land and hotusinig market without making this its primary objective.
.ffordability. The affordability of the beneficiaries' monetary contributions to the project is a social issue.
Social assessment studies have been conducted to analyze the default risks and identify alleviating measures. As a
result it has been concluded that most households will be in a position to contribute at least 20 percent of the
secondary infrastructure. According to the current cost estimates, the land development fee would be within a
range of US$1 to $2 per square meter. A typical household with a plot of about 300 square meters will pay
US$300-600 upon completion of the extension of infrastructure networks. This represents barely 10 percent of
typical investments in housinig. The social assessment conducted by the NGOs indicates that these ranges should
be affordable for over 65 percent of current residents.
Resettlemitent. No resettlemenit is envisaged under the proposed project. In response to urban concept
plans prepared in collaboration with community residents. potential beneficiaries have voluntarily adjusted the
boundaries of their occupied properties to accommodate the rights of way of future infrastructure. The road
network for Lapraka and Bathore has been laid out in a way as to avoid confflicts with existing structures.
Participating communities will be informed well in advance of any construction about the infrastructure
layout and will be requested to keep the rights of way clear from informal settlements. At negotiations, the
Government agreed to proceed with resettlement in a manner consistent with the principles and guidelines agreed
with the Association and pursuant to a time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Association, which shall be
prepared in accordance with said guidelines, if such resettlement is found to be inevitable as a last resort to carry
out project implementation. Preparation of such an action plan to be submitted to the Project Steering Committee
and the Association prior to the approval of the sub-projects is among the selection criteria of subprojects.
7. Environmental assessment:    Environmental Category  [ I A    [xi B    [I  C
The proposed project has been screened and classified as category B in accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directives. The project will extend infrastructure networks to sites which already have substantial
settlements. In the absence of sewer networks and access roads, residents are dumping solid waste and wastewater
into nearby creeks or irrigation canals, possibly causing major irreversible environmental damage.
A possible negative impact of the project could be an increase in wastewater discharge from the pilot
project areas. Under the proposed project, raw sewage would be collected through new sewerage networks and
discharged into the Tirana River. However, the impact is considered to be marginal, as most of the residents in the
project areas already have access to water, either through illegal connections or by pumping underground water,
and the increase in the amount of wastewater, due to the extension of a water supply network, would be minimal.
The Government has recognized the potential environmental problem and has embarked on a study for a sewage
collection and treatment master plan for Tirana with assistance from the Government of Japan, and as a result
sewage treatment facilities could be operational in the miedium-tenn.
A mitigation plan was jointly prepared by the Bank and the Government to establish a series of
interventions to minimize environmental impacts during project implementation, as shown in Annex VI to the
Project Implementation Plan. In addition, prior to subproject selection, an environmental evaluation would be
carried out to record the current environment as a baseline survey.
8. Participatory approach
A  demand-driven community-empowered and managed approach to the planning, provision and
maintenance of infrastructure and other services is one of the most important elements in the project. Legal and
social conditions, cultural perspectives and financial capabilities of the different communities and local authorities
are important elements in the assessment of the servicing options designed for each sub-project. Priority will be
given to under-serviced communities that are willing to form associations and contribute to the provision and
maintenance of the infrastructure and towards their own self-improvement.
12



Under the project, the local governments in association with community residents will prepare an urban
concept plan setting out the basic infrastructure layout, preliminary cost estimates and priorities for servicing. This
will form the basis for a partnership agreement between the community associations and the local government. It
will outline the agreed responsibilities including the protection of rights of way for infrastructure or land for social
facilities by residents. The municipality will agree to provide municipal services and infrastructure to a level and
standard acceptable to the community and will recover a portion of the costs. The residents will agree to further
participate in the design of infrastructure, to contribute to some of the costs through land development fees, and to
provide tertiary and household connections at their own expense.
While this partnership approach is innovative, it is based on existing practices in Tirana where groups of
households cooperate to finance infrastructure and upgrade roads that serve their parcels. Residents in different
communities in Tirana are organizing by "commissions" or delegations for planning studies, by street groups for
sewers, water supply and road improvements, and by block or service area groups for power and social services. In
the Lapraka site, the community organization (Bregulmasi Association), assisted by a Dutch NGO, has organized
residents to preserve rights of way according to the urban concept plan, construct community roads, a kindergarten,
and basic electricity, water supply and drainage networks. In Bathore, residents in the pilot area have organized
themselves into a registered community association (Bathore Association) and are working with the District PMT
to open rights of way. based on an approved urban concept plan.
The project is building on these practical trends and drawing clear distinctions between the roles of
govermienit and infrastructure agencies and residents in the provision and maintenance of secondary networks,
tertiary systems and house connections. The partnership structure would provide the framework for organization
and coordination of household inputs. Under the project, households would provide tertiary infrastructure and/or
house connections under technical supervision, either directly through their own labor and materials or by
recruiting private contractors. Households would be organized within the framework of the community associations
or into smaller street or block groups. At the Bregulmasi Association, 27 sub-division groups have been created to
coordinate land subdivision and tertiary construction in collaboration with the community association. The
Bathore Association, a newly formed community association, is comprised of 20 members who represent the street
groups in the area. Upon payment of land development fees and completion of tertiary networks, residents will
enter into individual agreements with local authorities regarding final land sale or lease options if public land is
involved. Residents, assisted by PMTs and NGOs, will be involved throughout and local and foreign consultant
assistance will be available on an as-needed basis.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project aims to provide an appropriate policy and institutional framework for environmentally and
fiscally sustainable urban management. It would:
increase the share of cost recovery which traditionally has been far from adequate in Albania:
raise the willingness to properly and legally maintain and operate the acquired assets:
* maintain infrastructure designs and costs at affordable levels;
develop trust between public officials and citizens and demonstrate that mutual benefits are indeed
achievable; and
harness the benefits of demand driven participatory approach through increased private investment in
land and housing.
If successful, the project should be replicated at a much larger scale in other cities.
13



2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofA4nnex 1)
Risk                Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1,
cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Low cost recovery from beneficiaries. S         Incentives for beneficiaries to pay fees: (i) certification of
payment of land development fee; (ii) registration of plot
size and current user/owner; (iii) temporary tenure during
the construction period; (iv) option to purchase land at the
end of the construction period and receipt of full payment;
(v) offer of long-tenn leases if preferred by beneficiary.
Lack of community participation.   S            Intensive involvement of social workers and NGOs in
community organization and communications and/or
negotiations with central and local authorities.
Annex 1,
cell 'from Components to Outputs"
Limited capacity in planning,      H            Training of central and local authorities in project
implementation and supervision.                 administration, specialized support through expatriate
advisors, private design and supervision consultants,
participation of each utility company in detailed designs,
procurement and approval of works.
Lack of institutional coordination.    M        lmplementation  arrangements  agreed  between  the
Government and each participating institution and public
authority (utility companies, local governments) defining
the responsibilities of all parties. Formation of a steering
committee to facilitate project coordination.
Non-compliance with technical      M            Technical assistance to local governments to enhance
standard of the tertiary infrastructure.        their monitoring and supervisory capacity.
Overall Risk Rating                S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk). S (Substantial Risk). M (Moderate Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects
The proposed project is socially sensitive as it offers benefits to recent migrants to Greater Tirana which
are not perceived to be fair by long-term city residents. Many of the newcomers to Tirana have settled on public
land without permission or authorization. They have invested substantial amounts of private savings into housing
of good quality (most houses constructed cost between US$7,000 and US$10,000 to build) and will without doubt
stay in the areas they have selected. To subsidize (at least in the short term) the supply of infrastructure to these
areas which may in quality exceed that of many parts of the city is a proposition not easily accepted by the resident
population.
The project teams in the local govemnments and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport have started a
major public infonnation effort to explain (a) the benefits of this project which do not differentiate between legally
and illegally occupied areas so that any qualifying community of Greater Tirana can apply for participation in the
project; and more importantly (b) the necessity to harness the benefits the project offers across the city so as to
integrate its infrastructure system over time, encourage efficient use of scarce urban land through densification,
and limit the environmental and economic costs of neglect for the city and country as a whole.
14



G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Conditions of Board presentation
*  Establishment of a PCU in the .M1inistrv of Public Works and PMTs in the MlIunicipality and the District of
Tirana has been completed.
*  Creation of a Program Steering Committee has been completed.
a  Submission of the Amendment to the Restitution Law to the Parliament to provide original land owners in
built up subproject areas with compensation for restitution claims either in cash or through provision of an
alternative site has been completed.
2. Conditions of effectiveness
*  Adoption of the Amendment to the Restitution Law by Parliament to provide original land owners in built up
subproject areas with compensation for restitution claims either in cash or through provision of an alternative
site.
*  Execution of implemnentation agreements between the Government ofAlbania and participating municipalities
(the Municipality and the District of Tirana).
*  Execution of a partnership agreement between a participating municipality and at least one community
association.
3. Other legal covenants
* Satisfactory compliance of participating municipalities with agreed selection criteria for subprojects.
*  Satisfactory compliance of participating municipalities with agreed principles and guidelines for resettlement,
if any resettlement shall be necessary for subprojects.
*  Provision of option to either purchase or lease the land at completion of construction works upon full payment
of land developmentfee.
•  Conducting a mid-term review on September 30, 2000, based on the report to be submitted to the Association
on July 31, 2000.
*  Consultation prior to modification of the law affecting the land development fee.
•  Reporting andAuditing.
*  Operation of the ,Special Account.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[xi The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [ I Not applicable.
[ I The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[xl The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
* Implementation agreement between the central Government and participating local governments.
* Partnership agreements between participating local governments and community associations.
15



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.
Team LeadA : Toru Konishi
Sector D fec e .a pe in
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann
16



Annex I
Urban Land Management Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary             Key Performance            Monitoring and Evaluation             Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related ('AS Goal:                                 *   % of total Greater Tirana built up   (Goal to Bank Mission)
*   Developmenit of land and  *   % covered by                in area serviced by the project  *   Continuous economic and
housing market                infrastructure networks   *   % of Greater Tirana population    political stability
*   Sustainable urbanization                                  with water, sewerage, and
*   Private-sector-led growth  *   Economic use of urbani     electricity coinections
land                   *   Annual private investment in
*   Private sector             housing construction
investnent in housing    *   % of beneficiary population
and land market           investing in tertiary connection
*   I)ecreased risk for    *   Spatial distribution of residential
water bom diseases         land/housing price
*   Variations in the occurrence of
infectious diseases linked to
defective water and sanitary
services
*   Non-technlical loss of water and
electricity
Project Development Objective:                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
*   Extension of infrastructure   *   Enhanced productivity    *   Number of houses under      *   Community participation
to unserviced or neglected    *   Improved                construction and built per hectare
areas in Greater Tirana       environmental living        of land developed
conditions             *   Population density in developed
*   Rational use of scarce     sites
urban land             *   Average cash investment per
*   Improved cost recovery     household
*   Market price of land per in2
*   Market price of completed houses
*   Percentage contribution by
beneficiaries to project cost
Outputs:                      *   Physical output of      *   Volume of civil works executed  (Outputs to Objective)
*   Extension of infrastructure   infrastructure          *   Area developed                  *   Communities' understanding of
*   Beneficiary-participating  *   Infrastructure service    *   Number of individual water,       project concept and willingness
infrastructure development    rendered                    sewer, and electricity connections  to participate in the project
*   Normal working condition
Project Components / Sub-     Inputs: Project cost        *   Input expenditure for each      (Components to Outputs)
components (see Annex 2for                                    component (US$ million)         *   Availability of counterpart
project description):                                                                             funds
*   Extension of infrastructure                                                               *   Sufficient project management
*   Institutionial development                                                                     capacity
*   Project management                                                                        *   Sufficient institutional
support                                                                                       coordination
17



Annex 2
Urban Land Management Project
Project Description
Project Objectives and Description
1.     The project includes the following three components: (a) extension of essential infrastructure,
(b) institutional development, and (c) project administration and management support. The primary objective of
the proposed project is to provide essential urban infrastructuire to unserviced or neglected areas in Greater Tirana
and strengthen the institutions responsible for the delivery of urban services at the national and local levels.
Project Approach and Project Area
2.     The project will follow a program approach. Two sites for the first phase have been identified, and the
Government will select further sub-projects for the second phase in close collaboration with local governments,
using criteria such as the following:
(a)   land ownership is clear and free of outstanding restitution issues or other disputes, and if such exist, they
must be clarified before implementation;
(b)    primary and/or secondary infrastructure networks for water and electricity are available within 1 kilometer
of the proposed site or will be provided to the site in parallel with the upgrading program;
(c)    environmental baseline surveys are completed;
(d)    at least two thirds of the residents are prepared to form  community associations, pay for tertiary
infrastructure, preserve the rights of way for streets and foot paths, and contribute at least 20 percent of the
cost of secondary infrastructure, which could amount to US$ 1,000 each in the case of larger plots; and
(e)    a resettlement action plan is prepared and is in compliance with the guidelines agreed with the Association.
3.     Upon selection of sites, a feasibility study will be carried out first to determine the basic design of
infrastructure and to assess economic viability; the detailed design and tender documents will be completed second.
The detailed procedures are included in Annex II of the Project Implementation Plan. The following is the
summary of the two subprojects identified at the appraisal stage.
*  Lapraka is located about four kilometers west of central Tirana, covering about 33 hectares with a population
of 2.000. Informal settlement started in 1993 and the area is mainly occupied by middle class single family
houses. However, the majority of these houses do not have all weather access roads, making access to each
house difficult during rain. Contamination from wastewater due to the lack of sewerage is also a major issue.
The area would become prime residential property, and the proposed project would improve its environment
and encourage more efficient use of land through densification. The entire area is under public ownership
under the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Tirana.
*  Bathore is located about seven kilometers northwest of Tirana covering about 250 hectares. The area was
previously agricultural land and is still owned by the Government. Settlement started in late 1994. At
present, there are 2,000 dwellings on the site covering an area of approximately 40 to 50 hectares. Most
development has occurred along existing roads with the most densely settled areas toward the main road
adjacent to the pilot project site. Many open areas are beginning to be filled by the continuous stream of
migrants coming from the northern regions. The majority of houses do not have access to sewerage and water,
and the project would improve the environment of the area, and prevent possible irreversible environmental
impacts such as ground water contamination. As the area is adjacent to an existing agriculture area and
several irrigation canals, the proposed project would also prevent possible negative impacts on agricultural
production. The project would initially concentrate on a 13-hectare pilot site with about 180 houses.
18



4.     In addition. Selita and Mihal Grameno have also been recently identified as possible subprojects. Mihal
Grameno has also only been recently settled and has an existing population of around 2.000. Land tenure is mixed
in Mihal Grameno. some is privately owned while otlher parts are informally settled. There is an 18-hectare old
part of Selita with 450 families where land tenure is formalized, but which lacks basic services. The 200
households settled in the new area of Selita lack services and formal land registration. Both Mihal Grameno and
Selita are growing rapidly.
Main Components and Detailed Features
Component 1: Extension of Essential Infrastructure Netvorks
5.     This component would consist of the extension of essential primary and secondary infrastructure such as
access roads, water supply. sanitation, power supply, street lighting, and domestic solid waste collection. The
details of investment proposals are given below.
6.     Access Roads and Stormwater Drainage. Access roads will be developed under the project to improve
access to sites and to develop or maintain rights of way. Road arrangement will define the layouts of the sites and
the location of other infrastructure. Careffil attention will be paid during the preparation of the road layout in
order to avoid affecting existing superstructures and land acquisition. These access roads will be initially surfaced
with gravel or macadamn and upgraded incrementally as under-road services are provided. The road construction
will be complemented by culverts and stormwater drainage.
7.     Water Supply. Water supply networks will be extended to project areas to improve the quality and quantity
of service. Improvement of water supply systems in Tirana and Durres is underway with assistance from the Italian
Government and IDA respectively. Upon their completion, 200 liters of water per capita per day will be available
in the selected sites. Under the proposed project, connections will be provided on the secondary mains and tertiary
connections made by the households themselves. According to the household surveys, availability of water is one
of the top concerns of residents, and a rapid extension of tertiary connections is expected.
8.     Where possible, water supply will be drawn from the existing mains adjacent to the project areas. In
Lapraka, water will be drawn from an existing 400mm main alongside the adjacent railway line, which has been
constructed to serve the new high income development in this area. In Bathore, water will initially be provided
from an existing 200mm main. While this main is in poor condition, it is expected to serve at least 130 cubic
meters per day. which is sufficient for 550 people during the first phase at the design standards, assuming 15
percent unaccounted-for water. As an immediate next step, water will be drawn from the new clear water tank
under construction at Buvilla and supplied to a 5,000 cubic meter reservoir tank by a 1.1 kilometer pipe.
9.     Sanitation. The proposed project will provide sewerage networks in association with the extension of
water supply networks to capture household wastewater. These networks will prevent further environmental
damage caused by the random discharge of wastewater into open ditches. The Government is currently preparing a
feasibility study on new trunk sewers and a sewage treatment plant. While the sewage outfalls from project sites
will be initially discharged into the Tirana River, when completed sewers will be easily linked by gravity with the
proposed trunk sewers, which will lead to the proposed treatment plant. On-plot disposal systems were considered
but not employed due to a combination of projected densities, quantity of wastewater, and urban convention in
Albania. Most urban areas in Albania have piped sewerage systems, all of which drain untreated sewage into the
local water courses. Minimum sewer diameters will be 200mm at the secondary level.
10.    While households will be responsible for constructing tertiary networks, local governments will provide
extensive technical assistance to groups of families in designing and constructing tertiary networks since good
design and effective construction is vital to ensuring the proper functioning of the sewerage system.
11.    Power Supply and Street Lightening. The proposed project will provide beneficiary households with
sufficient power for lighting and heating. Illegal connections will be regularized through a combination of
improved service, peer group pressure, and incentives from the power company. There are large power supply
trunk distribution improvements underway in Albania, and generation is mainly by hydroelectric schemes with
excess generation capacity.
19



12.    An initial load of tlhree kilowatts per household has been allowed for, as per local regulations, although a
future six kilowatts per households should be provided in the longer term. Off-site primary grid power supplies are
available at project sites which will be linked into new substations and transformers to meet step-down
requirements.
13.    Solid Waste1lanagement. The proposed project will provide communal storage containers to ensure the
collection and sanitary disposal of domestic solid waste. The stored waste will be periodically collected by the
community-based solid waste system, and disposed of at municipal and district dumpsites. While the Municipality
of Tirana currently contracts out to two foreign firms for the collection and disposal of solid waste, the existing
large compactor trucks would not pass througli some of the narrow access roads within the project areas; thus local
contracts for solid waste management might have to be established in these areas.
Component 2: Institutional Development
14.    This component will support the Govermment's initiative to develop an institutional framework for
addressing urban management and informal settlements, and to enhance the fiscal and environmental
sustainability of urban development through: (a) preparation of subsequent subprojects, and (b) strategic
infrastructure planning for Tirana. Details of these subcomnponents are summarized below.
(a)    Preparation of subsequent subprojects. The aim  is to strengthen the capacity of local and central
government to identify trends in urban development, prioritize the investment in infrastructure
improvement, assess economic, social, and technical viability of the proposed investment, and develop a
robust plan for implementation. The expected outcome is a series of feasibility studies and technical
documents for each site to be included in the project. A total of 17 person/months of expatriate experts
covering municipal engineering, urban planning, and community development will be provided under this
sub-component. Detailed terms of reference are included in Annex II to the Project Implementation Plan.
(b)    Strategic Infrastructure Planning and Programming for Tirana. Under this subcomponent, a socio-
economic urban study will be carried out and an investment program prepared for the medium to long
term. The study will aim to: (i) identify the dynamics of recent development; (ii) ascertain the current
levels of service; (iii) forecast the demand for infrastructure services and the incremental investment
which will be required during the next 10 years: (iv) assess the financial impact, capacity, and willingness
of residents to pay for the services provided; and (v) prepare a strategic investment plan for up to 2010.
and cost estimates for infrastructure development in Greater Tirana. Then, a strategic plan will be
prepared to develop an implementation program until 2010 with cost estimates. The detailed terms of
reference are included in Annex II to the Project Implementation Plan.
(c)    Community and NGO Support. Under this subcomponent, 43 person/months of national community
development specialists will be financed to help community residents organize themselves and facilitate
the interactions between local governments and communities.  In addition, 15 person/months of
international experts will provide assistance to local governments, communities, and NGOs. Detailed
terms of reference for NGO support are included in Annex II to the Project Implementation Plan.
Component 3: Project Administration and Management Support
15.    This component supports the essential tasks to carry out project implementation has the following two
subcomnponents. Detailed Terms of Reference are included in Annex II to the Project Implementation Plan.
(a)    Institutional Support. A total of 30 staff months of a team of international experts will be provided under
this subcomponent to assist project implementation, and increase capacity in urban management.
Particular tasks of this team will include: (i) direct support for project administration (procurement,
disbursement, financial management, planning, and monitoring and evaluation); (ii) technical issues (e.g.
procurement, supervising feasibility studies and detailed designs, technical support to communities,
liaising with utility companies); (iii) community development (arranging socio-economic surveys,
coordinating residents for tertiary development through street associations). The team will be directly
responsible to the director of the Program Coordination Unit (PCU), and will assist each Project
Management Team (PMT), community association and NGO to participate in the project.
20



(b)    Detailed Design and ('onstruction Supervision. The project will finance teams of national consultants to
carry out design. tender docuinent preparation, and construction supervision for civil works to be financed
under the project.
21



Annex 3
Urban Land Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
Local           Foreign        Total
Project Component                                                      (in US $ million)
Extension of Infrastructure Networks
Lapraka and Bathore (Pilot)                                  1.71              1.13         2.84
Subsequent projects                                          6.41              1.85         8.26
Subtotal Extension of Infrastructure Networks                  8.12              2.98         11.10
Institutional Development                                      0.21              1.04          1.25
Project Administration Support                                 0.27              0.52         0.79
Total                                                          8.60              4.53         13.13
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                       1.14             0.48          1.61
Price Contingencies                                         0.83              0.31          1.13
Total Proiect Cost                                             10.56             5.30         15.86
22



Annex 4
Urban Land Management Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Base year = November 1997
Lapraka
Present Value o Flows(12%o)                  Fiscal Impact
Economic          Financial
Analysis          Analvsis           Taxes              Subsidies
Benefits (US$ million)            2.37               0.56         0.00
Costs (US$ million)               1.82               1.37a        1.26b             N.A.
Net Benefits (US$ million)        0.55              -0.81         -1.04             0.06'4
IRR (0/.)                        23.9%         Not computable
Bathore
Present Value of Flows(12%6)                Fiscal Impact
Economic          Financial
Analysis          Analvsis           Taxes              Subsidies
Benefits (US$ million)            1.37               0.26         0.00              N.A.
Costs (US$ million)               1.05               1.04a        0.98b             N.A.
Net Benefits (US$ million)        0.32               -0.78        -0.91             0.24 c
IRR (%)                          22.9%         Not computable
Notes:  a. Des not include the cost of tertiary infrastructure, which would be financed by beneficiaries.
b. Financing extension of infrastructure and the total subsidies for ten years.
c. Total of loss to incur to utility companies for ten years.
Summary of Benefits and Costs
Benefits. A primary direct benefit of the project will be an increase in productivity and in the amenities of
the residents through provision of essential infrastructures. The project will also increase the economic rent of the
land, and stimulate more economic use through densification.
Costs. Construction costs and operation and maintenance costs are converted to economic costs.
Main Assumptions
1.      As project benefits defined above are rather intangible and difficult to measure directly, the following
proxies are used to carry out quantitative economic analysis: (a) productivity and amenities, and (b) intensity (or
density) of housing development. These two factors can be measured quantitatively using the following tangible
proxies.
(a)     Productivity and amenities. To measure this factor, a concept of per square meter economic value for
dwelling area, whichi is a resident's willingness to pay, is introduced.' To measure this economic value.
the prevailing market price per square meter of apartments has been used with conversions (see paragraph
7).2 In general, the current economic value of a dwelling area in project areas with informal settlements is
Strictly speaking, willingness to pay for apartments and houses should differ depending on several factors, such as distance
from the business center, enviromnent, types of housing (apartments, duplex, and individual housing), age, etc. In this
analysis, a model is used based on the assumption that the economic value of dwelling per square meter is a function of the
distance from the center, using the data for apartments and houses in formal settlements developed during the last three years,
as other factors are apparently insignificant in determining this factor.
2 This analysis assumes that the current price is a reflection of willingness to pay without any influence of scarcity value of
urban housing. During the last two years, the land market has developed substantially in Tirana. The proposed project would
23



muclh lower than that of comparable areas with formal settlements. Upon completion of the project, the
value will gradually increase up to the level of comparable areas with formal settlements.
(b)     Development density in residential areas. The economic value of land in residential areas would also be
dependent on the potential for housing development. As density can be defined as the total area (in square
meters) of a dwelling space per square meter of land, it can be measured by the following formula:
Development Density = % of Area Developed x average number of floors,                  (1)
where Area Developed is defined as percentage of area occupied by buildings within the sellable area.'
2.      A realistic scenario was drawn for each subproject to set out an explicit assumption on the project impact
in the future. The details of the scenarios are summarized below (also see Table A).
(a)     Lapraka. Lapraka is located close to Tirana's city center and would become a prime location for
residential and commercial activities in the near future with reliable infrastructure. Currently, the area is
inhabited exclusively by squatters with relatively low density (percentage of Area Developed is about 20
percent) with average plot size exceeding 450 square meters.
W Iith project. Upon completion of the project, more buildings are expected to be constructed as
current residents begin selling vacant land. The single family houses with one floor, which account
for more than 90 percent of all buildings, will be replaced by either multi-story individual houses or
small complexes. Eventually, land prices will also increase, as the area will attract higher income
people. Under the scenario used for the economic analysis, it is assumed that: (i) the population of
the area will increase at a rate of 10.8 percent per annum, and (ii) the economic value of dwelling
area will increase to 75 percent of those on comparable land with formal settlements.
*   Without project. Without the project, densification will occur gradually, as the areas have already
been informally settled; a 3 percent increase in population is anticipated within the next ten years.
New development will be most likely in informal settlements with substandard one-floor buildings
and neighborhood environments will continue to deteriorate. Under the scenario used for the
economic analysis, it is assumed that: (i) the population of the area will increase at a rate of 4 percent
per annum, and (ii) the economic value of a dwelling area will remain at the current level, which is
only 60 percent of the price of comparable areas with formal settlements.
(b)     Bathore. Located about 5.8 kilometers northwest of Tirana, Bathore will become a suburban residential
area for Tirana commuters with reliable access to infrastructure. Land prices will increase substantially,
since current land values are stipulated by law and do not reflect the true market preference.
*   With project. As a result of the project, the percentage of area developed will substantially increase.
(Current land development is very scattered.) Most of the new development will be in the form of
single family houses with one floor. It is assumed that: (i) the percentage of area developed will
increase from the current 10 percent to 30 percent; (b) the average number of floors will remain the
same; and (c) the per square meter economic price of a dwelling area will increase up to 80 percent of
those in comparable areas with formal settlements. The assumption implies an increase in habitants
of 20 percent per annum during the next ten years.
*   Without project. Without the project, Bathore will slowly densify with informal settlement. There is
plenty of vacant public land around the current informal settlements, and new informal settlement
will occur in these areas. Under the scenario used for the economic analysis, it is assumed that (i) the
percentage of Area Developed will increase from the current 10 percent to 15 percent; (ii) average
number of floors will remain the same; and (iii) the per square meter economic price of a dwelling
area will remain the samne, considering the balance of possible environment degradation and
increased demand for the area.
actually supply land to the market in only a marginal quantity (as the project is planled exclusively on informal settlements
rather than vacant land); therefore the project is expected not to affect the entire supply-demand balance or substantially
decrease tlhe prevailing land price.
'total area minus areas designated for public spaces and use (schools, roads, parks, and river embankment etc.)
24



Sensitivity Analysis
3.     Sensitivity analyses has been conducted in order to assess the sensitivity of the project to various risks
such as: (a) delay in project implementation, (b) delay in the tertiary development, (c) decreased demand for
serviced land, and (d) increase in cost. In particular, the following assumptions are used for each identified risk.
(a)    Delay in project implementation. A two-year delay in the completion of primary and secondary
infrastructure. Under this scenario, the entire benefit stream is assumed to be delayed by two years.
(b)    Delav in the tertiarv development. Two-year delay in the completion of tertiary infrastructure. As in
scenario (a), the entire benefit stream is assumed to be delayed by two years.
(c)    Decreased demand for serviced land. Eventual increase in land prices are lower than the original
estimate by 50 percent. In the case of Lapraka, the estimated increase in land value is US$10 per square
meter. Under this sensitivity analysis, an increase of US$5 is assumed.
(d)    Increase in costs. A 10 percent increase in costs for all infrastructure construction.
Base Case      Scenario A     Scenario B      Scenario C    Scenario D
Lapraka          23.9%          20.4%           21.7%          14.7%           19.2%
Bathori         22.9%           20.1%          22.5%           15.5%          18.9%
25



Annex 5
Urban Land Management Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(Base year = November 1997)
Imolementation Period    O_eration Period
1998     1999     2000  | 2001    2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007
Project Cost
Investment Cost
Infrastructure            0.85     3.62     3.27    1.55    0.95
Institutional Development
and Administeration        0.49     1.75     0.27    0.13    0.10
Total Investment Cost      1.34     5.37     3.54    1.68    1.05
Operation Cost             0.04     0.22     0.39    0.46    0.51    0.51    0.51    0.51    0.51     0.51
Total Project Cost           1.38     5.59      3.93    2.14    1.56    0.51    0.51    0.51    0.51    0.51
Project Revenue
Tertiary Infrastructure              0.19     0.47    0.63    0.27
Land Development Fee       0.17     0.69     0.56    0.19    0.14
Utility Tariff             0.03     0.06     0.19    0.26    0.26    0.26    0.26    0.26     0.26    0.26
Total Project Revenue        0.20      0.94     1.22    1.08    0.67    0.26    0.26    0.26    0.26    0.26
Net Project Revenue         -1.18    -4.65    -2.71   -1.06   -0.89   -0.25   -0.25   -0.25    -0.25    -0.25
IDA financing                0.69     2.93     3.52    1.73    0.79    0.34
Net Tax Implication         -0.49    -1.72     0.81    0.67   -0.10    0.09   -0.25   -0.25    -0.25    -0.25
Main assumptions:
*   Project costs includes 10 percent plysical contingency.
*   Incremental operation and maintenance cost is 5 percent of the primary and secondary infrastructure costs.
e   Current utility tariff, which is about 50 percent of operation and maintenance costs for water, and 120 percent
for electricity, will prevail during the project implementation period.
*   Beneficiaries will be responsible for the construction of tertiary infrastructure extension.
•   Beneficiaries will pay 20 percent of on-site secondary infrastructure costs through land betterment fees upon
completion of infrastructure extension.
*   The difference in price between land with and land without the project is used as project revenue. These prices
are currently stipulated under the law. Half of the project sites are assumed to be sold at US$4 per square
meter, while another half will be leased at US$0.8 per square meter per year.
Main Conclusions:
The proposed project will have a negative US$8.39 million of negative NPV. This is mainly because of the
heavily regulated and suppressed tariff structure to recover the full operation and maintenance cost, the lack of
a mechanism to recover capital costs, and an undeveloped property tax system to fund-all of which result in a
deficiency in cost recovery for urban infrastructure development.
26



Annex 6
Urban Land Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Methods (Table A).
1.     Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank guidelines "Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", January 1996, revised August 1996 and September 1997 for civil works and goods. For
consultant services procurement will follow the Bank's guidelines "Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers". January 1997, revised September 1997. A General Procurement Notice will be published in May
1998.
2.     Responsibilitv. Procurement of works. goods and consultants will be carried out by the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport (MoPWT), in the Ministry's Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for the project. The MoPWT
has experience with procurement under a number of Bank-financed projects. especially in the procurement of civil
works. In order to ensure economic and efficient procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines, the PCU will
have a full-time officer experienced in Bank-financed procurement. The PCU will also have the support of experts
in design and supervision for preparation of procurement documents and evaluation of bids and offers.
Furthermore, a project launch workshop will be held in spring 1998 to ensure that project staff understand the
Bank's procurement procedures and requirements.  This workshop will facilitate the project start-up. The
procurement procedures are briefly summarized in Table A, and described below.
3.     Procurement arrangements under the Extension Of Essential Infrastructure Networks component. This
component will be implemented through subprojects for the construction and rehabilitation of essential
infrastructure, including access roads, water supply, sewerage, power supply and solid waste collection in
participating municipalities. Under this component, only two subprojects have been identified and the civil works
contracts for each of them are included in the procurement plan (Annex IV of PIP). In addition, requirements for
goods for water supply and solid waste collection (transformers and solid waste containers) have been combined in
several packages, and are included in the procurement plan.
4.     Because of the demand-driven nature of this part of the project, procurement packages for future
subprojects cannot be identified. Each subproject will include a procurement plan and will be subject to the Bank's
prior approval. For procurement of civil works and civil works under these subprojects, the following procurement
methods will be used.
(a)    Civil works. Contracts estimated to cost US$1,000,000 each or more will be awarded under ICB; those
below US$1,000,000 each under NCB according to Bank guidelines: and contracts below US$100,000
will be procured through the procedure applicable to procurement of small works, based on at least three
written quotations obtained from qualified contractors. Foreign contractors will be allowed to participate.
The nature of the proposed civil works is simple, and Albania has demonstrated strong capacities and
fierce competition in the emerging construction industries. The estimated total amount of civil works is
US$12.86 million (including Non-Bank-financing portion of US$1.97 million), of which the Bank would
finance up to US$7.13 million (of which US$6.78 million is for NCB and US$0.35 million is for small
works).
(b)    Goods. Goods under this component will be procured in accordance with the following procedure: (i)
goods contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 each will be procured through International
Shopping (IS); and (ii) those below US$50,000 will be procured through National Shopping (NS). This
component includes one contract for transformers (estimated to cost, US$113,700). This will be procured
through IS. It includes solid waste containers (estimated cost, US$81,000), which will be procured
through four NS contracts. These containers cannot be procured together because of different subproject
locations and different delivery times.
5.     Procurement arrangements under the Support For Institutional Development and Project Administration
and Management components. This component includes procurement of goods and consultants' services in
accordance with the detailed procurement plan in Annex IV of the PIP. The following procurement procedures
will apply.
27



(a)    Goods and Vehicles. This project component will require goods comprising vehicles and office equipment,
The procedures to be used for procurement are: (i) ICB for US$200,000 or more per contract; and (ii)
International Shopping (IS) for under US$200,000 per contract.  This component includes two IS
contracts for office equipment, (US$330.000 in total) and one IS contract for vehicles (US$120,000). The
aggregate amount for IS under this componient is US$450,000.
(b)    Consultants' Services. Consultant contracts will include services for (i) teclnical assistance to the PCU
and PMTs, and (ii) preparation of design and tender documents, contract administration, and assistance to
community organizations. Firms will be selected on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based Selection
(QCBS. estimated cost US$1.52 million in total); other individual experts needed for technical assistance
will be selected through comparisons of CVs. Teclnical support for community associations will be
procured througlh Consultants' Qualifications. Individual consultants for community association support
and project administration support estimated to cost less than $50,000 will also be procured according to
the relevant provisions in the Consultant's Guidelines. Consultants for project auditing estimated to cost
less than $50,000 will be procured under least cost selection according to the relevant provisions in the
Consultant's Guidelines. For study tours and training, the PCU will be required to develop a detailed six-
month rolling program which it will submit to the Bank for review before implementation. The plan will
give information on the proposed activities, their estimated costs, method of selecting training institutions
and locations of study tours. timetables, etc.
(c)    Other Expenditure Items. Direct costs for workshops and training, such as air tickets, fees and subsistence
allowances will be paid against receipts. Incremental Operating Costs, such as utilities, telephone, fuels.
and office space, will be procured on the basis of an annual agreed budget.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
6.     The Borrower will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement. The NCB document
will be based on the Region's Standard NCB documents, and will be submitted to the Bank in draft prior to its use.
For consultant assignments for which QCBS is used, the Bank's standard request for proposal and forms of
contracts will be used. All ICB goods and civil works contracts, all QCBS consultant contracts, all consultant
contracts to be procured under least cost selection, all consultant contracts with firms estimated to cost more than
US$50,000, all contracts with individuals estimated to cost more than US$25,000, first NCB contract for civil
works, first contracts for procurement of small works, and first international shopping contract for goods will be
subject to the Bank's prior review. All other procurement documents and procedures will be subject to the Bank's
ex-post review on a random basis. The amount of procurement subject to ex-post-review will be determined at the
time of approval of each subproject. In this regard, each supervision mission will include a procurement specialist
whose main responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and documentation, and
provide his or her findings in a separate Annex to the supervision report.
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C).
7.     The proposed Bank credit in the aggregated amount of US$10.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over
a period of six years, and the expected closing date will be March 31, 2004. It is estimated that six years will be
sufficient to implement the project, given the nature and size of the project and past experience with infrastructure
projects in Albania.
8.      Use of statements of expenses (,SOEs). Disbursements will be made upon the Bank's receipt of fully
documented applications except for: (a) contracts for works valued at less than US$1,000,000; (b) contracts for
goods costing less than US$200,000; (c) contracts with consulting firms valued at less than US$50,000; and (d)
contracts with individual consultants valued at less than US$25,000. Disbursement for these items will be made
against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the PCU and
made available to the Bank during supervision.
28



9.      Special Account. The Borrower will establish a special account for the IDA credit at the central bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA. IDA will make an authorized allocation of US$1,000,000 to the
special account for the credit. Initially, the allocation will be limited to US$500,000 until disbursement has
reached SDR 0.75 million, then the full authorized allocation can be claimed. Applications for the replenishment
of the special account will be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized,
whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary documentation, a
bank statement of the special account, a reconciliation bank statement of the special account against Bank records.
29



Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Total Cost
(including
Expenditure Category                     ICB         NCB          Other        N.B.F    contingencies)
1. Works
Extension of Infrastructure Networks               10.39       0.50"        1.97/2    12.86
(6.78)      (0.35)       (0.00)    (7.13)
2. Goods and Vehicles
Equipment and Machinery                                        0.19'3                 0.19
(0.14)                 (0.14)
Office Equipment (computes,                                    0.33'4                 0.47
printers, photocopy machines, fax                              (0.33)                 (0.33)
machines, and softwares)
Vehicles                                                       0.12/5                 0.12
(0.12)                 (0.12)
Total Goods                             0.64                   0.64
(0.59)                 (0.59)
3. Consultants' Services
Design and Supervision                                         0.55/6                 0.55
(0.55)                 (0.55)
Teclnical Assistance                                           0.97!?                  1.39
(0.97)                 (1.39)
Training and workshops                                         0.26's                 0.26
(0.26)                 (0.26)
Total Consultant's Services                            1.78                   1.78
(1.78)                 (1.78)
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental Operation Cost                                     0.15'9                 0.15
(0.08)                 (0.08)
Grand Total                10.39        3.07         1.97      15.43
(6.78)      (2.80)       (0.00)    (9.58)
Notes:    N.B.F. = Non-Bank Financed, Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
1.    To be procured on the basis of at least three written quotations (small works). This figure is indicative figure.
2.    Tertiary networks constructions to be carried out by beneficiaries.
3.    One contracts to be procured under international shopping (US$114,000 in total ), four other contracts to be
procured through national shopping (US$8 1,000 in total).
4.    Two contracts to be procured under international shopping (US$330,000 in total).
5.    One contract to be procured under international shopping (US$120,000 in total).
6.    To be procured under QCBS (US$550,000 in total). There will be at least six contracts.
7.    A contract for strategic infrastructure planning and preparation for subsequent projects to be procured under
QCBS (US$796,000), a contract estimated at US$170,000 for project implementation support to be procured
under QCBS, US$168,000 for Community Support under qualification-based selection which may include local
and international NGOs (there will be at least two contracts for community support). US$50,000 for project
audit to be procured under least cost selection. US$50,000 for Project Administration Support to be procured for
individual consultants. Salary of incremental national staff at PCU and PMTs estimated to cost US$151,000
would be paid under various contracts, national experts to be procured under qualification-based selection for
firms and CV-based selection for individuals.
8.    To be disbursed against invoices for the direct cost (ticket, accommodations, etc.).
9.    Cost to operate PCIJ and PMTs such as utilities; to be procured on the basis of an annual agreed budget.
30



Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
'C.ontracts Subject to
Expenditure      Contract Value       Procurement        Prior Review/ Estimated Total Value
Category         (Threshold)           Method                Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                   US $ millions
1. Works
>= 1,000          ICB                                   all
< 1,000           NCB                            first  /  0.500
<100              Minor Works                    first  I  0.100
2. Goods
>=200             ICB                                   all
< 200             International                  first  /  0.200
Shopping
< 50              National Shopping
3. Services
QCBS                          all    /   1.517
Least Cost                    all    /   0.050
Qualification-Based    Firms: all contracts estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more
Individuals: all contracts estimated to
cost US$25,000 or more
Estimated total value for the
review:         0.168
Training                      All   /   0.260
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:             2.894
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Total Amount  Financing Percentage
(SDR)
1. Civil Works                           4,920,000      70%
2. Goods                                                100% of foreign expenditure (ex-factory cost),
Infrastructure Extension              135,000        70% of local expenditures
Institutional Development and Project  260,000
Administration
3. Vehicles                               85,000         100% of foreign expenditure (ex-factory cost),
70% of local expenditures
4. Consultancies                                         100%
Infrastructure Extension              375,000
Institutional Development and Project  975,000
Administration
5. Incremental Operation Cost             75,000         100%
6. Unallocated                           675,000
Total    7,500,000
31



Annex 7
Urban Land Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (in US$ thousands)             280.5                     262.8
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project              33                       33
(mtlonths)
First Bank mission (identification)         4/25/1995                4/25/1995
Appraisal mission departure                 1/19/1998                1/19/1998
Negotiations                                3/15/1998                3/12/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness               6/15/1998                   / /19
Prepared by: the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, District of Tirana, Municipality of Tirana
Preparation assistance:
Japan PHRD Grant, METAP Grant. British Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project:
Name                                        Specialty
Toru Konishi                   Economist (Task Team Leader, 9/97 - present)
Margret Thalwitz             Economist (Sector Leader, Task Team Leader 95/4-97/8)
Arben Bakllamnaja                             Project Officer
Alain Bertaud                                Urban Planner
Naushad Khan                                  Procurement
Janis Bernstein                                Sociologist
Piotr Wilczynski                      Environment Specialist (Review)
Larry Hannah                          Urban Planner (Peer Reviewer)
Bob Buckley                          Urban Planner (Peer Reviewer)
David Cook (Consultant, METAP)                   Municipal Management
Michael Green (Consultant, METAP)                   Municipal Engineer
Bruce Pollock (Consultant, METAP)                 Infrastructure Engineer
32



Annex 8
Urban Land Management Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implemenitation Plan
B. Detailed Cost Tables
C. Bank Staff Assessments
C. 1 Economic Analysis
D. Bibliography - List of Other Reports. Studies and Inputs for Project Preparation
1.     Land Management Program, Preliminary Structure Plan for Greater Tirana,
March 1995, USAID/PADCO. GHK International. Unit for Housing and
Urbanization, GSD, Harvard University.
2.     Land Development Pilot Project in Western Tirana: A Public/Private
Collaborative Approach, March 1995, USAID/PADCO, GHK International,
Unit for Housing and Urbanization. GSD, Harvard University.
3.     Albania - Housing Policy, June 1995. USAID/PADCO, Al Hirshen.
4.     Issues Affecting the Feasibility of the 70 Hectare Site Project, August 1995,
USAID/PADCO.
5.     Kavaja Road Pilot Urban Land Development Project, Feasibility Study,
November 1995, USAID/PADCO, David Sims.
6.     Tirana Neighborhood Improvement and Infrastructure Upgrading Program.
March 1996. Land Management Task Force of the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport. Tirana Municipality and District, Unit for
Housing and Urbanization, GSD, Harvard University.
7.     Social - Economic Updating for Bregulumasi Pilot Site, October 1997, Co-
PLAN, Albanian NGO, Center for Habitat Development.
8.     Socio - Economic Report on Pilot Sites, December 1997, Unit for Housing and Urbanization,
GSD,  Harvard University.
33



Annex 9
Urban Land Development Project
Socio-Economic Status of Project Beneficiaries
Urbanization in Greater Tirana
1.     The population of Greater Tirana at the end of year 1997 is approaching approximately 575,000,
increasing at a rate of about 30.000 annually. or 6,500 families. A complete range of urban services is available
only in the old city, developed before 1990 and housing about 300,000 residents. The majority of these services are
unreliable and poorly maintained. Investments in new and rehabilitated primary infrastructure lines, temporarily
suspended during the fiscal and political crisis in 1997. are expected eventually to result in upgraded services in
the old city. However, the newer zones, both fonnal and informal, lie outside these planned improvements.
2.     The population is likely to reach one million by 2012 and unless there are radical policy changes the
number of people living in under-serviced neighborhoods, mainly low- and middle-income families, will be on the
order of 600,000. Surveys of recent urbanization throughout the country reveal that low-to-middle-income
settlements, some of whiclh mnay be infonnally developed, can be built to acceptable standards. Households are
willing and able to invest in housing construction in spite of the uncertainties caused by the informnality of
subdivision, permitting, land tenure, and lack of infrastructure. Investments in housing structure typically range
from US$5,000 to $10,000 per family for low-to-middle-income units.
3.     Context of (Urban Poverty.  The World Bank's poverty assessment published in 1996 defines the
thresholds of annual income for relative poverty and absolute poverty as US$1,750 and $1,160, respectively.
Household income and expenditure surveys in the initial project sites were carried out during project preparation. It
was found that reported incomes are generally understated and need upward adjustment by a factor of two to three.
as families often either have temporary jobs (usually in the informal economy) or receive assistance from family
members working abroad. Tables 1.1 and 1.2 show the distribution of adjusted household incomes of residents,
and household expenditure patterns for farnilies for two of the project sites. Even using adjusted household income,
absolute and relative poverty are estimated to occur at the 25th and 35th percentiles, respectively, within the
project areas.
Table 1.1: Distribution of Adjusted Household Income' in Initial Project Sites
Lowest 25th percentile     Median 50th percentile    Highest 75th percentile
(adjustment factor 2)     (adjustment factor 2.5)   (adjustment factor 3. 0)
X________ _  U,S's$                   UIS$                       US$
Lapraka                      1,160                      2,610                     6,360
Bathore                      1,690                      3,275                     5,865
Mihal Grameno                1,990                      3,475                     5,610
Table 1.2: Expenditure Patterns of Low Income Families within Lapraka
Allocation of
Expenditures    Absolute Poverty Level   Relative Poverty Level2
Income Percentile                                        25th                    35th
Annual Income ([US')                                     1,160                   1,750
Food                                70%                  825                     1,225
Transportation and Misc.            15%                                           260
Extraordinary Expenditures           6%                   70                      105
Balance for housing                 9%                    90                      160
Adjusted household income was estimated by multiplying reported income by the adjustment factor, which was derived from
an analysis of household expenditures against reported incomes within the three sites. In addition, the amount invested in
housing over a four-year period was used as a proxy to measure the ability of households to generate funding.
2 The 1998 poverty line (30th income percentile) used by the World Bank is equivalent to one dollar per day per capita per
month. hi Lapraka, for a typical family this would be $1,870 per year.
34



4.     Enmplovment and Incomes. There are serious issues of unemployment and underemployment in Tirana
and the creation of employment opportunities is a stated goal of the government of Albania. Table 1.3 shows
employment data for persons legally eligible to work, for Lapraka and Bathore.
Table 1.3: Distribution of Employment
Type of Employment                                       Percentages
Fonnal Employment                                        22%
Self-employment                                          17%
Pensions or State Assistance                             29%
Informal or Temporary                                    20%
Other                                                    12%
Soutrce: "Social-Economic U pdating for Lapraka Pilot Site." Co-Plan Center for Habitat Development. November 1997
5.     In general, the residents in the initial project sites, newly settled and living in under-serviced areas. are
engaged in either the informal or marginal sectors of the econotny. The social assessment revealed that about one-
fourth of the adult project beneficiaries are unemployed, and that 60 percent of them are underemployed. A
substantial percentage of project beneficiaries are estimated to have supplemental income or combine family
incomes within households to meet household expenditures. Direct interviews with about 90 beneficiaries in 50
households in Lapraka revealed that approximately 1.8 persons per household had sources of income. About 30
percent of the beneficiaries are supported by pensions and 20 percent by remittances.
6.     As areas such as Lapraka increase in density, there is increasing evidence of business activities within the
project area. Since 1995. despite the civil turmoil in 1997, about 30 small-scale enterprises such as construction
materials and fabrication, retail, and repair shops have opened up. This trend is expected to accelerate if secure
infrastructure services are provided. The Government's goal of creating new jobs can only be achieved if private
sector commercial activity is promoted and encouraged by the provision of efficient and reliable urban
infrastructure and services.
7.     Within the Greater Tirana urban area, which is emerging as the major economic center, reliable
infrastructure services that can leverage the economic and job creation potential of smaller and medium scale
businesses are severely lacking. The Urban Initiatives Program will begin the process of change by providing
secondary and tertiary infrastructure in areas chosen for immediate action.
8.     Land Issues.  Population migration and the resulting demand for housing have overwhelmed the
regulatory system with processing plans and housing permits. Within the Greater Tirana area, it is estimated that
new residential growth is consuming between 150 and 200 hectares a year. The majority of this growth is
occurring in an unplanned manner, with serious long-term enviromnental, social, and economic consequences.
9.     Housing and Infrastructure. It is estimated that approximately 50,000 houses were built in the Tirana
region since the early 1990s. of which 80 percent were privately built. Indeed, residential construction activity has
been one of the most important contributors to economic growth.
10.    Households are financing housing construction through a combination of sources that usually include the
household incomes of extended families. Survey data and field interviews point to a general pattern where housing
is financed from three sources: (a) savings and the sale of assets such as land or other properties; (b) salaries and
current incomes, including remittances; and (c) borrowing, generally from relatives. Within the more built up
areas of Tirana, landowners typically enter into an agreement with a builder/developer and receive units equal to
approximately 20 percent of the value of the investment.
11.    Within the informal areas, owners typically build houses over time. It is estimated that on average it takes
two to four years to advance from plot occupancy to a one-floor house, depending on incomes and the ability to
mobilize additional resources. Household investment typically ranges from an initial investment of less than
US$1,000 for a wooden barrack under 90 square meters, to US$10,000 for a higher-quality one-story house. In the
Bathore pilot site, for example, 78 households living in 65 houses have invested an average of almost US$4,000
per household or US$4,700 per structure. This is equivalent to US$100 a month over a four-year construction
cycle.
35



12.    The dynamic nature of build-out in informal settlements is evidenced by the fact that, in Bathore, 46
percent of the houses that are under construction have families already living in them. The incremental nature of
housing investments is further evidenced in Lapraka, where nearly 70 percent of the houses have flat roofs, an
indication that the households are planning to expand vertically.
13.    Infrastructure is often financed througlh joint agreements witlh neighbors.  In inforinal communities,
typical costs associated with houselhold connections on an individual parcel range from US$300 to US$400 for a
septic tank or connection to a sewerage line, water connection, electricity, and an unpaved access road. In the
Bathore pilot site, houselholds have invested an average of US$400 per parcel for infrastructure improvements
without fonnal approvals.
14.    Development of Community Groups and ,ocial Networks. Community groups can and do influence the
design, standards, phasing, and implementation of infrastructure improvements. Field interviews confirm that in
many informal settlements parcel layouts, setbacks, and strategies for addressing infrastructure needs are often
worked out among family members or groups fonned from households originating in the same village. In some
areas, families or groups may nominate a member to a newly formed neighborhood association. In addition, NGOs
and neighborhood associations are developing initiatives and learning to present their concerns more effectively to
government officials. Among both officials and residents, recognition of the necessity of providing infrastructure
and developing practical mechanisms to regularize land tenure is gaining momentum.
15.    These formal and informal social structures can provide an important forum for identifying community
leaders and involving residents in the planning of infrastructure improvements and maintenance in their
communities. Under the current legal structure in Albania, neighborhood associations can be formed to help
organize and implement activities under a neighborhood initiatives program.  In Lapraka, the Community
Association was formed in 1994 and in Bathore, residents in the pilot site have requested formal registration of
their newly formed association.
16.    Financial Impacts. On the average, a typical 300-square-meter parcel with a house and services provided
in a community such as Lapraka costs US$10,500. The traditional approach to providing housing requires that the
government finance 100 percent of the capital cost of a delivered unit, recovering the investment over time from
the new owners, and consequently incurring the risk of failing to recoup a substantial portion of the total
investment. The project takes a different approach, capitalizing instead on the willingness of homeowners to
invest in housing and infrastructure. The basic strategy is to "unbundle" the traditional housing package. Under
the project, the government's contribution is equal to 17 percent of the total cost for a serviced parcel. Even in
cases that involve government land, where there is risk of non-payment or payment over an extended period, the
level of investment and risk to the government is substantially lower than in traditional projects.
Table 1.4: Typical Allocation of Housing and Infrastructure Costs per Parcel
Cost     Government Contribution Building Owners Costs
Land                       $2,400               0                  $2,400
House                      $5,000               0                  $5,000
Secondary Infrastructure   $2,250             $1,800                $450
Tertiary Infrastructure     $850                0                   $850
Total                      $10,500            $1,800               $8,700
Percent Contribution                           17%                  83%
17.    In theory, programs which provide infrastructure to cope with the annual increase of housing stock would
have a financial impact on the municipal and national government budgets of at least US$12 miillion per annum1
(for secondary plus primary costs). At the present time this is unaffordable and underscores the need for a realistic
utility tariff structure.
Estimated as the average cost for secondary infrastructure of $1,800 times 6,500 households fonning each year in the formnal
and informal housing markets.
36



18.    It is not beyond the bounds of credibility, however, to expect building owners to fund their share of the
costs, previously estimated at US$56 million per annum.1 At the individual household level, the private sector is
already building houses at a total cost of about US$32 million per annum.2
19.    The primary incentives to building owners to increase expenditures on housing are the prospect of having
a marketable asset at the end of the process and, in addition, having a house that is legally connected to the
infrastructure networks and likely to receive a higher level of service.
20.    Private-Sector Responses to the Current Situation. The Government's inability to finance infrastructure
has resulted in a variety of practical responses from residents. Whenever possible. they are tapping into existing
systems through formal and informal arrangements with utility companies. There have been many instances of
residents grouping together to provide infrastructure and upgraded roads. In new, formal, higher-income
settlements. developers are reaching agreements with the local government to construct their own infrastructure
networks within the site.
21.    In Lapraka, the adoption of the Urban Concept Plan in 1995 and the upgrading of roads by the community
association during 1996-97 prompted an immediate and visible upsurge of new housing investment in a more
regularized and structured pattern. Densification, through subdivision of parcels and vertical expansion of housing
within the site, is expected to accelerate in response to the provision of infrastructure and increases in land prices.
22.    These pragmatic initiatives on the part of residents should be encouraged, but without a proper response
from Government, many of the economic and environmental costs associated with unregulated growth are being
externalized. Infrastructure systems will overload from unplanned connections and environmental conditions in
public spaces will continue to rapidly deteriorate.
23.    Clearly, shelters and infrastructure are being constructed and settlements are being created in the absence
of supportive government policies. The living environment, however, is unsatisfactory and the social, economic,
and environmental consequences of ignoring the rapid growth of Tirana will undoubtedly have long-term
detrimental impacts. Moreover, it is equally clear that organized communities can help themselves and that
government investment in infrastructure can leverage and guide community and private investments.
24.    These conclusions are supported by recent international experience. Feasibility studies carried out by the
Tirana Land Management Task Force from 1995 to 1997 indicated that, ideally, the project should:
- Be demand driven, with the community paying, up front, a contribution to infrastructure costs.
i Involve residents and the community in all aspects of the design and implementation process through
empowerment and direct participation.
*  Create responsive control by means of local government linkages in the planning and allocation of resources
for service improvements.
* Strengthen the capability of local government to capitalize on the willingness of residents to participate within
a realistic urban planning and regulatory structure.
25.    In short, a demand-driven. community-empowered, participatory approach is essential for dealing
effectively with the growth issues facing the city of Tirana today. This approach can be successfully applied in
both formal and informal neighborhoods.
26.    Affordability and Willingness to Pay. Current cost estimates based on detailed designs indicate that
within Lapraka and Bathore the resident contribution (20 percent of cost) for secondary infrastructure will be
approximately $450 for a 300-square-meter parcel. Residents will also be responsible for the cost of tertiary
infrastructure, which can be broken into labor ($530) and materials ($320), and for the purchase of land at a rate
agreed upon with local authorities. The total investment in infrastructure for a homeowner would be equivalent to
15-17 percent of a serviced parcel with a house. In meetings between residents and local authorities, the residents
felt that this level of infrastructure cost was both fair and affordable.
Estimated as the average cost to the homeowner of $8,700 for a serviced parcel times 6,500 units.
2 Estimated as the average investment of $5,000 per household times 6,500 units.
37



27.     Furthennore, the project is designed to provide a variety of affordability buffers, especially for those below
the 35th income percentile. These include:
*   An option for residents to work together on a street or subdivision basis. This option builds on
existing practices that provide a financial buffer for poorer households. Households can work out
infonnal agreements with neighbors or provide contributions in the form of specific skills and labor
(this should be monitored to assess the impact).
*   Registering smaller plots and selling land prior to fonnal registration to generate income and lower
the cost share of infrastructure.
*   Incremental servicing.
*   Phased payment schedules for land purchase.
*   Deferring investments in housing until the infrastructure costs have been paid.
38



ANNEX 10: Projection of Tiranas Population and Infrastructure Coverage
A.  Greater Tirana Demographic Projection
population growth rate  1    6.5%1    6.001 5.501 5.00] 4.5%1    4.0%1    4.0%1    2003                    40%1      4005
see from PSPGT, tab.2 page 23, much lower assumotions for 1998 and beyond
Total aPDulation       543,800   576,428   608,132   638,538   667,272   693,963   721,722   750,591   780,614   811,839
Additional yearly population      32,628    31,704    30.407    28.734    26.691    27,759    28.869    30.024    31.225
Pp ulation with defficient infrastructure
Pre 90 built-uD         35,000    35.000    35,000    35.000    35,000    35,000    35,000    30.000    22.500    12,500
New construction       191,502   224,130   253,747   279,858   302,568   320,431   338,224   348,279   348,755   333,735
|Villaaes ansqatr
Total:                 226.502   259.130   288.747   314.858   337.568   355.431   373.224   378.279   371.255   346.235
Percent of total pop.      42%       45%       47%       49%       51%       51%       52%       50%        48%       43%
Population with adequate infrastrucure
1 317.298   317.298   319.385   323.680   329.704   338.532   348.498   372.312   409.359   465.603
B. Upgrading/Development Scenario (number of people)
Target upgrading/development per year
Pre 90 built-up                      -         -         -         -          -         -       5,000     7,500    10,000
people in new constructions          -  |   2,087      4,295      6,024 I   8,828 I   9,966    18,814    29,547    46,244
Villages and squatters
Total per year                       -       2,087     4,295      6,024     8,828     9,966    23,814    37,047    56,244
cumulative number of people          -       2,087     6,383    12,406    21,234    31,200    55,014    92,061   148,306
cumulative number of households      -         464      1,418    2,757     4,719      6,933    12,225    20,458    32,957
C.  Area upgraded or developed (ha)                     Density yearly increme     24                     Density yeadly increme
Project implementation Schedule       0%       15%       20%       20%       24%       21%
at a density of p/ha:                 53        77       101       125       149       172        192       211       230
Area upgraded /year    (ha)                     27        36        36        43        38         80       140       200
Cumulativenumberofhectares           -          27        63       100       143       181       261        401       601
D.  Cost and investments projection (million 1996 us S)
1. Government contribution (prima  and secondary infra)
Off site prima $ 25,117 /hectare     -        0.68       0.91      0.91      1.09      0.95      2.01      3.52      5.02
Offsiteseco  $  4,560 Ihectare       -        0.12       0.17      0.17      0.20      0.17      0.36      0.64      0.91
on sitesecon $ 52,750 /hectare       -         1.43      1.91      1.91      2.29      2.01      4.22      7.38     10.55
-        2.24      2.98      2.98      3.58      3.13      6.59     11.54      16.49
cumulative                    -        2.24      5.22      8.21     11.79     14.92     21.51      33.05     49.54
2. Households contribution (tertiary infra.)
tertiary infra  $   459 /household   -        0.21       0.44      0.61      0.90      1.02      2.43      3.77      5.73
cumulative                           -        0.21       0.65      1.26      2.16      3.18      5.61      9.38     15.11
3. Households on site investments
Number of houses built               -         464       955      1,339     1,962     2,215     4,181     6,566    10,277
cumulative number of houses built:   -         464      1,418    2,757     4,719      6,933    11,114    17,680    27,957
Av. house cash cost   $  6,000       -        2.78       8.51     16.54     28.31     41.60     66.69    106.08    167.74
4. Households beterment fee paymentsl from all occupant of land)
Averagefee/ net m2    $   2.00       -        0.35       0.47      0.47      0.56      0.49      1.04      1.82      2.60
Cumulative fee                       -        0.35      0.82       1.29      1.86      2.36      3.39      5.21      7.81
S. Households land payments (from informal subdivisions)
Average landfee/m2    $   8.00       -        0.99       1.32      1.32      1.58      1.38      2.91      5.10      7.28
Cumulative land fee                  -        0.99      2.31       3.62      5.20      6.59      9.50     14.60     21.88
cost per HH   $  2,152       4.50 people/hh
Greater Tirana Population Projection.by I rastructure level
900.000         3 Populationwth  - project period
.         ~~~adequate
800,000         infrastrucure
~~,Uu,uuu  13 New construction
700,000
600,000        *Pre 90 built-up
Q 500,000
E. 400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
1996       1997       1998       1999      2000       2001        2002       2003       2004       2005       2006
39



Annex I I
Status of Bank Group Operations in Albania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                    _disbursements a/                     Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                          IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj  :   m  Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
AL-PE-8256    IDA 25240    1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                AGRIC. SECTOR ADJ. C          0.00      20.00             0.00           .65        .38       0.00       5             S
AL-PE-8258    IDA 24990    1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                TRANSPORT/INFRASTRUC          0.00       18.00            0.00          3.48       2.64       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8268     IDA 24920    1993  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               TECHNICAL ASST.               0.00        4.00            0.00            .59       .43       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8269    IDA 26330    1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                SCHOOL RZEAR. AND CA          0.00        9.60            0.00          3.12        .64       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8260     IDA 26100    1994  REPUBLIC OF ALRANIA               DURRES WATER SVPPLY           0.00       11.60            0.00          6.22       1.65       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8252     IDA 25440    1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               LABOR MASIET DEVELOP          0.00        5.40            0.00          1.84       1.74       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8265    IDA 25430    1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                SOCIAL SAFETY NET             0.00        5.50            0.00          1.26       1.14       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8266    IDA 25340    1994  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                HOUSING                       0.00       15.00            0.00          1.43        .85       0.00       U             U
AL-PE-8267    IDA 27320    1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                RURAL ROADS                   0.00       15.00            0.00          9.68       3.25       0.00       U             S
AL-PE-8273    IDA 26800    1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                RURAI; DEVELOPMENT            0.00        6.00            0.00          1.57       -.14       0.00       S             s
AL-PE-8253    IDA 26590    1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                HEALTH SERVICES RENA          0.00       12.40            0.00          8.24       4.30       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8270     IDA 26520    1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               IRRIGATION REHABILIT          0.00       10.00            0.00          1.26      -2.12       0.00      HS            HS
AL-PE-8257     IDA 26490    1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA               EFSAC                         0.00       15.00            0.00          7.35       7.40       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8272    IDA 26460    1995  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZ.          0.00        4.00            0.00          1.70       1.63       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-36060   IDA 28880    1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                NATIONAL ROADS                0.00      25.00             0.00         22.18       1.42       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-8271    IDA 28460    1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                FORESTRY                      0,00        8.00            0.00          6.47        .99       0.00       S             U
AL-PE-34491   IDA 28260    1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                POWER TRANSM. & DIST          0.00       29.50            0.00         19.94       4.77       0.00       U             U
AL-PE-35787   IDA 27950    1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                AGROPROCESSING DEVEL          0.00        6.00            0.00          4.32       2.34       0.00       U             U
AL-PE-34181   IDA 27700    1996  REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA                URBAN WORKS & MICRO           0.00       4.00             0.00          1.29        .93       0.00       S             S
AL-PE-51602   IDA 30380    1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE                PRIVATE INDUSTRY REC          0.00       10.25            0.00         10.13       0.00       0.00
AL-PE-54384   IDA 30160    1998  ALBANIA                            RECOVERY PROG. TA             0.00       5.00             0.00          S.00        .16       0.00
AL-PE-53357   IDA 30150    1998  GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA              REHABILITATION                0.00      25.00             0.00         24.72       0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                             0.00     264.25             0.00        142.44      34.40       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 116.16               49.92              166.08
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 264.25               48.50              312.75
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :               142.44                  .03             142.47
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (NS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U   unsatisfactory, NU -
highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
40



Annex 12
Urban Land Management
Albania at a glance                                               8/28/97
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-      r
Albania      Asia  income        Development diamond
Population mid-1996 (ml/lions)                           3.3       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               800      2,180    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                  2.6     1,043    1,967
T
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           02        0 3       1.4      GNP                              Gross
Laborforce (%)                                           08        0.5       1.8     per               '              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita              7         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               20
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   39         65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birlhs)                 30         26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                    ..                 78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    98         97      104    !
Male                                                   98         97      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 99         97      101    ;
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996    r
Economic ratlos^
GDP (billions US$)                               -       2.0       2.4       2.6
Gross domestc investment/GDP                    ..    30.4        16.7      18.0             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP                ..    16.2       12.5      13.4             O
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..    28.3       -5.3      -7.5
Gross national savings/GDP                       ..    28.7        9.3      10.3
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    -1.9       -7.5      -7.7                     /
Interest payments/GDP                           -. ..              0.4      0.4      Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    .       ..      29.4      29.6
Total debt service/exports                       .        ..       0.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                         32.6        ..
Present value of debt/exports                                    1967                             Indebtedness
197545  1986-96      1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                        Albania
GDP                                            0 0       8.9       8.2                         Lower-
GNP per capita                                           9.7       5.9L                              middle-income group
Exports of goodsand services            .         .    267        21.2       .  ,
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                           Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                     ..    27.9        55.8      55.9     ISO
Industry                                        ..    34.9        21.4     21.2      loc.A
Manufacturing                                  ..       ..         ..       ..
Services                                        ..    37.2        22.8     22.9
Private consumption                             ..    62.6        91.7      95.2     -so           92   93   94   95   96
General government consumption                   .       92       13.6      12.3                     GDI   -0GDP
Imports of goods and services                    ..    18.4       34.5     38 9    1
197545  1986-96       1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and imports (h)
Agriculture                                     ..      3.5       10.6       8.1     200
Industry                                               -9/1        6.0      7.7       s
Manufacturing
Services                                                2.6        7.6       8.9     100
Private consumption                                      0.1       4.5      12.3      s,
General government consumption                           0.0       9.1      -2.2      0
Gross domestic investment                        .      -0 1      28.0      16.6     -5s     at   S2   92   94   95   90
Imports of goods and services                                      4.8      19.9                   Exporns    S  Imports
Gross national product                           .      00        11.3       7.5
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing,,the diamond will
be incomplete
41



Albania at a glance
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1996      1996    r
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              300i
Consumer prices                                   ..        ..        7.9     12.1   i 0
Implicit GDP deflator                              .       0.4        9.8     11.9      200
100
Government finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                   ..    50.6         23.9     18.9        90    91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                             .      24.4       -2.0      -7.3               ,      GDP def. --O_CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            .      -1.8      -10.2    -11.8
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996    r
(millions US$)                                                                          Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                                  205       228
Chromium and derivatives                                             25       26       ooi
Tobacco                                                              23         7      7000
Manufactures                                                        131      165      600
ace
Total imports (cif).                                                 679       879      400l
Food                                             .         ..       193      248      30
Fuel and energy                           1376                                45    1 200
Capital goods                                    .153                        198    ! 1I
Export price index (1987=100)                      ..90   9    92   93   94   95   s
Import price index (1987=100)                      ..       ..         ..        ..                    pros    *Imports
Terms oftrade (1987=100)                           ..       ..         ..        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                          Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      ..     319        302       385
Imports of goods and services                      ..     363        836     1,050
Resource balance                                  ..      -44       -534      -665
Net income                                         .       441        53        39
Net current transfers                             ..        6        300       425      4t
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers                ..      -37       -181      -201
Financing items (net)                                      20        207       249
Changes in net reserves                            ..      17        -26       48       80
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)               ..       83        264       307
Conversion rate (locaYUS$)                         ..      8.6       92.7    104.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..       ..       710       771
IBRD                                             -0                            0                                 B
IDA                                             ..       ..        109       137    1            124            137
Total debt service                                 .        ..2
IBRD                                                                 0 2
IDA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~556
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..        ..        77         ..                                     24
Official creditors                              ..        ..        60
Pnvate creditors                                ..        ..         0
Foreign direct investment                        ..       ..        70
Portfolio equity                                ..        ..         0                                     E E
355
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..        ..        36        62      A - IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                    .        ..        43        32    IB - IDA     D - Other mulblateral   F - Prrvate
Prncipal repayments                             ..         ..                  0      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flovs                                        ..       ..        43        32_                       _       _        _
Interest payments                               ..        ..         1         1
Net transfers                                   ..        ..        43        31
Development Economics                                                                                                       8/28/97
42



ECSRE
P:\albania\infra\landdev\4board\bdpack\pad.doc
04/22/98 12:20 PM
43



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28467
18"W IB°30'19'00'                                     19°30'                     20'00'                      2                          21'00'
FED.    REP.    0    YUGOSLAVIA
-'  CR  TIA )                                                               9                  ,Ž>  (SERBIA / M   EDONIA)
42'30'                                                                        *42230
ALBANIA
o    SELECTED CITES                -'                                                                                      /
*  DISTRICT CENTERS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL-                                      I.    I      bI          urn
NATIONAt ROADS
RAILROADS                                                      .P
,--~RIVERSFuhKg    Attu
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                   -                         u                urrel
_   - .  INTERNATJONAL BOUNDARIES               -MA
ELEVATIONSINMETERS:                                                                                                               F.Y.R. 4RR30
(00                                 kBLJLQIZE N <MACEDONIA
1200-                                            V    0     _.-  T   ' R                   $           ,R 
Adcriati c                                  -bJu .    oC~sc,n
41'00' ~ ~   ~    20
KX]                               Sea@gX                                                                                                               0
10isn~~~op"oIproda    by  pVa~~~~~~    lob    tV  MB406Ka 
The &5ook4o,>U5sSz;M--XSe . .oo, de-n-,, ons- on
*honsnonino4ossoryt55 5yste -o oR in' 4is 6gAoR Kaari                                .X 0.,,h S"
i         ,on~  t    -rA   cl ia    tic                                                                                      P
4000 %   'b't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4V0
OWE NQ                       RUSSNIAJE
<-\\  X   XOS AYA .  f  81r                  >         t                      9    . 9  . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:." . .6       EE 
0  \    U:,  i _   BULGAC                              -      g           >1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ka-gg  ,ocp     G                      (,
0    0 RARE     ~      p                                             FAT$EPR
KILCMET-.                                                                                     PERET rOL
afv <GRm    TURK                                                9 aB<^ jkr
_ \.t -3 -y
REIARUS\ .AND
DERMANYI  4.,  ,~~~~~~~~.r    ~~TeIneee>                                    -   N ~~~~P RM     V
24                ~~~~~~POLAND)
~~LL0. ~~~NUKRAINE
*    '.J¼...r  .4fr1( ~~REP.,
ow   ~ AUSTIA        ~           .   M\
~~10 i'..  .,t    HUNGARY          N40,00'                                                                                                                  ,0 
C           (r?~~~~MCII~        RODMANIAV'1O(Vh  
'A~ ~ ~ R                                                  SnoULGTleeq                               GREECE
10n~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~19~300'00                                                              20'30'21-0
DECEMBERO1996



ALBANIA
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                       .IA
TIRZANA CITFY 
POSSIBLE PROJECT SITES
ROADS
RIVERS
I     LAKES
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iv r 
f -\FED. REP. OF
*  *YUGOSLAVtA
<A    A>'
Thir, -op 0pod-rrod by th. Mop DeOlgo-UoitooWodd ook.                                                                                             0      500    1000   15000           w
70                       ~~~~~~~TIre bo-d-rie, color, deno-ooiorsodoyohrrro,rto                                                                                                          
F=9    GREECE                 sh°or - hi rop do -ot htpy, o th prt o( The World Bo-k                                                                                                      METERS
Gop, -y jdgrr rort tor log1 oto of suc tetory, orory
~~~~0-                   -~~~~~~~~ed-,-met or or-pt-ro of -br hondrio



IBRD 2941 1
ALBANIA
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
BATHORE PILOT SITE
*-' BUILDINGS (1 996)       -                              \\                         |;
ROADS                                                                                                 
NEW ROADS              \t*\                                                             -
- CHANNEL                                         ;                     \\
< .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ho ,o hi= eo doot*tpy n h oto h Word oo
<  :>,  GR EECE                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G oup, any judgmPent on themY lega sthtartu of o hy Waoorld Borny
_   X    $  ut                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eadorsemeot or acceptance of such boundaries.
APRIL1 998



>             ~                                                                                                     ALBANIA
URBAN LAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ON*'  BUILDINGS(1997l t-^i*+>&)!,,6/D
ALBANIA'>~~~~  0  40      80      120      160                                                                   (~4wi,,                                 #
TROADS     psdce kp he M   Dsign  n  f T  W  /ank.                                                                                                                                                                  I
masnPARCELS   ,   o   e n   toss a    n   er i  m ian
CD E~~~ tisac nn th .  Thsomap dantos prodce an the MpaDsigntaof The Wasld Eank                                                                                                                                                         -. @z  w 
is  f              ~    ~~~~~~GREECE  Guncp,  any    jadg sent  an  theleaa statuot y  rlof y   oany t.ctay   as  any
s0 Ki erl~~~~~~~~~esdarsemnscn ar acceptance af sack kacadaris _
v,  14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~IE



