Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2417 
Project Name 
Agricultural Pollution Control Project  
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P100639 
GEF Focal Area 
I-International waters 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERMENT OF CROATIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Water Management 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 18, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Black Sea has suffered severe environmental damage over the past decades mainly due to 
eutrophication, coastal erosion, conversion of wetlands, increased nutrient run-off from agriculture, 
invasion of exotic species, and inadequate resource management, all of which has led to a decline of its 
biological diversity, loss of habitat and long-term ecological changes.  Black Sea Environmental Program 
(BSEP) studies reveal that 58% of the total dissolved nitrogen and 66% of the total dissolved 
phosphorous flowing into the Black Sea come from the Danube river basin.  More than half of all nutrient 
loads into the Danube river originate from agriculture, about one-fourth from private households and 
about 10-13% from industry.   
 
In Croatia, the Danube river, as well as its tributaries, the Sava and Drava, drain
 sixty percent of Croatia’s 
territory (approximately 33,940 sq km out of a total of 56,538 sq km). The three rivers flow southeast, 
through the Pannonian plains (labeled the breadbasket of Croatia) that comprise nearly half of Croatia and 
make up the bulk of Croatia’s agricultural lands.  The fact that the entire Pannonian region drains into the 
Danube river and its tributaries underscores the significant direct impact of the ongoing agricultural 
practices in the region on the waters of the Danube.  It is estimated that agriculture accounts for 53% of 
the total nitrogen load in the surface water of the Croatian Danube basin.  The Croatian agricultural sector 
is characterized by intensive agricultural and livestock production, including inter alia, high fertilizer and 
pesticide applications, narrow crop rotation, lack of mixed cropping, the use of limited number of breeds 
and varieties, drainage of wetlands and their conversion to arable land, removal of hedges and trees from 
agricultural lands as well as inadequate manure storage, handling and application.  These have resulted 
most notably in increasing water pollution, lowered agricultural productivity and efficiency, loss of soil 
fertility, adverse health conditions for the rural communities, and a decrease in species and habitat 
biodiversity.  
 
Reduction of nutrient run-off into the Danube River from agriculture has been accorded priority status by 
the government of Croatia and forms an integral part of the country’s environmental strategy.  The 
government is a signatory to the Environmental Program for the Danube River Basin and the Danube 
River Protection Agency and is committed to honoring its international commitments under these 
Page  2
conventions.
 
The government’s commitment to nutrient management also reflects the country’s 
commitment to moving towards EU accession by addressing the EU Nitrate Directive and putting in place 
EU-compliant agri-environment policies, and measures for their enforcement. Candidate countries, such 
as Croatia, are strongly encouraged to mainstream environmental considerations into agriculture policy 
because the adoption of good agriculture practices is one of the key pre-conditions for absorbing EU pre-
accession assistance targeting rural development (SAPARD and future IPA programs) and would 
ultimately strongly influence Croatia’s CAP entitlement level upon becoming a member state.   
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement
.
The Bank has considerable experience with projects related to reduction 
and management of nutrient pollution from agriculture. Under the Danube-Black Sea Strategic 
Partnership Program, several such initiatives are ongoing: Romania, Moldova, Turkey, and Bulgaria.  The 
proposed project also addresses an important concern indicated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 
for Croatia, viz. protecting the environment.  The CAS specifically points to the urgent need to address 
environmental degradation by, 
inter alia
,
cleaning up contaminated rivers and water sources, restoring 
marginal agricultural lands, and improving management practices for water.  Project interventions will be 
designed to address these environmental issues which will have the added benefit of improving the 
livelihoods of populations in the affected areas.  The proposed project is also consistent with the Croatia 
CAS objective to assist the country to achieve its EU membership aspirations. 
 
Croatia’s committed efforts towards EU accession, the favorable political climate and the recognition of 
the links between sustainable agriculture and the environment provide an excellent window of 
opportunity for the Bank and GEF to assist the country in undertaking a nutrient reduction program as 
part of its EU-mandated AE Program. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The development objective of the project is to increase significantly the use of environmentally friendly 
agricultural practices by farmers in Croatia’s Pannonian plain in order to reduce nutrient discharge from 
agricultural sources to surface and ground water bodies.  The project is envisaged as a pilot activity that 
would assist the Government of Croatia to: (i) develop mitigating measures for nutrient reduction from 
agricultural sources to surface and ground water bodies; (ii) implement select agri-environment measures, 
including strengthening of national policy and enforcement; and (iii) undertake a public awareness 
campaign that would disseminate the knowledge about the choices the farming community will have at its 
disposal while responding to the more stringent requirements for reducing nutrient loads (nitrogen and 
phosphorous) entering local water bodies. 
 
Project Global Environmental Objectives
:
The global environmental objective of the project is to reduce 
the discharge of nutrients into surface and groundwater in watersheds draining into the Danube River and 
Black Sea.  The project will implement priority actions identified in the Black Sea/Danube Strategic 
Partnership - Nutrient Reduction Investment Fund, Black Sea Strategic Action Plan, Danube River 
Strategic Action Plan and Danube River Basin Pollution Reduction Program supported by GEF.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed project of US$15.0 million (GEF Grant US$5.0 million) to be implemented over four years, 
will include the following components: 
 
Component 1.  Promotion of Mitigating Measures for Reducing Nutrient Loads to Water Bodies.  
This component will assist the government of Croatia to promote improved watershed management 
Page  3
practices with the objective of reducing nutrient loads to the surface and ground water bodies of Croatia.  
Activities under this component will also thereby assist Croatia to implement the EU Nitrates Directive 
91/676/EEC 
concerning the protection of waters against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural 
sources
.
(a) Implementation of the EU Nitrates Directive.
 
Over the project preparation phase, MAFWM and the 
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction (MEPPPC) will make the 
strategic choice regarding the designation of nitrate vulnerable zones NVZs) i.e. whether the EU nitrates 
directive will be implemented on the whole territory of the country, or in designated vulnerable zones. If 
Croatia opts for the latter approach, the project, during preparation, would also assist the Ministries to 
designate the NVZs and subsequently prioritize the NVZs to be selected for remedial interventions under 
the project.   
 
During the early stages of project implementation, this component will develop integrated action and 
implementation plans, including investments, for remedial interventions, such as manure and compost 
management, integrated cropping management, nutrient management, conservation tillage, etc. in each 
selected NVZ (or for the entire country).  Beneficiaries of these investments will include farmers as well 
as small- and medium-sized enterprises (such as pig farms, poultry farms, slaughter houses, etc.).   
 
Drafting of Code of Good Agriculture Practices
:
As part of the EU Nitrates Directive, this sub-
component will help the MAFWE to develop a Code of Good Agricultural Practices that incorporates 
internationally- tested and proven good agricultural practices which are relevant for the Croatian diverse 
topographic and climatic conditions, such as the planting of shelter belts, buffer strips, windbreaks, 
nutrient management, conservation tillage, etc.   
 
Support for Water & Soil Monitoring and Impact Analysis: 
 As required by the Nitrate Directive, the 
project will help align the national monitoring system for surface and ground waters with that of the EU.  
The project will assist MAFWE’s Water Management Department’s ongoing efforts to adopt the EU’s 
surface and ground water monitoring guidelines and implement the required procedures in terms of 
sampling frequency, sampling site selection, and timing.  Project interventions will be monitored against 
both process as well as stress reduction indicators developed at the start of project preparation. It will also 
provide a data reporting system in accordance with EU requirements.   
 
Support for Training and Demonstration (T&D).
 
The project will provide information and practical 
training on, inter alia, nutrient remedial measures, EU principles on project financing, measures to obtain 
funding support from non-Bank sources, etc. to both beneficiaries (enterprises and farmers).  The project 
will also provide support for demonstrations of good practices for nutrient pollution control.   
 
(b) Organic Farming Regulatory Framework Upgrade:
 
This sub-component will support the Croatian 
Government in harmonizing the national regulations on organic farming and accreditation with the 
relevant EU regulations and thereby enable the MAFWE to achieve its objective to progressively increase 
the share of organic produce in the total agricultural output. 
 
Component 2.  Agri-environment policy implementation and enforcement. 
The project will provide 
assistance to MAFWM to implement select agri-environment measures related to on-farm activities. 
Towards this, the project will assist the Government of Croatia in harmonizing its legislation with the EU 
Nitrates Directive as well as strengthening its regulatory and enforcement capacity.  The project will co-
finance the initial implementation of the integrated action plans for nutrient reduction, including the code 
of good agricultural practices.   To enable accession of EU IPARD program funds, the project will assist 
the Government of Croatia with accreditation of the IPARD measure titled “Agricultural production 
methods designed to protect the environment and maintain the countryside” which aims at promoting 
Page  4
farming practices that are fully in line with the proposed objective of the GEF project. MAFWM has 
already requested GEF support to the Croatian IPARD Agency
1
in preparing the necessary details for 
accreditation of this measure. The GEF resources will be used to mobilize national and international 
technical assistance that would enable the Croatian IPARD Agency to meet the requirements of the 
European Commission for the accreditation of this measure. 
 
Component 3.  Public Awareness and Replication Strategy
.
A
local and nationwide public 
information campaign will be undertaken to disseminate the benefits of proposed project activities and 
achieve replicability of the same.  The aim would be to familiarize the population with the project and its 
benefits and thereby raise the interest of potential future clients.  The project will provide for the 
organization of national and regional workshops, field trips, visits, training, publication in international 
agriculture and environmental journals and other activities to promote replication of project activities in 
other similar areas of Croatia as well as Black Sea riparian countries.   
 
Component 4.  Project Management.
 
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be set up for the 
Agricultural Acquis Cohesion Project, within the MAFWM Department for Policy, EU and International 
Relations to manage the project, would also serve as the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) for the proposed 
GEF project.  The head of the PIU will also have overall responsibility for preparation of the proposed 
GEF project. The Unit will be staffed with two technical specialists, a financial specialist, a procurement 
Officer and an administration/secretarial support person to manage preparation of the GEF APCP.   
MAFWM will have overall responsibility for implementation of the project.  A Project Steering 
Committee has already been established comprising representatives from the MAFWM, Ministry of 
Environment Physical Planning and Construction, and Public Water Management Enterprises to provide 
guidance and advice on effective and efficient implementation of the proposed activities. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The safeguard policy, 
OP 4.01: Environmental Assessment
,
category B, would be triggered by proposed 
project activities.   
 
No major environmental issues are envisaged under the project.  Of lesser scope, the environmental 
concerns under this project (component 1) may include leakage of manure from the village-level storage 
facilities (if construction is not made according to specifications), inappropriate manure spreading in the 
fields and improper cleaning of the individual manure storage tanks and large manure platforms. An 
Environmental Assessment will be undertaken and mitigation measures to address the above issues will 
be developed.  An Environment Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared to ensure that activities under 
this component will be closely monitored with regular inspections by the local environmental agency 
(ies).
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($M) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 4 
BENEFICIARIES 2 
OTHER DONORS (EU, etc.) 
4 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 
5 
 Total 
15 
1
The establishment of the Croatian IPARD Agency is a coordinated effort of the Croatian Government, EU CARDS 
program, EU PHARE, Dutch bilateral assistance and the World Bank financed AACP. 
Page  5
6. Contact point 
Contact: Aleksandar Nacev 
Title: Sr Operations Off. 
Tel: (202) 473-0522 
Fax: (202) 614-0337 
Email: Anacev@worldbank.org
 
