Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3223 
Project Name 
Agricultural Pollution Control Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P100639 
GEF Focal Area 
International waters 
Borrower(s) 
CROATIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management 
Av. Vukovar 78 
Croatia 
10000 
Tel: +385 1 6106 111 Fax: +385 1 6109 201 
office@mps.hr 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 6, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 16, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
October 2007 
A.  Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
In its efforts towards EU accession, the government of Croatia is actively working 
towards meeting EU requirements and obligations as laid down in the 
acquis communautaire
 
(body of the laws of the European Union).  With agriculture and environment making up over 
half of the 
acquis communautaire
,
one of the major challenges for the Croatian government is to 
create a competitive and efficient agriculture sector that is in accordance with the environmental 
cross-
compliance requirements. Recognizing the country’s limited capacity to address EU 
accession commitments in the agriculture and agri-environment sectors, Croatia recently 
borrowed US$30 million from the World Bank in support of the US$48.5 million Agricultural 
Acquis Cohesion Project (AACP) which is designed to provide the technical skills, institutional 
capacity and financing needed to address constraints in these sectors. In this context, it is 
important for Croatia to take measures to reduce point and non-point source of nitrate pollution 
to water bodies from agricultural sources so as to support “comprehensive protection of the 
environment and nature from adverse agricultural practices on EU agricultural land”.  
Implementation of the EU Nitrates Directive, including the development of the Code of Good 
Agricultural Practices, to address nutrient management has become one of the major drivers to 
the country’s commitment to policy and institutional reform in the agricultural/rural sector and 
towards this, the government has requested GEF support for improved nitrate management as 
part of its programmatic support for rural development currently underway through the IBRD-
supported AACP.    
2. 
The Black Sea
.
The Black Sea has suffered severe environmental damage over the past 
decades mainly due to coastal erosion, eutrophication, conversion of wetlands, increased nutrient 
Page  2
run-off from agriculture, invasion of exotic species, and inadequate resource management, all of 
which have led to a decline of its biological diversity, loss of habitat and long-term ecological 
changes.  Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP) studies reveal that 58% of the total 
dissolved nitrogen and 66% of the total dissolved phosphorous flowing into the Black Sea come 
from the Danube river basin.  In Croatia, the Danube River, as well as its tributaries, the Sava 
and Drava, drain sixty percent of Croatia’s territory (approximately 33,940 sq km out of a total 
of 56,538 sq km).  The three rivers flow southeastward, through the Pannonian plain, which 
comprises nearly half of Croatia’s agricultural land, an area often described as the bread basket 
of the country.  The ecosystems along the Drava and Sava rivers are of high ecological value and 
the rivers play a critical role in preserving the natural ecological conditions of the region, 
including the maintenance of its rich array of flora and fauna.   
3. 
Agriculture and environment in Croatia
.
Agriculture is an important component of the 
Croatian economy.  In 2005, it accounted for 5.8% of GDP, 10% of total exports and 
employment for 8.3% of the labor force, which is above the Central and Eastern Europe 
Countries average.  With approximately 170,000 registered farmers and 42% of the country’s 
total population of 4.5 million living in rural areas, the sector is, directly or indirectly, an 
important source of livelihood for a significant section of the society.  The Pannonian region is 
characterized by intensive agriculture production, with the majority of livestock production and 
food processing industry concentrated in the region.  However, the majority of the medium- and 
small-scale farms do not have manure storage facilities and those facilities that do exist on larger 
farms are often inadequate in terms of size or imperviousness.  This, coupled with uncontrolled 
application of manure and slurry, is compounding the problem of rising levels of nitrate pollution 
in soil and water bodies in the Pannonian plain.   
4. 
Intensive fertilizer application is also a significant source of nutrient pollution in Croatian 
soil and waters.  Although existing Croatian regulations limit the application of agricultural 
inputs, notably fertilizers, their imprecise nature leads to their liberal interpretation.  Moreover, 
monitoring and implementation of the regulations is limited. Also, operators of small commercial 
farms typically do not take into account impacts to the environment, and awareness of nitrates 
management in crop and livestock production is still low.  Private farmers require a broader 
knowledge of the economic benefits to adopt technology for improved manure and land 
management to reduce nutrient loads.   
5. 
 In the Danube basin area of Croatia, studies conducted in 2005, indicate that 51 percent 
of the nitrogen load to the surface waters in the basin is from agriculture.  The nitrogen content 
of both the Sava and Drava rivers, flowing through Croatia’s most intensive agricultural area, is 
considerably above the maximum allowed content (MAC).  This has significant implications for 
the quality of drinking water in the region: the majority of non-public water supply systems, on 
which most of the country’s population is dependent, face severe problems with nitrates and 
concentrations often exceed the Croatian MAC.  Public health repercussions of nutrient, 
agrochemical and bacterial groundwater pollution in an environment where access to piped 
household water supply is inadequate, is widely recognized by the rural population of the 
Pannonian plain to be the major threat to the wellbeing of the affected communities.  
6. 
Water Management and Quality Monitoring
.
Overall, the monitoring of surface and 
ground water in Croatia is inadequate. The Croatian Waters Authority (CWA) has implemented a 
Page  3
national monitoring system for surface water since 2000 through 242 monitoring stations. In 
2003 Croatian Waters began to monitor the quality of groundwater at springs and well sites, 
however, no systematic groundwater monitoring is yet in place. The MAFWM DWM also 
undertakes some surface water monitoring, but no ground water monitoring.  Private companies 
responsible for drinking water supplies undertake some ground water monitoring on an ad hoc 
basis.  
7. 
EU Accession Requirements
.
Croatian EU membership candidate status was confirmed 
in April 2004, through European Council Decision COM(2004) 275 on European Partnership 
with Croatia.  The GoC is working to meet the requirements of this Decision and the EU 
requirements and obligations laid down in the EU 
Acquis
 
Communautaire
.
The recent reform of 
EU’s Common Agriculture Policy (CAP) has substantially increased the weight of 
environmental compliance criteria with the resulting cross-compliance requirement a key pre-
conditions for absorbing EU pre-accession assistance targeting rural development (SAPARD
1
and future IPA
2
programs). In this context, an agri-environment (AE) Program is an obligatory 
measure under the EU Rural Development Regulation (1257/1999) which establishes the 
framework for the comprehensive protection of the environment and nature from adverse 
agricultural practices on EU agricultural land. Croatia, therefore, needs to fully develop an 
appropriate institutional, regulatory and enforcement framework for an EU accredited AE 
program during the pre-accession period including implementation of the EU Nitrates Directive 
and the development of a Code of Good Agriculture Practices (CGAP).  Negotiations of the 
Agriculture and Environment Chapters of the EU Acquis are underway, reinforcing the 
timeliness of the proposed project since, at present, Croatia’s AE regulatory and enforcement 
framework is rudimentary.  
 
B. Objectives  
 
8. 
The GEF project is part of an overall program to assist the country develop sustainable 
systems and capacities within MAFWM to ensure timely compliance with EU acquis conditions 
in the rural sector.  Through the ongoing 
Agricultural Acquis Cohesion Project
,
which consists 
of an IBRD loan of US$30 million and government co-financing of US$13.6 million, the 
Government has already initiated significant efforts in this direction.  The AACP aims at, 
inter 
alia,
 (i) building capacity for MAFWM support for sustainable, competitive agriculture in 
Croatia compliant with EU 
acquis 
requirements: (ii) establishing a transparent and efficient 
payment system for the disbursement of GEF financed and subsequent government grants for 
structural reform in the agri-environment sector; (iii) reorganizing and reinforce government 
inspection services supporting environment regulations and (iv) providing project management. 
1
Special Accession Program for Agriculture & Rural Development; 
2
As of January 2007 the EU’s current development and pre-accession instruments, including SAPARD, ISPA, 
Phare and CARDS, will be united under one instrument, the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA).  IPA 
will provide assistance in institution-building and regional development, human resources development, and rural 
development. This development assistance is intended to help prepare candidate countries for implementation and 
management of the EC’s cohesion policy, particularly the European Regional Development, Cohesion, and Social 
Funds, for implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy, and for implementation of the 
acquis 
communautaire
 concerning the CAP. It will also provide financing for activities related to these actions. For more 
details see 
Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament On the Instruments 
for External Assistance under the Future Financial Perspective 2007-2013
,
Brussels, 29.9.2004. 
Page  4
GEF funds reinforce the development objective of the AACP by bridging critical policy and 
technical gaps and jump-starting a much larger program of investment in nitrates management 
that will be financed primarily through planned Croatian investment in structural reform in the 
agriculture sector managed through institutions and processes established under the AACP.  
Thus GEF assistance will not only help Croatia comply with the EU requirements in the 
agricultural sector related to the Nitrates Directive but also assist the government in honoring its 
international commitments to improve the waters of the Danube River and Black Sea.   
9. 
The development objective of the GEF project is to significantly increase the use of 
environmentally friendly agricultural practices by farmers in Croatia’s Pannonian plain in order 
to reduce nutrient discharge from agricultural sources to surface and ground water bodies.  In 
support of this, the project will assist the Government of Croatia to: (i) promote mitigating 
measures for nutrient reduction from agricultural sources to surface and ground water bodies 
(manure management); (ii) implement a national Agri-environment policy (Code of Good 
Agricultural Practices); and (iii) a public awareness campaign that would disseminate the 
benefits of project activities with the aim towards replication at the national and regional levels.   
10. 
The global environmental objective of the project is to reduce the discharge of nutrients 
into waters draining into the Danube River and Black Sea.  The project will provide an 
opportunity for the GEF to be a catalyst for actions to bring about the successful integration of 
improved land and water resource management practices. GEF support will help reduce costs 
and barriers to farmers adopting improved and sustainable agricultural practices. It will also help 
develop mechanisms to move from demonstration level activities to operational projects that 
reduce non-point nutrient pollution to the Danube River and Black Sea.  
C.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
11. 
Croatia is committed to improving water quality and reducing nutrient pollution over its 
entire territory as agreed under the Danube River and Black Sea Conventions and is in the 
process of negotiating its EU accession agreements for the Nitrate and Water Framework 
Directives. Although a substantial endeavor is underway in policy, institutional and 
environmental reform in the agriculture sector, as outlined above, there remains a significant 
unfinished and under-financed government agenda, in particular to reduce nutrient loads to 
Croatian water bodies from agricultural sources as well as to put in place an accredited AE 
Program. The positive evolution in attitude regarding agriculture and the environment is 
encouraging and creates a favorable momentum for the introduction of the proposed GEF 
measures that would reduce nutrient discharge to surface and groundwater in the Pannonian 
plain.  
 
12. 
The Bank has a comparative advantage in helping Croatia institute such measures.  It is 
the main implementing agency for the Investment Fund for Nutrient Reduction in the Danube 
and Black Sea Basin and currently has a portfolio of over a dozen projects in the basin at various 
stages of preparation and implementation, each of which aims at reduction of nutrient pollution.  
The Bank has gained considerable experience with cost-effective methods for the reduction and 
management of nutrient pollution from agriculture, water quality monitoring, capacity building 
and the implementation and enforcement of appropriate legislation to promote environmentally 
friendly agricultural practices, all in the context of EU agriculture and environment 
acquis
.
It is 
Page  5
supporting several such ongoing projects in Romania, Turkey, Bulgaria, Moldova, Georgia and 
Serbia.  Croatia’s committed efforts towards EU accession, the favorable political climate, the 
recognition of the links between sustainable agriculture and the environment and government’s 
commitment to large scale investments in structural reform provide a window of opportunity for 
the Bank and the GEF to assist the country in piloting a nutrient reduction program that will 
kick-start a much larger and longer term investment in agricultural competitiveness and agri-
environment management including nitrate reduction.  
13. 
GEF Eligibility.  
The Project’s objective of reducing non-point source nutrient pollution 
from agriculture to the Black Sea and Danube River is consistent with GEF Operational Program 
Number 8, 
Waterbody Based Operational Program
,
which focuses “mainly on seriously 
threatened water-bodies and the most important trans-boundary threats to their ecosystems.”  The  
project targets Strategic Priority IW-3 to “Undertake Innovative Demonstration for Reducing 
Contaminants (in this case Nitrates) and Addressing water scarcity”, and contributes to SPIW-1 
Catalyzing Financial Resources for Implementation of Agreed Actions 
as the proposed 
intervention will help stimulate follow-on investments at the farm level and support institutions 
in strengthening nitrates management policy, promoting mitigating action and monitoring 
outcomes.  Activities under the project have been designed to implement priority actions 
identified in the Black Sea/Danube Strategic Partnership - Nutrient Reduction Investment Fund, 
Black Sea Strategic Action Plan, Danube River Strategic Action Plan and Danube River Basin 
Pollution Reduction Program supported by the GEF.    
D. Description 
 
14. 
The proposed GEF investment is a pilot activity to be implemented in three selected 
counties of C
roatia:  (i) Osije ko
-Baranjska; (ii) Vukovarsko-
Srijemska; and (iii) Vara dinska.  
These counties have been selected because of their relatively high livestock density and their 
concentration of medium scale livestock farms – the three counties combined include an 
estimated 2000 private farms that fit project eligibility requirements.  The project to be 
implemented over four years, at an estimated cost of US$ 20 million, (GEF grant US$5.0 
million; associated IBRD financing US$13 million and grant beneficiaries 2.1 million), will 
include the following components:   
 
15. 
Component 1.  Mitigating Nutrient Loads to Water Bodies from Point-source 
Pollution (Manure Management).  (Total Cost: US$ 14.60 million, of which GEF US$ 3.36, 
Associated IBRD financing US$9.42 million and Grant Beneficiaries US$ 1.82 million). 
This 
component will assist the Government of Croatia to promote sustainable manure management 
practices with the objective of reducing nutrient loads to the surface and ground water bodies of 
Croatia.  Towards this, the project will establish a 
Nitrates Mitigation Investment Fund
 within 
the MAFWM Payment Directorate to finance grants for 60 percent of the tax inclusive cost of 
manure storage and management.  The detailed criteria and processes for awarding grants, 
together with draft manure storage facility plans and minimum EU/Croatian construction 
specifications, will be developed in an Operation Manual. The component will also provide 
support for Water & Soil Monitoring and Impact Analysis.  Towards this, the project will install 
piezometers in select sites to monitor the quality of water flowing out of livestock farms 
implementing the Project financed manure management sub-projects. The CWA will take 
responsibility for monitoring these piezometers as part of its national groundwater monitoring 
Page  6
program. The Project will also include a systematic sampling and testing of well water in rural 
areas, both as a goodwill measure for participating farmers as well as to demonstrate the risk to 
rural communities from inappropriate nitrates management.  
16. 
Component 2.  Development and Promotion of Agri-Environment Measures (Total 
Cost:  US$ 3.68 million, of which GEF US$ 1.16 million, Associated IBRD financing 
US$2.34 and Grant Beneficiaries US$ 0.18 million).
 This component will assist with the 
establishment and implementation of the Code of Good Agricultural Practices (CGAP), currently 
under preparation by the MAFWM.  The Code is expected to be passed as a Governmental 
Ordinance by the end of 2007.  The following activities under this sub-component will be 
implemented through the Croatian Agricultural Extension Institute (CAEI), with the support of 3 
additional national staff: 
17. 
Dissemination of the CGAP
.
The CAEI will interpret the Code in a manner that would 
ensure farmer buy-in, and develop and publish a user-friendly Guideline that would help farmers 
understand and implement the relevant provisions of the Code. The publication of the Guidelines 
would be supplemented with brochures, messages through mass media, agricultural fairs, etc. 
where farmers would be informed by project trained CAEI staff and private advisers of the most 
cost effective on-farm technologies that need to be employed for complying with the Nitrates 
Directive.  
18. 
CGAP Training and Demonstration (T&D) Program
:
The CAEI will undertake a training 
and demonstration program to educate and train the livestock community (extension workers, 
farmers, enterprises) in sustainable, cost-effective manure management practices as well as 
environmentally friendly agricultural practices, such as conservation tillage, crop rotation, etc.   
19. 
Component 3.  Public Awareness and Replication Strategy (Total Cost: US$ 0.71 
million, of which GEF US$ 0.24 million and Associated IBRD financing US$0.50 million). 
The CAEI will implement a project county and nationwide public information campaign to 
disseminate the benefits of proposed project activities with a view to their replication with 
IPARD support.   
20. 
Component 4.  Project Management (Total Cost: US$ 0.72 million, of which GEF 
US$ 0.24 million and Associated IBRD financing US$0.50 million). 
The APCP will be 
managed by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Agricultural Acquis Cohesion Project 
that has been established within the MAFWM Department for Policy, EU and International 
Relations.   
 
E. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
5.0 
Associated IBRD Financing 
13.0 
Beneficiaries 2.0 
 Total 
20.0 
 
Page  7
F. Implementation 
 
21. 
The APCP will be implemented through existing institutions. Project management will be 
undertaken by the PIU of the Agricultural Acquis Cohesion Project on a cost-shared basis.  A 
GEF-funded additional technical specialist, to serve as livestock/nitrates management advisor, 
will be hired for the life of the project. The PIU is already accredited for World Bank 
procurement and financial management procedures and has a successful track record in Bank 
project implementation.  
22. 
The MAFWM Payment Directorate has been established to disburse all government 
market and structural payments to farmers and includes an EU accredited SAPARD Payment 
Agency.  Under Component 1, for the provision of grants for sustainable manure management 
practices through the Payment Directorate’s Nitrates Management Investment Fund, the Project 
would support the appointment of two additional technical staff with responsibility for 
overseeing management of the fund, including the disbursement of the GEF sub-grants and 
monitoring of their implementation.  The project, in collaboration with the Payment Directorate 
will prepare an IPARD-compliant Beneficiary Guide and Public Procurement Guide describing 
procedures for the application, selection and issuance of grants under the Fund.  The two staff 
will be integrated into the Payment Directorate over the life of the project to provide long term 
capacity for the management of the IPA Measure 3: 
Preparation to Implement Actions Designed 
to Improve the Environment and the Countryside
.
23. 
Components 2 and 3 will largely be implemented by the CAEI.  It is a publicly funded 
institute with responsibility for extension management and delivery in Croatia.  The CAEI would 
be strengthened through the appointment of three nitrates management advisors, one in each 
participating county, to support farmers in planning their nitrate management programs including 
manure storage and the application of the CGAP, including extensive field demonstrations of 
CGAP technology and crop nutrient monitoring and management.  As with the Nitrates 
Management Fund, it is expected that these three staff will be absorbed into the CAEI over the 
life of the project, forming the basis for nitrates management advisory capacity within the 
institute.  The project will also provide extensive training for CAEI and private extension 
advisers in the EU Nitrates Directive and the practical aspects of its implementation.  
G.  Sustainability 
24. 
The project  is being prepared at the request of the Government of Croatia in recognition 
of the need to address the growing environmental threat to the waters of the Black Sea and its 
global implications.  The Ministries of Environment and Agriculture at the national level, as well 
as local government, agencies and farming communities will be actively engaged in project 
implementation.  The project will provide assistance for capacity building in policy and 
regulatory matters, which will enable the MAFWM and Ministry of Environment Protection, 
Physical Planning and Construction (MEPPPC) to establish a sound basis for overall 
management of the project and continue with implementation of integrated action plans for 
nutrient reduction after the completion of the project.  To ensure social sustainability, the project 
will emphasize the early involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation and 
implementation, including policy makers, local public officials and community leaders, farmers, 
Page  8
their associations and civil society.  Such involvement will create a sense of ownership and 
contribute to social sustainability.  It will also ensure continued buy-in for project activities after 
the life of the project. As regards financial sustainability, the project will benefit the farmers by 
promoting yield-enhancing agricultural practices that will improve agricultural productivity and 
efficiency.  Such project interventions will assist in raising farm and household incomes and 
improving the standard of living in the project area. Sustainability of funding for watershed 
management operations after the life of the project will be enhanced once the long-term 
economic benefits of project interventions, such as nutrient management, manure management, 
etc. become evident to the local and national populations and government as well as with the 
incorporation of agri-environment measures in the annual budgets of the MAFWM and by 
leveraging IPARD funding.  
25. 
Replication
:
The Project's activities will be developed to maximize the potential for 
replication.  A specific component on replication strategy has been developed under the project 
whereby a public awareness and communication campaign on project activities and benefits will 
be undertaken to generate interest for replication of project interventions both within and outside 
Croatia and in other riparian countries. This will be achieved through national and regional 
workshops, field trips, training, publication in international agriculture and environmental 
journals, participation in Global Distance Learning programs and other similar activities.  A 
Nitrates Initiative website will be developed and maintained in accordance with IW-LEARN 
guidelines.  The project will also earmark funds to finance country official(s) participation at 
least two GEF International Waters conferences, travel to brief the Danube & Black Sea 
Commissions, as well as for an exhibit that can be taken to different meetings to describe the 
project.  The project will also interact closely with the regional projects of UNDP and UNEP 
under the Strategic Partnership Programs to allow dissemination of project results to a larger 
audience, which would enhance the scope of project replicability.  During implementation, the 
project will also seek to benefit from the ongoing activities and lessons learned under the 
regional projects so as to improve project performance.  
H. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
26. 
The preparation of this project has benefited significantly from similar projects ongoing 
in other Black Sea riparian countries such as Poland, Romania, Moldova and Turkey. Some 
lessons learned include:
 
·
the early involvement of local administrations, communities and key decision makers in 
project preparation is essential in order to ensure ownership and successful project 
implementation;  
·
testing and demonstration activities are crucial in achieving the dissemination of the 
project results and the ensuring replication of the project interventions; 
·
adoption of mitigation measures to reduce nutrient load should yield tangible benefits for 
the expected users, specifically local communities, in order to ensure adoption; 
·
effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms need to be developed and applied to 
measure project impact and feed lessons leant into project design;  
·
decentralized responsibility for financial and project management builds local ownership 
and sustainability of project activities; and 
Page  9
·
dissemination of information is critical to the widespread adoption of new technologies 
and practices. 
27. 
The project design particularly draws on the experience of the Poland Rural Environment 
Protection Project (PREPP) which employed a similar approach to improved on-farm manure 
storage as proposed under the APCP. The PREPP showed that farmers, given a balanced mix of 
information, financial incentives and environmental regulation enthusiastically adopted on-farm 
manure storage technology. While the financial disincentive of non-compliance was an important 
driver, (as will be the case in Croatia) participating Polish farmers also understood their 
responsibility for sustainable environmental management, perceived a substantial financial 
benefit from improved livestock nutrient management and took pride in their well-maintained 
surroundings. Compliance with on-farm food safety requirements was also an important 
incentive in Poland as it expanded market and price opportunities, a situation that will soon apply 
in Croatia under the forthcoming good agricultural practice legislation. 
28. 
The project will incorporate these experiences and build on them through a participatory 
and transparent approach to project preparation and implementation. 
 
I. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
a. Safeguard policies 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[ X ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
X
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X
]
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[
X
]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
X
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[
X
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
X
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
X
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
X
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
X
]
29. 
With the exception of Environmental Assessment, no other safeguard polices are 
applicable under the project.  Regarding Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50), the 
safeguard policy does not apply as the project does not involve the use or extraction of 
international waters or cause pollution to international waters.  Proposed project activities do not 
address or affect water supply nor target waste water treatment.  The project is specifically 
designed to reduce nutrient discharges to Croatia’s surface and ground water bodies in the 
Danube watershed with the ultimate aim of improving the quality of the Danube River and Black 
Sea through the activities discussed above, viz.: (1) improved manure management practices; (2) 
promotion of environmentally friendly agricultural practices; and (3) a public awareness 
campaign to disseminate the benefits of project activities. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
J. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
Agricultural Pollution Control Program for Croatia: Overall Technical Analysis 
2. 
Feasibility Study for Manure Storage Systems under Agricultural Pollution Control Project 
3. 
Water Quality Monitoring Program for the Agricultural Pollution Control Project 
4.  Environmental Management Plan for the Agricultural Pollution Control Project 
5. 
Social Analysis for the Agricultural Pollution Control Project 
6.  Agricultural Pollution Control Project Financial Management Manual 
7.  Operation Manual for Agricultural Pollution Control Project 
 
K. Contact 
point 
Contact: Aleksandar Nacev 
Title: Senior Operations Off. 
Tel: (202) 473-0522 
Fax: (202) 614-0337 
Email: Anacev@worldbank.org 
 
L.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
