Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13744
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
DECEMBER 2, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00  =   MK 1.80 (July 1986)
US$1.00  =   MK 6.52 (March 1994)
MK 1.00  =    100Tambala
SDR   =   US$1.20
WEIGHTS. VOLUMES AND MEASURES
1 Cubic Meter (m3)  =   220 Imperial Gallons, 264.2
US Gallons, or I Kiloliter: (ki)
1 Liter per Capital per Day   =   lcd
IMeter  =   3.28 Feet (39.37 inches)
1 Kilometer  =   0.62 Mile
I Square Kilometer (Km2)  =   247 Acres (ac)
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
DLV   =   Department of Lands and Valuation
DOW    =   Department of Lands and Water
EIB   =   European Investment
LDVW    =   Department of Lands, Valuations
and Water
LWB   =   Lilongwe Water Board
MMWS   =   Ministry of Works and Supplies
(now MOW - Ministry of Works)
ODA   =   Overseas Development Administiation
OPC   =   Office of the President and Cabinet
PCR   =   Project Completion Report
SIDA   =   Swedish International Development
Authority
WHO   =   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malawi & Lilongwe Water Board = April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Malawi
Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project (Loan 1742-MAI
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malawi - Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project
(Loan 1742) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
Largely prepared under the previous loan the project focused primarily on physical capacity
expansion for water supply improvements in Malawi's capital, Lilongwe. Secondary objectives included
management strengthening, and inputs for present and future sanitation improvements.
The project met its objective in physical terms and provided economic benefits earlier than
planned. Rapid in-migration associated with moving Malawi's capital to Lilongwe has spurred population
growth and capacity additions financed by the project have already been utilized.  Training and
reorganization took place in the utility. Financial results have not matched appraisal expectations due to
continuing government delays in tariff increases and greater-than-expected increases in operating
expenses.
The project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, and its inst,tutional development as
modest. The sustainability of project benefits is uncertain because the utility is not recovering its capital
costs.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1742-MAI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Eage No.
PREFACE .                 ...................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMM4ARY   .......                       .......... ..               ....................                  H
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM ASSOCIATION'S PERSPECTIVE  ....1..... 
A. Project Identity            .......................1...................... 
B. Project Background   .......              ............ ..1..................... 
C. Sector Development Objectives and Policy Context   ......................                                          1
D. Project Objectives and Description .................................                                              2
E. Project Foundation and Design.                                                                                    2
F. Project Implementation   ........................................                                                 4
G. Major Results of Project ......................                                                                   6
H. Project Sustainability .......................                                                                    9
I. Association Performance ........................................                                                  9
J. Borrower and Executing Agency Performance  ...............                                   ........            10
K. Project Relationship                   .........................................                                 10
L. Consulting Services  .                .........................................                                  10
M. Project Documentation and Data                  .................11.................                             1
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                 ......   I I
PART  m: STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    ............................                                                     15
ANNEXES
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credit ................................                                             15
2.  Project Timetable .                ..........................................   16
3.     Credit Disbursement  ........................................                                                17
4.    Project Implementation    ......................................                                              18
5.  Project Costs . ............................................   19
6.    Project Financing  .              .........................................                                   20
7.  Economic Impact .                  ..........................................   21
8.    Financial Impact .              ..........................................                                    22
9.     Economic Rate of Return Data Streams .............................                                           23
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                          I



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
10.  Short and Long Term  nstitutional Development ........................                                   24
1 1.  Short-Term  Practical Experience Program  Through Twinning ................                             25
12. Status of Covenants ...........................................   27
13.  Use of Bank Resources   .            ......................................                              29



- l -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1742-MAI
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project, for
which Credit 1742-MAI in the amount of SDR 16.6 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) was approved
on November 20, 1986 and declared effective on May 12, 1987. The Credit was closed, as scheduled,
on June 30, 1993. The undisbursed balance of SDR 93,008.56 was canceled on November 15, 1993.
2.    The European Investment Bank (EIB) and the Overseas Development Administration of the United
Kingdom (ODA) financed the project in parallel with IDA and the Government of Malawi. An amount
of US$19.37 million equivalent of IDA's credit was on-lent to Lilongwe Water Board (LWB) at an
interest rate of 11 percent for 25 years, with a 6-year grace period and the remaining US$0.63 equivalent
was passed on to LWB as grant. Of the US$0.67 million equivalent of the ODA grant to the
Government, 60% was passed on to LWB as grant and 40% was on-lent on terms similar to those of the
IDA Credit. The EIB contribution was on-lent to LWB at 11 9% interest rate.
3.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Africa Region
(Parts I and Im) and the Borrower, (Part 11).
4.    Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission in July 1993, and
is based on data provided by the Lilongwe Water Board, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
MALAWI - SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1742-MAI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
1.    The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) augment and secure the water supply to
Lilongwe; (b) strengthen Lilongwe Water Board's management through management staff support; (c)
continue with the construction of the on-site sanitation program started under a preceding Engineering
Credit (Cr. 1272-MAI); and (d) study future options for Lilongwe's waste water disposal and sanitation
systems.
Implementation Experience
2.    The Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project was a follow-on from the Lilongwe Water Supply
Engineering Project which assisted LWB: (i) to formulate long range water supply, sewerage, and
sanitation programs; and (ii) assess the manpower and training needs, including recommendations for a
training program. The project, which covered the first phase of LWB's long-term investment program,
was identified from the Master Plan study prepared under the engineering project. The feasibility studies,
detailed design, and contract documents were prepared under the Engineering Project. The advance
preparation of project design and procurement, and contract documents contributed to the timely
execution of the project components. Furthermore, the formulation of the long range water supply,
sewerage, and sanitation programs, under the engineering project, give evidence of a well-conceived
approach to project financing. The initial implementation schedule, i. e. a six year implementation
period, reflected the Bank's concern regarding Government's ability to fund the investment as proposed
initially. However in early 1988, as a result of availability of funds and the anticipated cost savings by
a shorter implementation period, it was agreed that the project could be completed earlier. Therefore,
implementation of all components was completed one year earlier. Although some difficulties and
setbacks were experienced, project implementation had progressed smoothly.
Results
3.    The project was successful in meeting its stated objectives (para. 1). The above objectives
were achieved through the:
(a)    construction of a new earthfill dam;
(b)    expansion of the water treatment plant;
(c)    extension of the water transmission and distribution systems; and
(d)    management staff support and training.
4.    The project also provided financing for the preparation of a feasibility study for Lilongwe's



- iii -
sanitation and sewerage and for implementation of on-site sanitation systems. The feasibility study
examined: (a) existing and prospective urban development in Lilongwe to the year 2005; and (b)
sanitation and water supply systems. Also, alternative sanitation projects for waste water treatment and
disposal were evaluated and emergency programs with priority components to be built for immediate
rehabilitation of the existing sanitation facilities were identified and designed. The On-Site Sanitation
Program strengthened the management and implementation capacities of Lilongwe, Blantyre, Mzuzu, and
Zomba City Councils.
Sustainability
5.    The major achievements under the Project were an adequate water supply for Lilongwe to meet
the anticipated demand and an effective and efficient institution that is financially self-sufficient. While
Government agreed to periodic requests throughout project implementation, a more automatic mechanism
for periodic adjustments of tariffs is required to guarantee financial viability. Furthermore, to further
improve and sustain what was achieved under the project, institutional development effort needs to be
continued. These issues are being addressed by a proposed National Water Development Project,
currently under preparation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.    The main lessons learnt from the preparation and implementation of the Second Lilongwe Water
Supply Project are:
(a)    The value of a rigorous assessment of institutional capacity and the design of appropriate
arrangements for technical assistance and training. Under the project, this was reflected
in:
'i)    The appointment of able senior management staff who have the experience and
the training to build and strengthen the capacity of the implementing agencies is
very essential. Under the preceding project, a technical assistance component
aimed at improving management was included and was executed successfully.
The technical assistance component continued under this project allowed for
experienced expatriate engineers to occupy the Engineer/Manager, Financial
Controller, and divisional engineering posts of distribution, operations, and
projects and for relatively inexperienced local engineers to be appointed to deputy
divisional engineering posts. The program provided for the gradual increase in
responsibility to be given to the deputy engineers and for them to take over the
engineers' posts before completion of the project, which they did. The location
program was, therefore, executed successfully; and
(ii)    A thorough assessment of staffing, recruitment and training needs. Under the
Engineering Credit an assessment of staffing, recruitment and training needs were
made and under the Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project, the program was
well executed. The strength of LWB's management and the improvement in the
financial viability is the result of the above efforts.
(b)    Determination of the basis for a successful resettlement and compensation program at
appraisal is essential. The need and basis for resettlement and compensation was not
adequately defined during preparation/appraisal of the project and, therefore, the net
effect of its impact on households could not be assessed.



- iv -
(c)    Government commitment is essential in order to develop a self-supporting organization.
While Govermment was somewhat supportive of LWB through tariff increase approvals,
the increases were often too little, too late. Government will therefore need to examine
its role and procedures for the future approval of tariff increases.
(d)    Flexibility in changing targeted covenants to make them consistent with implementation
experience is important. For example, although LWB's financial performance was
generally sound, it failed to meet the covenanted rates of return. This issue was raised
with LWB by each supervision mission, but no further action was taken by the Bank.
In retrospect, the rates of return on the average current net value of LWB's fixed assets
in operation (operating income/one-half of the sum of the current net value of LWB's
fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year) should have
been renegotiated at the completion of the revaluation of the fixed assets as the actual
value of the revalued net fixed assets were much higher than the SAR estimates.
(e)    Early preparation of key requirements for effective implementation.  The advance
preparation of design and procurement documents, as well as draft contracts avoided
potential bottlenecks and resulted in project completion within the original estimated time
frame.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI - SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1742-MAI
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM ASSOCIATION'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name               Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project
Credit No.                 1742-MAI
RVP Unit                   Southern Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country                    Malawi
Sector                     Infrastructure
Sub-sector                 Water
B.    Project Background
1.    The transfer of the administrative capital from Zomba to Lilongwe made Lilongwe a focal point
for agricultural, commercial, and industrial activities. As a result of this transfer, Lilongwe experienced
a very rapid population growth; the population grew from 169,000 in 1986 to about 360,000 in 1992,
and it is now expected to continue to grow at 8 percent (6.5 percent per annum was estimated during
appraisal). This rapid increase in population put a strain on the City's water supply in the early 1980s
which resulted in water restrictions and rationing. Since the tributaries flowing into the Lilongwe River,
the sole source of water to the City, had been considerably reduced and occasionally ceased during the
dry season, the Kamuzu Dam was built in 1966. In 1983, during project preparation, the water treatment
plant had a capacity of 20,000 m3/day (reliable working capacity of the plant was 15,000 m3/day) while
the peak demand was estimated at 28,000 m3/day. However, in 1984, an Emergency Augmentation
Scheme, with an additional treatment capacity of 10,000 m3/d, was constructed to provide additional
treated water. The booster stations and transmission lines worked at or above their design capacities,
particularly during the high demand period of the year. Water supply, although servicing almost 100%
of the population, within the City boundary was rationed by cutting off supply to certain areas during
peak demand months for up to 12 hours per day. In order to meet the unmet as well as expected increase
in demand, piped water supply needed to increase from 22,000 m3 per day in 1985 to about 67,000 m3
per day in 1997. Therefore, the Government requested that the Bank finance the construction of a new
dam/reservoir and expand the water supply system to cater for the increased demand.
C.    Sector Development Objectives and Policy Context
2.    The Government's policy reflects those of the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade and aims at providing clean potable water to all people to reduce the incidence of water borne
diseases and to reduce the time devoted by individuals to water collection. Furthermore, as a result of
the financial and management deterioration of key parastatals in the early 1980s, which added a financial
burden on the Government, the Government formulated appropriate policies to make these parastatals
financially self-sufficient. In the water sector, to strengthen the mandate of the two existing Water Boards
and make them financially self-supporting, supplemental legislation to the Waterworks Act of 1926, was
passed in 1984. The supplemental legislation were the Blantyre Waterworks Act and the Lilongwe
Waterworks Proclamation. Furthermore, to avoid duplication of effort by various agencies involved in



providing water to other than Lilongwe and Blantyre, a comprehensive reorganization in the water sector
was undertaken in 1979. This reorganization led to the creation of the Department of Lands, Valuations
and Water (DLVW) under the Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC). DLVW was later split into
the Department of Water (DOW) and the Department of Lands and Valuation (DLV). During the project,
the Department of Water had the sole responsibility, except in Lilongwe and Blantyre which had water
boards, for developing and managing water resources in Malawi.
D.    Project Objectives and Decrptio
3.    Project Objectives. The objectives of the project were to augment and secure the water supply
to Lilongwe, Malawi's rapidly developing capital, through the construction of a new dam/reservoir and
to expand Lilongwe's water supply system to cater for the anticipated increase in demand. The additional
capacity was to help meet Lilongwe's water demands up to about 1997. The project was also designed
to strengthen LWB's management and to help determine an appropriate strategy for Lilongwe's long-term
sewerage and sanitation requirements.
4.    Project Components. The Project comprised the following:
(a)   construction of a new earthfill dam on the Lilongwe River near Masula, which would be
24 meters high and 750 meters long, including site clearance, earthworks, concrete
works, instrumentation, pipework, and fencing, and road and water pipeline diversions;
(b)   remedial works, including the raising of the crest level by one meter, on an existing dam
serving Lilongwe;
(c)   extension of water treatment plant capacity by 27,000 m3/day;
(d)   extension of the water transmission and distribution system, including the laying of
transmission mains, and construction of new service reservoirs, elevated water tanks and
booster pumping stations;
(e)   supply of vehicles and equipment to LWB;
(f)   consultancy services for engineering and construction supervision;
(g)   strengthening of LWB through management staff support and training; and
(h)   implementation of the on-site sanitation scheme and preparation of the feasibility study
of Lilongwe's long-term sanitation and sewerage options.
E.    Project Foundation and Design
5.    Foundation. Although the need for additional water supplies for Lilongwe was first identified
in
1978 through the Bank's Cooperative Program with the World Health Organization (WHO) and a
Cooperative Project of the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA), preparation of the
project did not start until after the Government's long-range water supply, sewerage and sanitation
programs were identified. In 1980, UNDP provided financing for prefeasibility studies for the long range
development of Lilongwe's water supply system and to prepare draft terms of reference for the associated
water supply master plan and feasibility studies. In September 1981, the Government requested IDA's



- 3 -
assistance for the financing of the master plan and feasibility studies. In addition to the master plan and
feasibility studies, the preceding Project, the Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project, financed: (a)
detailed engineering design and preparation of contract documents for the first phase; and (b) management
and staff support and training to strengthen the newly-created LWB. The Master Plan recommended that
the water supply development program should be implemented in two stages. The first stage to be
operational by 1990 and reach its capacity by 1997 and the second stage to be operational in 1997 and
reach its operational capacity by 2005. The first stage was financed under the Second Lilongwe Water
Supply Project.
6.    Design. Although the initial project design was appropriate for the projected demand, in order
to cut down initial construction costs, the feasibility studies for the first phase of the water supply scheme
recommended the following amendments to the proposals in the Master Plan:
(a)   scaling down population and demand projections to reduce the design capacity of the
proposed treatment works from 45 mIl/d to 32 ml/d;
(b)    building the dam in two stages with the first stage to serve until 1997 and raising the dam
by 5 meters to double its storage capacity;
(c)   eliminating a technically desirable western ring main; and
(d)   reducing treated water storage volumes by 30%.
7.    Based on revised population and demand projections (Table 1) for the City of Lilongwe, which
resulted mainly from the outbreak of cholera, LWB was required to provide service to the peri-urban area
of the city. This resulted in a substantial increase in demand on their facilities and therefore the design
capacity, which was anticipated to be adequate until 1997, has now been utilized. The SAR population
projections were based on 6.5 percent growth per annum starting with an estimated figure of 124,900 in
1983, while the revised estimates are based on 8 percent growth per annum starting with an actual figure
of 245,756 in 1987 for the expanded Lilongwe area of service.
Table 1: Population Proiections
YEAR        SAR Estimates          Revised Estimates
(Original Area)        (Expanded Area)
1990             213,000                  309,582
1995             272,000                  454,877
2000             348,000                   668,384
2005             444,000                   982,048
ources LWB
In retrospect, implementing the original project design would have been appropriate. This is specifically true
for the construction of the dam: The cost of raising the dam by 5 meters now will cost much more than the
estimated cost during project preparation. The need for commissioning of a Third Lilongwe Water Supply
Project (Proposed Project to be financed by ADB) in 1996, one year earlier than anticipated, and the
justification for the project, mainly an increase in demand resulting from more than anticipated population
growth, prove that the original design was appropriate.



8.    Advance identification and preparation of the Project design under a well focused study contributed to
its smooth implementation. The engineering designs, bid documents, and contract documents were prepared
by the time the project was appraised.
F.    Project Implementation
9.    Background. The Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project was prepared through the Lilongwe Water
Supply Engineering Project (Credit 1272-MAI) (para 5). The Master Plan prepared under the Engineering
Project was revised because the initial estimated cost of the project (US$47 million) exceeded the Government's
investment capability. Furthermore, it was felt that the projected annual tariff increase required to support the
proposed investments (40 % increase in 1985 and decreasing to 11 % in 1991) would be beyond the
affordability of a large segment of the population. The final engineering design, prepared under the Engineering
Project, reflected the changes (para 6).
10.   The project Implementation Schedule is presented in Annex 4. The main issue raised and
extensively discussed during project preparation and appraisal was LWB's ability to fund the investment as
proposed under the Master Plan. The initial implementation schedule reflected this concern. Although a shorter
implementation period would have been cost effective, implementation was phased over six years - one year
for final preparation, two years for construction of the dam, and three years for construction of the treatment
plant to reduce the budgetary demands on LWB. However in early 1988, after the finalization of FY88/89
budget and the ten-year budget projections, LWB confirmed its ability to provide the local counterpart funding
earlier than anticipated during appraisal. Therefore, the implementation schedule was revised. The revised
Implementation Program is also presented in Annex 4. As a result of cost savings from the shorter
implementation period, construction of the Headquarters building was included under the project. This work
was included in the project as originally conceived, but was deleted during appraisal in order to reduce project
costs and counterpart funds required. Although some difficulties and setbacks were experienced, project
implementation progressed smoothly. Furthermore, capacity development efforts that were initiated in advance,
allowed LWB to implement the staff development program at an early stage of project implementation.
11.   Construction of Kamuzu Dam No. 2 and Repair to Kamuzu Dam No. I (Contract) A : While remedial
works on Kamuzu Dam No. I were completed on time, the construction of the new dam started in February
1987 as originally scheduled, but was completed in June 1990, seven months after the scheduled completion
date. The causes of completion delays were: (a) late arrival of the heavy construction plant and equipment; (b)
plant breakdowns; (c) difficulties in obtaining adequate quantities of cement; (d) low production rate of washed
sand; and (e) unusually heavy seasonal rainfall which caused high back water levels.
12.   Construction of Water Treatment Works. Pulling Stations and Reservoirs & Water Towers (Contracts
B & E). The two contracts were awarded to the same contractor. Start of construction work was advanced by
eight months and completed ten months ahead of appraisal estimate. Although the contracts were completed
earlier than anticipated during appraisal, they were completed five months after the revised completion date.
The reasons for the completion delay were: (a) poor quality of plant that experienced frequent break downs;
(b) shortage of essential equipment, which required sharing of some equipment for both contracts; (c) late
ordering of materials, specifically pipes, (d) lack of adequate supervisory staff; and (e) high rate of staff
turnover on the part of the Contractor.
13.   SuDply and Installation of Water Treatment Equipment (Contract C). This contract was advanced by
eleven months and was completed ten months ahead of appraisal estimate. The contract experienced minor
technical and administration difficulties. In order to minimize difficulties and ensure a more reliable and less
expensive source of chlorine for water treatment, LWB requested and the Bank approved the financing of the



- 5 -
On Site Electrolytic Chlorination (OSEC) plant, instead of using imported chlorine gas for disinfection. Local
generation of chlorine from salt contributed to foreign exchange savings and improved reliability of supply of
chlorine.
14.   Supply and Installation of Pumping & Electrical Eguipment (Contract D). Work started in April 1989,
ten months ahead of appraisal estimates, and was completed in June 1991, two months after the revised
completion date. Completion of this component experienced some problems with transformers which were
believed to have been damaged in transit, and with raw water pumps which did not meet the specifications.
The latter problem was resolved quickly by bringing a skilled fitter to re-fit the pumps. However, the former
took longer as the transformer tanks needed to be reordered.
15.   New Office Building. In December 1987, the Water Board requested that the construction of a new
office building (that would cost about Kwacha 2.6 million) be added under the dam construction contract and
financed under the project. The justification for the request was based on the fact that to have these facilities
ready for use during project construction would save some money as it would eliminate the need to provide
office accommodation for construction and supervisory personnel. Construction of the new office building
started in August 1989 and was completed in June 1990. The new office building generally improved
performance as it brought operation and supervisory staff to one location and reduced communication as well
as transport costs. It also resulted in savings from high rental accommodations.
16.   Contracts F. G and H, relating to the design and supervision of construction of the distribution system,
were handled in-house with the Bank's approval in order to provide experience for the LWB's own staff. This
was discussed and agreed with the Bank in March 1988. This was possible because of the addition to LWB's
staff of a project engineer and an operations engineer through technical assistance. The work was done with
the assistance of, and under the direction of, the TA team attached to LWB as part of the capacity building
effort under the project. The successful completion of these contracts provided valuable experience in contract
management to LWB staff.
17.   Resettlement. The number of families initially estimated to be resettled and compensated for the loss
of land, crops, trees, and houses, as a result of the project was 50. Nearly 200 families were actually
compensated. The total compensation payments by LWB out of its own funds prior to dam construction were
about MK 300,000, 50% more than estimated (MK 200,000) at appraisal. As the standard of living of the
families displaced was not known during appraisal and there has not been effective follow-up since the
compensation was paid out, it is not possible to determine the net impact of the project on the displaced persons.
18.   Institution Building. Implementation of the institution building and localization (replacing expatriate
engineers by trained Malawians) program, still on-going in some areas, was successfully implemented. A
twinning arrangement with South Staffordshire Water Company of the UK provided LWB with about 50 person-
months of training both in Malawi and in the UK through short-term attachments. Additionally, LWB's staff
had the opportunity to review on the job training in the installation of mechanical/electrical equipment during
construction of project works. Furthermore, staff in all key management areas were trained and all posts,
except the Financial Controller's post, have now been localized. The Financial Controller's post is in the
process of being localized with a suitable candidate having being identified.
19.   Some of the main organizational improvements achieved were:
Planning
(a)    A planning division was created to co-ordinate the previously diverse planning functions;



- 6 -
(b)    LWB's first Corporate Plan was produced;
(c)    An annual planning cycle was formulated;
Organization
(a)    The Engineering Department was split up into an operations Department and a Technical
Department.
(b)    A commercial division was established within the Finance Department
Communicati
A Management Information System (MIS) was introduced.
20.   Sanitation ComRonent. The feasibility study for sewerage and sanitation for Lilongwe was successfully
completed. The low-cost sanitation component was completed, although it experienced some delays as a result
of shortage of local funds.
21.   Project Costs and Financing. The appraisal estimate of the total project cost was Kwacha 55.0 million,
including price and physical contingencies. While actual cost of the Project in terms of Malawi Kwacha was
much higher than the appraisal estimates (Kwacha 77.7 million), the actual cost in terms of US Dollars was
much lower than the appraisal estimates. The IDA Credit of SDR 16.6 million (US$ 20.0 million equivalent)
increased to USS 21.6 million equivalent when the Project Closed. The actual and estimated costs in Kwacha
and US dollars are given in Annex 5. As indicated in the table, the scope of the project was expanded to utilize
the cost savings. The actual cost includes the financing of the construction of new headquarters building.
22.   Procurement and Disbursements. Procurement of Bank-financed items proceeded without delays. The
estimated and actual disbursements of the Credit are given in Annex 3. As can be seen from this table, actual
disbursements were slightly ahead of the estimated disbursements.
G.    Major Results of Project
23.   Project OQ jetive. Overall, the project was successful in meeting its stated objectives of expanding
Lilongwe's water supply system, strengthening LWB's management and determining an appropriate strategy
for Lilongwe's long-term sewerage and sanitation requirements. Through the:
(a)    construction of a new earthfall dam source, security was ensured;
(b)    extension of water treatment plant; including new service reservoirs, transmission and
distribution mains, a reliable water supply was ensured; and
(c)    management staff support and training program, LWB's management capacity,necessary to
operate and maintain the systems, was developed.
24.   The Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project also provided financing for a feasibility study of Liongwe's
sanitation and sewerage and implementation of an on-site sanitation system. The feasibility study examined the
existing and prospective urban development in Liongwe to the year 2005 and sanitation and water supply
systems. Also, an alternative sanitation projects for waste water treatment and disposal were evaluated and an



- 7 -
emergency programs with priority components to be build for immediate rehabilitation of the existing sanitation
facilities were identified and designed.
25.    Physical Results. The physical targets of the project were achieved with less than anticipated cost and
much earlier than the time anticipated at appraisal. This was done because of LWB's ability to come up with
the counterpart funding earlier than anticipated during appraisal.
26.    Financial Performance. LWB's income statements, balance sheets and sources and application
of funds comparing SAR forecasts with actual results for the period 1988 - 1993 are presented in Anne14.
LWB's operating results are summarized below. The actual net revenues were higher than the appraisal
estimates because implementation schedule of the project was moved ahead of SAR estimate. This resulted in
higher production and sales. The actual operating expenses were also higher than appraisal estimates.
Table 2. LWB's Operating Results, 1990 - 1993
Comparison of SAR Estimates with Actual Results
MK '000
-                             '1                                       *t-        i    -4   
Not
Revenue    7,476      6,332     9,063     7,634       I',46    8,422     15,188    11,396
Opeatfing
Expene.a   6,820      5,294     7,714     5,844      9,372     6,385     13,746    10,017
Operating
Income      656       1,039     1,349      1,790     2,474     2,037     1,442     1,330
Operating
Ratio       91         33        85         76        79        75        90        87
Onratins Ratio:  Opemting expene/net revenue - give. the relationship between opeating expenses, including depreciation, cad met revenue.
27.    The two major factors that contributed to the less than anticipated financial performance are the rate of
inflation and the rate of increase of average water tariffs. The higher rate of inflation caused operating expenses
to be higher, and the less than inflation tariff increases resulted in lower than anticipated revenues. As shown
below, except in FY90, FY91, and FY92, the tariff increases granted to LWB were lower than the rate of
inflation. Although the increases granted in FY90 and FY92 were above the rate of inflation, they were granted
in two stages, with the second increase granted about 6 months into the financial year, thus reducing its
beneficial impact. In FY93, the second increase of 24% was requested due to major increases in costs caused
by the two devaluations and wage increases, but only 15% was granted.



- 8 -
Table 3: Tariff Increase Requested and Granted
-1980   - 1989 t1-           9911   19921    199.   11994
|Inf. Rate
SAR Estimates         10      9        9        9         9         9          9
Actual                26      31      16        11       12         22        26
Tariff Increase
Requested             12      25      27        17        18     22 & 24      28
Granted (nominal)     12      18      27        15       16      18 & 15      18
Granted (real)       (14)    (13)    (11)      (4)       (4)        11        (8)
28.   At the time of project preparation in 1986, the average tariff in Lilongwe was 42 tamnbalas/m3
which was below Blantyre's average of tambalas 63/m3 although both cities had about the same per capita
income levels. Household expenditure for water in Lilongwe constituted between 1.2% and 2.0% of per
capita income. At project closing, water charges averaged 2.2% of per capita income and on the basis
of convertional practice which considers 5% or less of income for water and sanitation as affordable,
LWB has a margin of flexibility within which to adjust tariffs. Although tariffs incremented at a negative
real rate (See Table 3) per capita income growth was even lower, hence the lack of political will on the
part of Government to increase tariffs.
29.   Rate of Return on net Fixed Assets. As shown in Table 4, the actual rates of return are lower
than the appraisal estimates. The highest rate of return achieved during the period up to March 31, 1993
was 2.0% (in FY92), as compared to a projected level of 5.8% for the samne year. The reasons for the
lower than anticipated rates of return are: (a) net revenues increased at a lower rate than operating
expenses which resulted in lower surplus, (b) larger increases in the actual value of net fixed assets than
projected, about 3 times greater during 1990-92, and about 1.8 times higher in 1993, the last year of the
project, and (c) even after a sound review of asset lives and through revaluation processes, the assessed
depreciation provision was abated by 15 % up to FY91 and by 20 % thereafter, resulting in the tariff
being set too low and failure to meet the rate of return objective. The actual value of the revalued net
fixed assets were much higher than the SAR projections because:
(a)   Implementation schedule of the project was moved ahead by one year resulting in a larger
accumulation of fixed assets in operation earlier than anticipated in the SAR.
(b)    The Malawi kwacha was devalued by 15 % in 1988, and by a further 40 % in 1992.
This had a direct impact on the kwacha value of Lilongwe Water Board's fixed assets.
(c)    As a result of macro-economic factors, including the devaluation, the actual rates of
inflation during this period were significantly higher than the SAR projections. The net
fixed assets were, therefore, revalued using much higher factors than originally
anticipated.



- 9 -
Table 4: Rate of Return
HW         n t        191. '     - 1990.       199.1       19 :,            : 19.3
SAR Estimates        2.2          3.3         5.4          5.8         1.9
5.8l
Actual               0.05         0.9          1.2         2.0         0.8
30.   Economic Re-Valuation. The assumptions and the data for the economic re-valuation are shown
in Annexes 7 and 9. At appraisal, the economic evaluation of benefits in quantitative terms was limited
to revenue from incremental water sales which accounted for 98 percent of the project cost. At appraisal,
the economic rate of return for the project was estimated at 5.5 percent. The actual ERR is 4.65% and
this is lower than the 5.5% estimated in the SAR. This is mainly due to the decline in real average tariffs
which contributed to less than projected net benefits.
H.    Project Sustainability
31.   The major benefits of the project are an improved water service delivery to the City of Lilongwe
and the building of efficient and effective institution. To ensure continued financial viability of LWB,
there is a need to establish a mechanism for periodic adjustments of tariffs to reflect the economic cost
of providing the services. From the experience gained under the project, it is evident that LWB would
not be able to generate adequate funds internally to finance its future investment needs without adequate
and timely tariff adjustments. Furthermore, to further improve the LWB's management there is a need
to continue the institutional development effort that was started under the Project.
1.    General
32.   A component to protect the raw water quality from inflows of impurities from the catchment was
not included under the project. LWB has requested the Bank to consider including catchment protection
under the National Water Development Project.
J.    Association Performance
32.   Although the need for additional water supplies for Lilongwe was first identified in 1978 and a
number of short-term water supply extensions were implemented, the Bank's involvement awaited the
development of LWB's long-range water supply and sewerage and sanitation program. The long-range
water supply, sewerage and sanitation programs for Lilongwe were formulated under the preceding
Lilongwe Water Supply Engineering Project. The Bank performed well in reviewing the Master plans,
feasibility study, and providing assistance in developing an affordable and financially viable project. The
Bank's strategy for the project, first identifying the long-range water supply needs and preparing a
priority investment program, was well-founded.
33.   The supervision missions, although only once a year on average, facilitated project
implementation by reviewing procurement documents and discussing the financial and economic
justification for any additional work LWB proposed to carry out under the project. During each
supervision mission, the failure of LWB to meet the covenanted rate of return was raised, but no further
action was taken by the Bank as LWB seemed to be performing well in all other respects. In retrospect,
the covenanted rates of return should have been renegotiated at the completion of the revaluation of the
fixed assets. When the revaluation exercise was completed the revalued fixed assets were between 100%-



- 10 -
200% higher than those used in the SAR. Therefore, the covenanted financial rates of return were
unrealistically high.
K.    Borrower and Executing Agency Performance
34.   The implementing agency for the Project, LWB, performed very well during project
implementation. Procurement documents were prepared on tune and financial statements were audited
and submitted to the Bank before the due dates. As shown in Annex 12, the Borrower was in compliance
with the Credit and Project Agreement covenants except the rate of return.
L.    Project Relationship
35.   The good relationship between the Bank and LWB, the implementing agency, and the Government
of Malawi was instrumental to the successful implementation of the project.
M.   Consulting Services
36.   The engineering and construction supervision consultants' performance was good. Quarterly
reports, providing details of implementation and progress in general, were prepared on time. The
consultants who prepared the feasibility study for Lilongwe's sanitation and sewerage completed the study
on schedule and within budget.
N.    Project Documentation and Data
37.   The Loan Agreement and Appraisal reports were adequate and clear and were instrumental to the
smooth implementation of the Project. Other relevant information, progress reports, Master Plan, etc.,
on the project were adequately documented.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. -PROJECT REVIEW
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A.   ADEQUACY AND ACCURACY OF FACTUAL INFORMATION
IN PART III
The information in Part III was prepared by the Financing
Agency in close collaboration with the Implementing
Agency, Lilongwe Water Board. The data thus reflects the
status of the Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project from
progress reports and other available data.
B.   EVALUATION OF BANK'S PERFORMANCE
At appraisal, the  covenants that were  agreed upon  with
the borrower were in some cases unrealistic, e.g. the
stipulated expected rate of return on investment as a
measure of the financial performance of the Lilongwe
Water Board.
The tariff levels that were agreed upon at appraisal were
not honoured by the borrower.   The Bank's stance  should
have been to insist on the borrower honouring its
commitments as regards levels of increases in tariffs to
ensure  continued   sound  financial   standing  of   the
Implementing Agency.
Lessons learned:
The  absence  of  an  effective  monitoring  system   for
conformity  with  conditions  agreed  upon  at  appraisal
during the  life  of the  project  has resulted  in  some
covenants, mostly on tariff levels, not being honoured.
As a result, the Implementing Agency's financial status
has deteriorated, and the ability to borrow addstional
funds for further expansion projects is jeopardised.   At
appraisal, the Bank should have stipulated specific
actions it would take 'for failing to honour the covenants
agreed upon at appraisal stage.
C.   EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
During the implementation  stage of  the Second  Lilongwe
Water Supply Project, the organisation's establishment
lacked properly experienced managers, hence the need to
include a management support component for a -.General
Manager,  Financial  Controller   and  Training   through
Twinning with the South Staffordshire Water Company.



-12-
This assisted the development of properly qualified
personnel, especially since part of the project was
implemented by  direct labour.    In contrast  with  this
situation, the supervision consultant worked in almost
total isolation, and there was little transfer of skills
to  the   Malawian  professionals   as  regards   project
management. 
Major Lessons Learned
During the implementation stage there was need to appoint
a   project   liaison   officer,   project    accountant,
procurement officer,  and quality  assurance officer,  to
look into the interests of the Board and have an indepth
knowledge  of  all  issues  pertaining  to  the  project,
including a smooth handing over of completed parts of the
project.
Save  for  the  dam,  there  is  little  information   on
operation and maintenance as regards some of the project
components.
D.   ADEQUACY OF PROJECT COMPONENTS IN MEETING OBJECTIVES
The project, when completed, partly met the original
objectives since capacities of various components are
almost reaching full capacity within the two years of
commissioning.   The main  reason for -this is  that  the
population figures which were used for planning purposes
turned  out  to  be   unrealistic,  e.g.  the   projected
population for -the year  2000, was  already exceeded  by
1992. An assumed growth rate of 6% was used and the
actual turns out to be much higher at 8%.
The actual demand is about 30% above that projected,
hence current raw water storage capacity, which was
assumed to be adequate till the year 2000, will be
inadequate by 1997. Hence the decisions to:
(a)   cut back on dam height by 5m;
(b)   reduce treatment capacity at TW2 to 27 Ml/Tay; and
(c)   remove sections og the transmission main from the
Second Lilongwe,Water Supply Project;
have left the Board with sections of the system not  able
to meet the demand in the near future, and hence the need
for the Board to embark on a project to increase on the
capacities of those elements of the project that are
fully stretched.



-13-
Major Lessons Learned
The design horizon for some of the main components, e.g.
dam and treatment works, should have been reviewed in
light of recent information on population growth and
demand. This would have eliminated the need to embark on
a further expansion project soon after completion of the
current project.
The decision to cut the dam embankment to save MKI.O
million at the time has already translated into MK25.0
million to construction the dam embankment to maintain
the  reliability  of   the  supply   for  1996   onwards.
Similarly, the decision to cut back on treatment capacity
has resulted  in the  available  unit operating  to  full
capacity as of now.
The  absence  of  a  project  co-ordinator  and   quality
assurance officer to independently criticise some aspects
of the project has landed the Board with high maintenance
costs within a short period.   This is more evident  with
electro/mechanical equipment.
E.   EVALUATION OF CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCE
The consultant was technically very competent.   However,
his  performance  was  adversely  affected  by  lack   of
interaction with the essential staff of the executing
*      agency who would take up responsibility for operation and
maintenance of all aspects of the project when handed
over. As a result, a little information on the project
as regards operation and  maintenance was handed over  to
the client.  There was very little transfer of skills  on
specific aspects of the project, and information required
for further expansion is always  hard to get.  There  was
very poor relationship between the consultants and some
of the  contractors,  -
This resulted in  a
ot of  claims for  which the  consultant was  pa rly  to
blame.
Major lessons learned
The situation could  have been saved  if the project  had
incorporated the position of  a project co-ordinator  who
would have been a mediator between the contractors.
consultants and the client.
All concerns from all parties as regards various  aspects
of the project should have been routed through the co-
ordinator. As of now, most of the executing agency's
personnel complain of lack of adequate information on the
details of some components of the project for effective



-14-
operation  and  maintenance.    The  preparation  of  the
project  completion   report   would  be   one   of   the
responsibilities of the project co-ordinator.
F.   EVALUATION OF CONTRACTORS' PERFORMANCE
On this project  there were several  contractors for  the
various contract  packages.   Almost all  of the  "supply
only' contractors performed satisfactorily.
 he contractors for the
dam,  performed  very  well.       The  other  main   civil
contractor                                         performed
poorly.  This contractor had management problems, and the
fact that there was very poor relationship between this
contractor and  the  consultant, communicatio-s  was  not
very effective. The end result was delays in completion
of contracts B and  E, and subsequent late  commissioning
of all the works, and in the end there were a lot of
claims for which both the contractor and consultant are
to blame.  This resulted in strained relationship between
the executing agency (Lilongwe Water Board) and the
consultant towards the end of the project.
Major Lessons Learned
The celection of a contractor should not only be based on
economy,  but  more  emphasis  should  be  put  on   past
performance of the contractor in successfully completing
projects of similar nature.
G.   GENERAL
The project as defined, had no component to protect the
deterioration of the raw water as a result of inflows of
impurities from the catchment, as well as minimising the
silt load into the reservoirs to prolong their useful
life. A component for afforestation of the buffer zone
should have been included as part of the project in order-
to  protect  the  investment  in  the  dam  and minimise
pollution of the stored raw water.



- 15 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDIT
Project Title                                                        J
Loan/Credit               Purpose                    Year of          Status
-                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Approval
Blantyre Water Supply     To provide additional      May 12, 1977    Completed and the
Credit 0711               facilities necessary and                    primary objectives
strengthen Blantyre Water                   achieved.
Board's management and
l ________________________  technical  capabilities.
Liongwe Water Supply     To enable the Government   June 24, 1982    Completed and the
Engineering               to formulate long-range                     project objectives
Credit 1272               water supply, sewerage and                  were achieved.
sanitation programs for
l _______________________  Lilongw e.



- 16 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date                Date        I       Date
Item                      Planned             Revised              Actual       l
- Identification            10/84                                   10/84
- Preparation              08/85                                    08/85
- Appraisal               02/11/86               -                02/11/86
- Credit Negotiation      09/09/86                                09/09/86
- Board Approval          10/20/86               -                 11/20/86
- Credit Signature        02/11/87            02/13/87            02/13/87
- Credit Effectiveness     01/87              05/12/87            05/12/87
- Credit Closing          06/30/93                                06/30/93
- Project Completion        12/92                                   12/92



- 17 -
Annex 3
Page I or i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
CREDIT DISBURSENIENTS (US$ NIILLION)
Bank Fiacal Year                                 Estimated                         Actual                        Actual % of
And Quarter                                     Cumulative                      Cumulative                        Estimated
FY 1987
30-Sep-86
31-Dec-86
31-Mar-87
30-Jun-87                        0.6
FY 1988
30-Sep-87                        1.2                             2.8                             233
31-Dec-87                        1.6                             2.8                              175
31-Mar-88                        2.0                             3.9                              195
30-lun-88                        2.8                             5.0                             179
FY 1989
30-Sep-88                        3.6                             5.6                             156
31-Dec-88                        4.8                             6.4                              133
31-Mar-89                        6.0                             7.6                              127
30-Jun-89                        6.8                             8.0                             118
FY 1990
30-Sep-89                        7.6                             9.7                              128
31-Dec-89                        8.8                             10.3                             117
31-Mar-90                        10 0                            13.2                             132
30-Jun-90                       11.2                            15.0                             134
FY 1991
30-Sep-90                       12.4                            16.4                             132
31-Dec-90                        13.2                            16.8                             127
31-Mar-91                        14.0                            17.3                             124
30-Jun-91                       15.2                            18.3                             120
FY 1992
30-Sep-91                       16.4                             19.1                             116
31-Dec-91                        16.8                            19.4                             115
31-Mar-92                        17.2                            20.4                             119
30-Jun-92                       18.0                            20.9                             116
FY 1993
30-Sep-92                       18.8                            21.3                             118
31-Dec-92                        19.0                            21.6                             114
31-Mar-93                        19.2                            21.6                             113
30-Jun-93                       19.4                            21.6                             111
FY 1994
30-Sep-93                       19.6
31-Dec-93                        19.8
31-Nlar-94                       20.0



- 18 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal Plan       Revised Plan            Actual
Components                     Start      Finish     Start    Finish     Start      Finish
Constniction of Darrs
(Cortract A)                  Feb-87     Nov-89    Feb-87   Apr-89    Feb-87        Jun-90
Construction of:
Water Treatment Wrks.         Jan-90     Mar-92    Feb-89   Dec-90    Apr-89       May-90
Booster Stations & Reservoirs    Jan-91   Jul-92    Feb-89   Dec-90    Apr-89      May-91
(Contracts B & E)             Mar-90     Feb-92    Aug-90   Dec-90    Apr-89        Apr-91
Supply & Installation of Water
Treatmrent Equipment
(Cortract C)                  Feb-91     Mar-92    Jun-90   Apr-91      Apr-89      Jun-91
Supply & Installation
Purnping & Electrical
Equipment
(Contract D)                                                            Aug-89      Jun-90
Supply & Installation
of Electrolytic
Chlorination Equipment



- 19 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
Appraisal
Esfinive                                            Actual
Lcal        Foreign       Total                     Laal        Foreign       TOtal
KCwache mllion)                                     (Kwacho nilLon)
Watm SLIpply Conp-Mt
Water &WlyExerion                         20.5         31.4         51.9                       8.1          54           62.1
a) E,peasicr of Raw Water                   -             -            -                         -            -            -
Sirm Work3
b) ExuieonofWater                                                                                -
&Fply FSdits
c) Provision ofVehicles                      -            -            -                        0.1          0.3          0.4
and  qwuip=rat
d) Caidtanits' Smoviccs                      -                         -                        1.7          8.6          10.3
for Partu A and B
Mhnant9  saff 9Jpxxt                       0.1           1.8          1.9                       15           0.1          1.6
aid Triniig
Saritai Caont
FesibNlity S4dy                            03            0.9          12                         -           0.7          0.7
Coriessalion of l:Slot
Project
Corutxution of Iw
d   lqmior B.ng                         -            -            -                        22           0.4          2.6
TUrAL    ST                                20.9         34.1         55.0                       13.6        64.1         77.7
Akidugh  e poect was conpleted below the estixrdli totai cost in temTs
of US ddlars, the ackjal tolal cost in emnrs of Malawi Kwacha is highar than



- 20 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
B. Project Financing
(Kwacha million)
Six                 BaIrIWPd  P t                AP        rtu
lEA                    36.0       65               51.3    67.00
CDA                     1.0        2                1.0     0.02
BB                      11.8      21               2D.0    208
GCM                     2.2        4                0.0     0.02
LVB                     4.0        8                5.4     6.9S
'O1L                   55.0      100               77.7      100



- 21 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
PROJECT RESULTS
A. Economic Impact
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                ACTUAL
ECONOMIC RATE OF                       5.5                         4.7
RETURN
Underlying Assumptions
1. The benefit period extends from 1987 to 2022.
2. To be consistent with the SAR, all the data is expressed in 1986 constant prices. The deflators have
been calculated using the actual average rate of inflation.
3. Investment costs are based on actual costs and then converted to 1986 constant prices.
4. Incremental operating costs are based on actual increases in operating expenses given in the Profit
and Loss Account from 1990/91 onwards when the project commenced. Froml992/93 onwards, the real
incremental costs are assumed to be constant.
5. System expansion: the cost of system expansion is included in investment costs. The cost estimates
are based on the Corporate Plan which projects an expansion of 800 new connections per year.
6. Incremental revenue from water sales consists of two elements:
(a) Incremental water sales: which is based on actual from 1991/92 when the project outputs
commenced, and projections contained in the Corporate Plan. From 1997/98, the incremental
water sales are assumed to be constant as further increments will be the consequence of the new
water supply project being proposed.
(b) Tariffs: which is calculated by using 1986/87 average tariffs as the base, the real average tariffs
have been estimated by deflating the actual annual average tariffs by the inflation factors.
7. The non-quantifiable benefits (improved health for users, fish farming potential, environmental and
social benefits such as time savings) have not been taken into consideration. Therefore, the actual benefit
does not include these non-quantifiable benefits.
Comments: The actual ERR of 4.65 percent is lower than the appraisal estimate due to decline in real
average tariffs between 1986/87 and 1992/93.



- 22 -
Annex 8
Page I of I
PRO.TECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROTECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
B. Financial Impact
Appraisal
Estimate (%)     Actual (%)
Rate of Return on Revalued Assets:
1989                2.2                    0.1
1990                3.3                    0.9
1991                5.4                    1.2
1992                5.8                    2.0
1993                 1.9                   0.8
Operating Ratio
1989                88.1                  99.5
1990                83.6                  91.2
1991                76.5                  85.1
1992                75.8                  79.1
1993                87.9                  90.5
Other Financial Indicators: The financial indicators, appraisal compared with actual
are given in Annex 14.
Rate of Return: The rates of return are significantly lower than those projected in the SAR due to: (a)
net revenues increased at a lower rate than operating expenses. This resulted in a lower surplus; (b) large
increase in the actual value of net fixed assets as compared to the SAR estimates.
Operating Ratio: The reason for the deterioration of operating ratio is that while net revenues increased
between 1986 and 1993 by 531%, operating expenses (including depreciation) increased by 567%.



- 23 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1742-MAI)
C. Economic Rate of Return Data Streams
('000 Kwacha)
Total             Total              Net
Period               Costs             Benefits          Benefits
86/87                3.450               -               -3.450
87/88                7.243               -               -7.243
88/89                8.735               -               -8.735
89/90               8.550                -               -8.550
90/91                5.936               -               -5.936
91/92               5.253              0.315             -4.936
92/93               0.911              0.619             -0.292
93/94               0.318              1.365              1.038
94/95               0.318              1.819              1.501
95/96               0.318              2.324              2.006
96/97               0.318              2.882              2.564
97/98               0.318              3.502              3.184
98/99               0.318              3.502              3.184
99/00               0.318              3.502              3.184
21/22               0.318              3.502              3.184



- 24 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJ.ECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
SHORT AND LONG TERM INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Raned    Actta
Trairirg Ctjecnie              Dsciine                           iod     Peiod     Stus
To nrae the Proects            Prqect Bneer                    4 yrs     4 yrs    Corrpeted
S2con ad train an urrastuiy
To rm3-ge the Opeations        Operatcn Egneer                 4yrs      4yrs    Conreted
Section aw tran and uidastud
To nwage te Dstribuion         Cistriution Engneer             4 yrs     4 yrs   OC-going
Section and tran an undstudy
i! tins study for               vbrgremt Acxtai                3yrs      3yrs    Ch-going
ACCA quification
Fit tirre stxy for             Finandia Accoumnt               3 yrs     3yrs     C,-Cing
ACCA qcificanon
Rr0cal & Cost Acoutart         Aaonitaxcy Assistant          15 nths       -      OCring
Ihe al stnt termtwiinpg   m is n n   A     Ix 11.



- 25 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
PROTECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
SHORT-TERM PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE PROGRAM THROUGH TWINNING
Maintenance of Electrical         Electrical &    3 months            Csmpletod
Mechanical Plant               Mechanical
SuperLntendent
Operation of Distribution         DistrLbution    3 months           C:mpleted
System & Maintenance of        Superintendent
Records
Laboratory Procedures             Laboratory        2 months          Completed
Superintendent
Meter Testing and                 AssLstant         2 months          Completed
Repairs                        Supervisor
Waste Control                     Waste Control   2 months            Completed
Superintendent
Management of Financial           Financial         1 month           Completed
Systems in the Water           Controller
Industry
Revenue Collection and            Management        3 months          Completed
Billing System                 Accountant
Purchasing/Stores Control         Supply Officer  2 months           Completed
Personnel Management              Supply O'ficer  2 months            Completed
Improvement of Waste
Control Procedures             Technical         2 months         Completed
Examine existing mains            Technical         3 months          Completed
and obtain basic
data for network
analysis
Water Quality Control              Technical        3 months          Completed
Assessment of accounting           Financial        3 months          Completed
and control systems
Audit procedures                   Internal
Auditor          2 months         Completed
Monitoring progress on             Technical        1 month           Completed
waste control
Payroll and other financial        Financial        2 months          Completed
records on computer
Organization of Direct             Technical        3 months          Completed
Labor Force
Operations Management              Operation        3 months          Completed
Control                         Superintendent



- 26 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Management of Water              A3sistant      3 months         Completed
Quality Control                Chief
scientific
Officer
Supervision of Water             Treatment      6 months         Completed
Treatment Plant                Plant
S upervisor
operational Procedures           Deputy         3 months         Completed
O?erations
Engineer
Organization of Direct           Hains          6 months         Completed
Labor                          Supervisor
Maintenance of Electrical &      E'.ectrical &  6 months         Completed
Mechanical Plant               Hechanical
Engineer
Water Supply & Sanitation        reputy         6 months         Completed
for Developing Counties        Projects
EZgineer &
Supply        6 months          Not done
Su;ervisor
Financial   Cost Accounting      Costing        6 months         Completed
Supervisor
Computer                         Computer       6 months         Not done
Manager                         will be
funded by
LWB
Water Supply & Sanitation        Cvoerations
in Developing CountrLes        Sumerintendent 6 months         Completed
a-_ Assistant  6 months         Completed
Projects
m-anager
Accounting and Finance for       Credit          6 months        Completed
Developing Countries             C_ntroller
Financial & Cost Accounting      Senior Audit   15 months        Completed
Clerk
Diploma Course                   Assistant       3 months        Not done
Chief
Scientific
Officer
Water Resources in               0-Oerations     6 months        On-going
Developing Countries             E-gineer
Suitable course                  Data Control   6 months         Not done
S_-uervisor



- 27 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI
STATUS OF COVENANTS
COVENANTS UNDER                                     DEADLINE
LOAN/CRED1T                                          FOR
A                        SUBJECT                    COMLAN                     SATUS
A. Credi  Areem    t
Secetion 3.02(a)         Borrower to make           Not later than             Since LWB had
available to LWB          June 30, 1987               adequate funds,
MK2.0 miUion                                          it was not necessary
for Parts A through                                  for Govt. to provide
E of the project.                                                     funds.
Section 3.03             Procurement of goods,                                 Complied with.
works and consultants
services financed from
Credit to be governed by
Schedule 3 to this Agreement
Section 3.04             LWB to carry out obligations                          Complied with.
relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and
of Part A through E of Project
pursuant to Section 2.03 of
Project Agreement.
Section 4.01(a)          Borrower to ensure that aU                            Compiled with.
families displaced as a result
of the Project are adequately
compensated and relocated.
Section 4.02             Borrower to take all, measures                        Not complied with.
including water tariff increases,                     Tariff increases
necessary to enable LWB to eam                                       have been inadequate
specified rates of retum.                                              and untimely.
Section 4.03             Borrower to sign agreement with                       Compiled with.
LWB before March 31, 1989, for
LWB to pay Borrower for cost of
augmentation scheme.



- 28 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Covenants under                                          Deadline
Credit                                                   for
Agreement               Subject                          Compliance               Status
B. Proiect Agreement
Section 2.01            LWB to carry out Parts A                                  Compiled with.
through E of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate
administrative financial
engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.05            LWB to take all measures          Before June 30, 1988    Compiled with.
necessary to increase its
treatment plant capacity by
5,000 m3/d to 35,000 m3/d.
Section 2.07 (a)        LWB to exchange views with                                Compiled with
Association on progress of Project.



- 29 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SECOND LILONGWE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1742-MAI)
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
Total Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                                                            26.6
Appraisal Through Board Approval                                                             10.6*
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                                                         2.7
Supervision                                                                                  34.6
* The resources utilized from appraisal through board approval is low because most of the work was done under the Engineering
Project.
B. Missions
Stage of Project  Month/ Number of        SW in  Specialization    Performance              Types of
Cycle           Year   Persons            Field    Represented     Rating Status            Problems
Throu2!h Appraisal
Identification  10/84   -                 -       FA
Preparation     08185   -                 -       -
Appraisal       02/86   5                 4.0     EN,EC,FA,FAC  -
Supervision
Supervision 1    06/87   1                2.50    EN               1
Supervision 2    02/88   1                1.50    FA,EN            I
Supervision 3    09/88   1                0.20    EN               1
Supervision 4    06/89   1                1.00    EN               1
Supervision 5    06/90   2                2.20    EN               1
Supervision 6    02/91   1                0.40    EN               1
Supervision/    07/93   2                 3.00    FA,EN            1
Completion 7
EN = Engineer
EC = Economist
FA = Financial Analyst
FAC = Financial Analyst - Consultant
TS = Training Specialist
FAD = Financial Advisor



