OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1742 MAT
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        A/, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1742 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               4           3, 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTEATIONA DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of t:e Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower and the Overseas Development Administra-
tion of the United Kingdom intend to enter into an agreement (the
ODA Grant Agreement) for the purpose of making a grant (herein-
after called the ODA Grant) to the Borrower in an amount of five
hundred sixteen thousand Pounds Sterling (E516,000) to assist in
financing Part E of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in the ODA Grant Agreement;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) loans (the EIB Loans) in
an aggregate amount approximately equivalent to six million five
hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000) to assist in the financing
of Parts A and B (1) of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in agreements (the EIB Loan Agreements) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EIB;
(D) Parts A through E of the Project will be carried out by
Lilongwe Water Board (hereinafter called LWB) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to LWB part of the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and LWB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the foilowing mean-
ings:
(a)  "LWB" means Lilongwe Water Board, a statutory body of
the Borrower, established under the Waterworks (Lilongwe Water-
Area and Water Board) Proclamation, 1984 (Government Notice No.
73 of 1984), made pursuant to Sections 3 and 4 of the Waterworks
Act (Cap. 72:01) of the Laws of Malawi, as such Act and Proclama-
tion may be amended from time to time;
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and LWB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and LWB pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "LWB Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)  "Malawi kwacha" and "K" mean     the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in


﻿-3-
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Draw-
ing Rights (SDR 16,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A through
E of the Project, cause a special account to be opened and main-
tained in dollars in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be with-
drawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1997, and ending November 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereaftez shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agree-.ent, and, to this end, shall carry out Part F of the Pro-
ject through its Ministry of Local Government with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause LWB to carry out Parts A through E of the Project, in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, and to
perform all the obligations of LWB therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable LWB to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of sixteen million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,100,000) from the proceeds of the Credit
to LWB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LWB, under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Association which, unless otherwise agreed by the


﻿- 5 -
Association, shall include: (i) repayment of principal over a
period of 25 years including a grace period of six years; (ii)
the capitalization of all interest accruing during the grace
period and payment thereof with the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan over the remaining period of nineteen years; and
(iii) the payment of interest on principal and on interest
capitalized in accordance with (c) (ii) above, at the rate of
eleven percent per annum.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to make available
to LWB funds in an aggregate amount of two million Malawi kwacha
for the partial financing of Parts A through E of the Project,
under an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
LWB, not later than June 30, 1987.
(b) The terms and conditions of said agreement shall be
acceptable to the Association, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree:
(i) the rate of interest shall not exceed the rate
charged under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(ii) payment of interest shall be made      n an annual
basis; and
(iii) repayment of principal shall commence not earlier
than January 1, 1993.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records


﻿-6-
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, Xespectively) in
respect of Parts A through E of the Project shall be carried out
by LWB pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that all families to be displaced as a result of
land acquisition by LWB for purposes of the Project shall be
adequately compensated and relocated in accordance with a plan
acceptable to the Association; and
(b) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, reimburse
LWB for any land acquisition and relocation costs in excess of
K 200,000.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all measures neces-
sary to enable LWB to earn the rates of return specified in Sec-
tion 4.02 (a) of the Project Agreement and, to this end, shall
approve such water tariff increases for the fiscal years 1986/87
through 1991/92 as shall be necessary to enable LWB to achieve
said objective.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, no later than March 31,
1989, sign an agreement with LWB whereby LWB shall pay to the
Borrower the cost of the facilities and equipment comprising the
augmentation scheme which increased the daily capacity of LWB
from 20,000 cubic meters to 30,000 cubic meters. The term
and conditions of such agreement shall be acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) LWB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that LWB


﻿-7-
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
(c) The Waterworks (Lilongwe Water-Area and Water Board)
Proclamation, 1984 (Government Notice No. 73 of 1984), the
Waterworks Act (Cap. 72:01) or any subsequent enactment of the
Borrower regulating LWB shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of LWB to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of LWB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Cond  tions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and LWB; and
(b) the EIB Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and EIB, and the Association has been notified that
all conditions of effectiveness of the EIB Loans, other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:


﻿- 8 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by LWB and is legally binding upon LWB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and LWB and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and LWB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3,
Malawi
Cable address:                        Telex:
FINANCE                              4407
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authoried Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            47/
( -6C&vcRegional Vice President
Tastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:
(a) Dam construc-        5,400,000         70% of foreign
tion under                            expenditures and
Part A of the                         60% of local
Project                               expenditures
(b) Extension of         1,910,000         100%  of foreign
the water                             expenditures and
treatment plant                       70% of local
under Part B (1)                      expenditures
of the Project
(c) Extension of the     1,000,000         100% of foreign
transmission and                      expenditures and
distribution                          70% of local
system under                          expenditures
Part B (2) of
the Project
(2) Supply of:
(a) Transmission         2,400,000         100% of foreign
and distribu-                         expenditures and
tion mains under                      70% of local
Part B (2) of the                     expenditures
the Project


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b) Vehicles, flow          80,000         100% of foreign
metering equip-                       expenditures and
ment and miscel-                      70% of local
laneous equipment                     expenditures
and supplies
under Part C of
the Project
(c) Miscellaneous           80,000         100% of foreign
equipment and                         expenditures and
supplies under                        70% of local
Part F (2) of                         expenditures
the Project
(3)  (a) Consultants'         2,900,000         100%
and advisers'
services under
Part D of the
Project
(b) Consultants'           330,000         100%
and advisers'
services under
Part F of
the Project
(4)  Salaries and               500,000         100% of foreign
benefits for the                           expenditures
Engineer/Manager
and Financial
Controller under
Part E (1) of
the Project
(5) Unallocated               2,000,000
TOTAL              16,600,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to extend and improve the
water supply and waste disposal system of Lilongwe, the Bor-
rower's capital city, and to strengthen the management of LWB.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Expansion of Raw Water Source Works:
(1) Construction of a new earthf ill dam on the Lilongwe River
near Masula.
(2) Remedial works on the existing water supply dam.
Part B:   Extension of Water Supply Facilities:
(1) Extension of the Lilongwe water treatment plant including
intake works and pumping stations, to increase its capacity
by 32,000 cubic meters per day.
(2) Extension   of  the  transmission  and   distribution  system
to accommodate the increases in water supply capacity.
Part C:
Provision of vehicles, water meters and miscellaneous equip-
ment to LWB.
Part D:
Consultants' services for engineering and supervision of
construction under Parts A and B.
Part E:   Strengthening of the Management of LWB through
the Provision of:
(1) Support for high level management staff.
(2) Training of LWB staff.


﻿- 14-
Part F:   Sanitation and Waste Disposal:
(1) A feasibility study on the expansion and improvement of
Lilongwe's sanitation and sewerage systems.
(2) Continuation of a pilot project to demonstrate appropriate
on-site sanitation facilities and practices.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for works included in Parts A and B of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Malawi may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
In  the   procurement  of  works  in   accordance  with  the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, domestic contractors may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Local Competitive Bidding:
(a) Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost less than
$50,000 up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$300,000 may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.


﻿- 16 -
(b) Construction materials for waste disposal units under
Part F (2) of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may be procured: (i)
directly from the Borrower's Ministry of Works and Supplies; or
(ii) on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association if
such items cannot be procured under subparagraph (i) ubove.
2.   Force Account
Civil works, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $150,000 for waste disposal units under Part F (2)
of the Project, may be constructed by the Borrower with the use
of its own personnel and equipment.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.   Review of Prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review  of invitations to bid and proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contracts are to be made out of the LWB Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of each contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 of appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the LWB Special Account, in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the LWB Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two con-
formed copies of each contract, together with the other informa-
tion required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished


﻿- 17 -
to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Project
Agreement.
3.   The figure of ten percent (10%) is hereby specified for pur-
poses of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
and LWB shall each employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall        be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles   and   procedures
satisfactory to  the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August
1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
LWB Special kccount
1.   For the purposes of this Sche-ale:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories I
through 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A through E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligi-
ble Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the LWB Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the LWB Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence
that the LWB Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to reple-
nish the LWB Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the LWB Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the LWB Special Account at such intervals as
the Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the LWB Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the LWB Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 19 -
amount of payments made out of the LWB Special Account for eligi-
ble expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the LWB Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the LWB Special Account shall
be made by the Association when either of the following situa-
tions first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for Parts A
through E of the Project, minus the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions, with respect to Parts A
through E of the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories for Parts A through E of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the LWB
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 20 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the LWB Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the LWB Special Account (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the LWB
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the LWB Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Aazociation,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
I
FOR SECRETARY


