CREDIT NUMBER 1742 MAI
Project Agreement
(Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LILONGWE WATER BOARD
Dated                            /3, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1742 MAI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             l             6, 1987, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
LILONGWE WATER BOARD (LWB).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Republic of Malawi (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 16,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that LWB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LWB, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to LWB on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS LWB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LWB declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A
through E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿- 2 -
in   conformity  with   appropriate  administrative,   financial,
engineering and public utility practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. LWB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.0& of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts A through E of the Project.
Section 2.04. LWB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, LWB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, LWB shall take all measures necessary for
the implementation of a scheme to increase, by no later than
June 30, 1988, the daily production capacity of its treatment
plant by 5,000 cubic meters per day to 35,000 cubic meters per
day.
Section 2.06. LWB shall take all reasonable measures to
ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors.
Section 2.07. (a) LWB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) LWB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by LWB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) LWB shall submit quarterly reports to the Association
in such form as the Association and LWB shall agree from time to
time.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LWB
Section 3.01. LWB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers. To that end, LWB shall employ an Engineer/Manager and
a Financial Controller whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.02. LWB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. LWB shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) LWB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate  to   reflect  in   accordance  with  sound   accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b) LWB shall:
(i) have    its  accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the LWB Special
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance   with   appropriate   auditing   principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of itdkfinancial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements,
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, LWB shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support such
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, LWB shall take all necessary measures, including, inter
alia, appropriate increases in water tariffs, to enable it to


﻿-5-
earn an annual return on the average current net value of LWB's
fixed assets in operation of not less than: (i) 2% for fiscal
year 1988/89; (ii) 3% for fiscal year 1989/90; (iii) 5% for
fiscal year 1990/91; (iv) 5% for fiscal year 1991/92; (v) 2% for
fiscal year 1992/93; (vi) 3% for fiscal year 1993/94; (vii) 4%
for fiscal year 1994/95; and (viii) 5% for fiscal year 1995/96.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
LWB's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one-half of the sum of the current net
value of LWB's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means total oper-
ating revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations.
(iv) The term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less
than 3% per annum of the average current gross
value of LWB's fixed assets in operation, or other
basis acceptable to the Association, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.
(v) The average current gross value of LWB's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one-
half of the sum of the gross value of LWB's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of LWB's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of LWB's
fixed assets in operation less the amount of accu-
mulated depreciation, as valued from time to time
in accordance with sound and consistently main-
tained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-6-
Section 4.03. LWB shall, annually, revalue its fixed assets
in accordance with sound and consistently applied methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, LWB shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of LWB shows that the estimated
net revenues of LWB for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of LWB in such year on all debt of LWB
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of LWB
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The   term  "net  revenues" means   the  difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations adjusted to take account of
LWB's rates in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate and net non-oper-
ating income; and
(B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainte-
nance, taxes and payments in lieu of t'axes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:


﻿-7-
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The term    "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the cur-
rency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servic-
ing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of LWB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  the  date   25  years  after   the  date   of  this
Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify LWB of this event.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Lilongwe Water Board:
Lilongwe Water Board
P. 0. Box 96
Lilongwe
Malawi
Telex:
4517


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of LWB may be taken or executed by
the Engineer/Manager or such other person or persons as the
Engineer/Manager shall designate in writing, and LWB shall fur-
nish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa
LILONGWE WATER BOARD
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


