Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 17894-GUI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING (CREDIT)
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$ 4.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
PRE-SERVICE TEACHER EDUCATION PROJECT
June 26, 1998
Human Development II
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate effective as of Mav 29, 1998)
Currency Unit = GNF
US$ 1.0 -GNF 1223.5
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPL                 -  Centre d 'Appui Pedagogique et Logistique
(Pedagogic and Logistic Support Center)
CNCESE              -  Centre National de Coordination et d Evaluation du Systeme Educatif
(National Evaluation Unit)
CPFC                -  Centre de Perfectionnement et de Formation Continue
(In-Service Training Center)
DAAF                 -  Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financieres
(Administrative and Financial Directorate)
DNEE                 -  Direction Nationale de l 'Enseignement Elementaire
(National Elementary Education Directorate)
DNFPPP               -  Direction Nationale de la Formation et du Perfectionnement
Professionel des Personnels
(Department of Teacher Training)
DPE                 -  Direction Prefectorale de I Education
(Prefectoral Education Office)
EBPT                -  Education de Base Pour Tous
(Education For All)
ENI                  -  Ecole Normale d Instituteurs
(Teacher Training Institution for Primarv School Teachers)
INRAP                -  Institut National de Recherche et d Action Pedagogique
(National Pedagogic Institute)
IRE                 -  Inspection Regionale de l 'Fducation
(Regional Education Office)
KfW                 -  Kreditanstalt fitr Wiederautbau
(German Development Bank)
Vice Presidents:            Jean Louis Sarbib and Callisto Madavo
Countrv Director:           Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:             Nicholas Bumett
Task Team Leader:           Penelope Bender



MEPU                -  Aivnistere de I 'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire
(Ministry of Pre-University Education)
METFP               -  Ministere de I 'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle
(Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training)
PASE                -  Programme d 'Appui Sectoriel de I 'Education
(Education Sector Support Program)
PEMAC               -  Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit
PPSE                -  Programme de Petites Subventions d'Ecoles
(Small Grants Program)
SAAF                -  Section des Affaires Administratives et Financieres
(Administrative and Financial Unit)-
SNIEM               -  Service National de I 'Infrastructure, de I 'Equipement et de la Maintenance
(National Construction, Equipment and Maintenance Unit (METFP))
SNIES               -  Service National de I 'Infrastructure et de I 'Equipement Scolaire
(National School Construction and Equipment Unit (AB-EPU))
SSP                 -  Service des Statistiques et de la Planif cation
(Statistics and Planning Unit)
ST-PASE             -  Secretariat Technique du PASE
(Technical Secretariat of PASE)
UPE                 -  Universal Primary Education
USAID               -  United States Agency for Intemational Development



GUINEA
Pre-Service Teacher Education Project
Table of Contents
A. Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators ........................................2
Key indicators for development outcome/impact (see also Annex 1) ........................2
B. Strategic Context .....................................................3
1.  CAS objective(s) supported by the project: ..................................................                          3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy: ..................................................3
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: .....................3
C. Project Description Summary .....................................................4
1. Project components: .................................................4
2. Benefits and target population: ..................................................4
3. Institutional and implementation  arrangements: .................................................4
D. Project Rationale .....................................................5
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: ..................................5
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing andplanned): ..................................................6
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: ...........................................6
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership: .........................................6
S.  Value added of Bank support: ..................................................7
E.  Summary  Project Analyses ......................................................7
1. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4): ..................................................7
2. Financial Assessment: .................................................7
3.  Technical Assessment: ..................................................8
4. Institutional Assessment: .................................................8
5. Social Assessment: ..................................................8
6. Environmental Assessment: .........................                        .        .        .         .       .        9
7. Participatory Approach: .........................9
F. Sustainability and Risks ...........................9
1. Sustainability: .........................9
2. Critical risks: ...........................                                                                            10
3. Possible controversial aspects: ......................                                                                11
G.  ain Loan Conditions                                   ......................... 12
1. Effectiveness conditions: .                                                                                           12
2. Other: ........................                                                                                        12
H. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                   ............. 13



Annexes
Annex 1:    Project Design Summary
Annex 2:    Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:    Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:    Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 4A:   Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5:    Financial Summary
Annex 6:    Financial Management, Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8:    Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:   Country at a Glance



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                               Page I of 13
Intemational Bank For Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
Africa Regional Office
AFC16
Project Appraisal Document
Guinea
Pre-Service Teacher Education
Date: June26, 1998                                                  []  Draft  [x] Final
Task Team Leader: Penelope Bender, Education Specialist,   Countiy Director: Mamadou Dia, AFC16
AFTH2
Project ID: GUI-PE-57188   Sector: Education                POC: PA
Lending Instrument: Leaming and Innovation Loan   PTI:      [X] Yes       1     No
Project Financing Data     [    Loan      [X ]   Credit   [I  Guarantee [    Other
[Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 4.1 million equivalent/SDR 3.1 million
Proposed Terns:                   [XI  Multicurrency       [   Single currency
Grace period (years):   10        [X]  Standard Variable    [   Fixed    [   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      40
Commitment fee:         0.5%
Service charge:         0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source:                                               Local            Foreign      Total
Govermment                                             0.2               0           0.2
IDA                                                    1.4               2.7         4.1
Total                                                  1.6               2.7         4.3
Borrower: Govermment of Guinea
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
Ministry of Pre-University Education



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 2 of 13
Estimated disbursements (Bank        FY99        FY00        FYOI   FY02
FY/US$M):
Annual                                2.0         1.2         0.7      0.2
Cumulative                            2.0         3.2         3.9      4.1
Expected effectiveness date: September 30, 1998  Closing date: March 31, 2002
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND KEY INDICATORS
The overall objective of the project is to develop an innovative, school-based teacher education system
with sufficient capacity to respond to Guinea's decision to provide primary education to all children. This
new approach is a radical departure in substance and philosophy from previous practice. The project is the
latest in a series of strategic interventions designed to increase access to schooling and to improve
education quality which have been designed and implemented under the Education Sector Support
Program (Programme d Appui Sectoriel de I'Education, PASE). This highly successful multi-year
program (1990-20 10) enjoys the support of other key donors, including the French Cooperation, USAID
and the European Union.
The project's specific objectives are to: (i) make teachereducation institutions more productive and less
costly (2000 trained teachers graduating per year versus current capacity of 660 and current production of
about 100; unit costs of training teachers reduced by more than 50% by shortening the duration of
institution-level training from three years of classroom training to one year of classroom training and one
year of practicum); (ii) enhance quality by strengthening links between teacher education and
school/classroom realities; and (iii) design and implement new systems for recruiting and managing
teachers on a decentralized basis, in support of an increasingly important contractual, non-civil service
teacher corps.
Key indicators for development outcome/impact (see also Annex 1)
The 'learning and innovation" aspect of a LIL means that it is impossible to specify all indicators in
advance. Additional indicators will be prepared as appropriate during the project implementation period.
The key indicators will relate to the development, testing, and implementation of the new training
program and are as follows:
(i) number of teachers trained: 2000 through the summer program (one cohort), 4000 in regular
program (two cohorts) for a total of 6000 teachers trained;
(ii) improved teaching strategies and classroom management;
(iii) development and adoption of framework for decentralized teacher career management
(including the transfer of budgetary resources to local levels, local management of teacher
contracts, strengthened teacher supervision and the introduction of teacher performance
reviews linked to salary increases) by end of project; and
(iv) female teachers representing 25% of total teachers at end of project.



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 3 of 13
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:
The project supports the CAS objective of  Document number: 1783-GUI
improving the human resource base as an input   Date of latest CAS discussion: December 16, 1997
to accelerated economic growth
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Low levels of execution of the national budget, poor management of financial resources, and
corruption. The Government strategy is to enlarge the role of the Ministry of Finance in budget
processes, including the nomination of the financial directors (Direction des Affaires Administratives et
Financieres) in the sectoral ministries and the modification of procedures for budget execution.
(b) The inconsistency between resource allocation and Government priorities. The Government
strategy is to freeze the budget at the higher levels of the system while increasing the budget for primary
education.
(c) The low quality of teaching and learning. The Govenmment strategy is to recruit better qualified
teacher candidates, to develop closer links between teacher education and classroom practice, and to
provide increased quantities of teaching and leaming materials.
(d) The high cost of primary schooling limiting access. The Government strategy is to develop lower-
cost classroom construction, increase intemal efficiency through increasing quality and providing
remedial instruction to failing students, and lower salary costs by hiring contract teachers.
(e) The inequitable provision of primary schooling. The Government strategy is to build schools and
provide teachers in rural areas and to remove barriers to girls' schooling through a sector approach that
integrates girls' concerns and perspectives.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address issues of the quality of teaching and leaming, the high cost of primary schooling,
the inequitable provision of schooling, and financial management. The Govemment chose the school-
based model of teacher education as the most promising to improve quality, as research on teacher
education has consistently underlined the need for greater links between training and classroom practice.
Two separate models will be tested under the project--a modular approach with two summer sessions in
the teacher training institutions (Ecole Normale d 'Instituteurs, EINI) sandwiched around two school years
of classroom practice, and a "standard" program, with one year in the EAUI followed by one year of
classroom practice. In each case, theEAI sessions will include classroom practice. Both approaches will
decrease costs as compared to current practice by shortening the period of teacher education. This can be
done because the intake level of students is being increased from Grade 10 to Grade 13, reducing the need
to teach general secondary subjects at the more costly teacher training institutions. The decentralization
of teacher recruitment will increase equity in teacher hiring,as all regions will be guaranteed a minimum
level of govemment financing for teacher salaries, and the decentralization of career management will
improve teacher performance and increase the efficiency of resource use, as salaries will be more closely
linked to skills and training. Changes in criteria for salary advancement include successful completion of
in-service training, and the move towards choice for in-service courses will provide an incentive for
teachers to continually improve their practice.



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 4 of 13
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project Components
Component                  Category          Cost Incl. Contingencies   % of Total
(US$M)
(a) Pre-service teacher training  Training, Equipment,        3.3                80
Works
(b) Decentralized teacher   Training, Equipment               0.7                14
career management
(c) Project Preparation Facility  Training, Equipment         0.3                 6
Total                             4.3               100
2. Benefits and target population:
The primary beneficiaries will be children of school age (7-12), particularly girls and children from rural
areas, as their access to schooling is less than that of the general population. Additional beneficiaries will
include teachers and other education system personnel (through training and professional advancement).
The target population for the teacher training consists of high school graduates (Grade 13) interested in a
teaching career. Special recruitment strategies will target female teacher candidates. Women currently
represent 25% of the teaching corps. At the previous intake level of Grade 10, they also represented about
25% of the available pool of teacher candidates. However, Guinea has extremely high female dropout
rates in upper secondary, and only about 15% of the available pool of Grade 13 graduates are female. The
project will aim to maintain the percentage of women in the teaching corps at its current level of 25%,
while ensuring that strategies are in place to increase the future numbers of women graduating from Grade
13. Both girls and women will benefit from this initiative; girls as parents are often more willing to send
their girls to schools with female teachers, and women through increased income opportunities.
Eventually, the Guinean economy will benefit from the increased productivity of a trained labor force.
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3.5 years
Executing agencies: Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (inistere de
l 'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle, METFP), Ministry of Pre-University
Education (Ministere de I 'Enseignement Pre-Universitaire, AMEPU)
Project coordination: METFP
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Joint steering committee METFP/MEPU



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                              Page 5of 13
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The technical secretariat of Guinea's
education sector reform program (Secretariat Technique--Programme d'Appui Sectoriel de l'Education,
ST-PASE) will be responsible for accounting and financial reporting (the unit has eight years of project
coordination and financial management experience); an independent auditor will be selected. Accounting
records will be kept for all project-related expenditures and financing, following generally accepted
accounting principles. The computerized project financial management system, TOMPRO, will be used.
Project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Disbursements
under SOEs will be audited semiannually. The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Given the developmental nature of a LIL, both formative
and summative evaluations have been designed. The formative evaluations will permit quick and ongoing
feedback throughout the project lifetime. The summative evaluations will provide insights for the
preparation of follow-up operations in the sector. All evaluation results will be provided to the sectoral
steering committee for operational and policy decisions as needed. A report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities will be prepared prior to June 30 of each project year, and the
conclusions will be implemented as appropriate.
Formative evaluations. Evaluation protocols will be administered to teachers and school directors at 3-
month intervals in order to facilitate the adaptation of the training program as it is developed and
implemented. Instruments are currently being designed. Impact on student learning will be monitored by
the National Center for Educational Evaluation (Cellule nationale de contr6le et d'evaluation du systeme
educatiJf CNCESE) using standardized evaluation instruments (tests for grades 2,4 and 6 in language and
math) developed under the ongoing Bank-financed project Equity and School Improvement Project; the
impact on teaching and the effectiveness of teacher mentors will be evaluated through two 3-month
studies (one each year) using classroom observation protocols and journals ("reflective practice
protocols") to be kept by selected teachers and school directors. These instruments will be used to
detennine the impact of the training program on teacher behaviors in the classroom and the results will
contribute to revision of program content. Development and implementation of policy measures will be
monitored through intemal and external evaluations, steering committee reviews and Bank supervision.
Indicators based on the logical framework have been designed (see Annex 1) and will be used to measure
the general progress of the project, its outputs and outcomes. A mid-tenn review will be carried out no
later than August 1999 in accordance with the monitoring/evaluation indicators agreed with the
Govenmment.
Summative evaluations. Independent external contractors will review project implementation and
outcomes and prepare a detailed report, including a discussion of donor and inter-ministerial coordination.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after the credit closing
date. The two ministries will contribute their own evaluation of the project to the ICR. The ICR will
analyze both the success of the overall program and the results of the IDA contribution to the sector. Both
the external report and the ICR will contribute to the preparation of the follow-on project, Education For
All (Education de Base Pour Tous, EBPT), which is scheduled for FY2000.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The two altematives considered were (a) to strengthen and continue the existing pre-service teacher



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                              Page 6 of 13
education system and (b) to finance a teacher preparation course consisting only of several months'
theoretical training. These altematives were rejected by the Guineans because of excessive cost (the first
alternative) and insufficient quality (both altematives), the concem being not only that quality not suffer
during the transition from a civil service teaching corps to a contractual-teacher corps, but that it improve
considerably.
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(conpleted, ongoing andplanned):
In 1990, Guinea developed a ten-year policy framework, known as theProgramme d'Appui Sectoriel de
l'Education (PASE). This framework has led to the development of a wide range of inter-related projects
financed by four principal donors: the World Bank, USAID, the French Cooperation and the European
Union. From 1991 through 1995, these included: a Bank-financed Sectoral Adjustment Loan, a USAID
Non-Project Assistance grant, and a range of interventions by the French Ministry ofCooperation and the
European Union. By design, the focus of these operations was on broad structural issues and capacity-
building, particularly for financial and personnel management. The period since 1995 has seen the
emergence of a number of projects focused on school-level issues and change: the Bank-financed Equity
and School Inprovement Project, a second USAID project (Fundamental Quality and Equity Levels), a
follow-up French project, and several European Union initiatives. All of these projects are ongoing and
have been complemented by other initiatives funded by Japan, KfW, GTZ, the African Development
Bank, and others. As part of the next phase of sector support, the World Bank is planning an Education
For All adaptable lending program for FY2000-2010, in which it is expected that the other major donors
will participate.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Two key lessons have been leamed from past experience in the sector: (1) the importance of solid
institutional and financial analysis; and (2) the need for close donor coordination. These lessons have
been integrated into the project design-- the institutional and financial analyses will be pursuedover the
life of the project to ensure that there is adequate information available before the development of the
proposed follow-up investment operation. Initial analyses have been conducted and are reflected in the
project design through the framework for teacher hiring and the planned arrangements for joint project
management (fETFPIMEP U). In-service teacher education in the past hassuffered from relatively weak
donor coordination. No other donors are currently working in pre-service teacher education; the
Government will coordinate the use of education system support personnel in this project and in the
USAID, French Cooperation and GTZ in-service programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is a high degree of commitment and ownership by the education ministries, parents and
communities, all of whom have been finn supporters of thePASE since its inception in 1990. Teachers'
unions are also generally supportive of the program, particularly of its emphasis on increasing teachers'
access to training and support throughout their careers. However, the priority accorded education by the
Ministry of Finance has varied with changing pressures on the budget - Guinea's participation in
ECOMOG, for example - and with the dynamics of public revenues - declining mineral revenues in the
face of falling world prices for bauxite, alumina, gold and diamonds and variable performance in tax
collection. These conditions have affected the education sector, along with weak budget planning and



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                              Page 7 of 13
execution, late payment of salaries for the contract teaching corps and delayed disbursement of
counterpart funds. Transparency in financial management also continues to be an issue in Guinea.
However, the ongoing Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) is helping the
government improve budget preparation and execution procedures and the IMF/Bank adjustment program
is weaning Guinea from its former dependence on mineral revenues by diversifying the tax base and
enhancing revenue collection.
5. Value added of Bank support:
The Bank has participated actively in the sectoral policy dialogue since the start of the decade. It has high
credibility and is closely identified in the country with the sector reform program. An important
contribution of Bank technical support has been to help Guinea move toward a greater focus on school-
and classroom-level processes, through the innovative in-service teacher education program (Programme
de petites subventions d'ecoles, PPSE) and the development of a school-level textbook rental system,
among other initiatives. Stability in the Bank team has deepened knowledge of the sector and allowed the
Bank to respond appropriately to the countiy's evolving sector needs.
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSES
(Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
1. Economtic Assessment (see Annex 4):
[]Cost-Benefit    NPV=US$ million  ERR= %   Cost effectiveness analysis  [X]  Other
Analysis:                                    will be conducted under      [Specify]
the project. The project
will support the reduction
of the training program
from three years to one,
greatly reducing costs.
Fiscal impact: By recruiting student-teachers at the end of their secondary schooling (Grade 13), the
training period in the ENI will be reduced from three years to one. Much of thecurrent three-year program
is spent improving the general education of the student-teachers. However, the secondary schools can
deliver this general education at a much lower cost than the teacher education institutions. Thus, Grade
13 recruitment into a one-year program results in substantial overall savings. The project will also
develop more efficient teacher management methods, which will increase the cost-effectiveness of
teachers. In addition, the use of the teacher education institutions year-round (for the modular program)
will permit increases in the number of teachers trained without requiring additional investment in
infrastructure or the hiring of additional full time personnel. The decentralization of recurrent budgets to
teacher education institutions will increase the efficiency and transparency of resource management.
2. FinancialAssessment
(see Annex 5)



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Countty: Guinea                                                               Page 8 of 13
3. Technical Assessment:
The project is consistent with recent developments in teacher education in many regions of the world,
most of which have never been adapted for West or Central African schools. It places the emphasis on
links between pre-service training and classroom teaching, drawing in this respect on lessons leamed from
the Professional Development Schools movement and on assessments of pre-service and in-service
training programs by researchers such as Raudenbush (1994) and others.
4. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies: TheAMEPUhas considerable experience in project design and management. It has
strong technical experience in the development and delivery of sector reform programs. TheCNCESE is
a new organization, but it is supported by the PASE and has experience in conducting assessments of
leaming at the primary level (years 2 and 4, with tests for year 6 being developed)that will be an asset for
the monitoring and evaluation of this program. The Directorate for Primary Education (Direction
nationale de 1'enseignement elmentaire, DNEE) has developed an excellent capacity for in-service
teacher training at the regional level through the PPSE program. This program has trained significant
numbers of teacher education personnel, many of whom will be involved in this project. The Department
of Teacher Training (Direction Nationale de la Formation et du Perfectionnement Professionnel des
Personnels, DNFPPP) has suffered in the past from lack of budget and overlapping responsibilities with
the DNEE and with the National Pedagogic Institute (Institut national de recherche et d'action
pedagogique (INPAP). The respective responsibilities of these departments will need to be carefully
defined in the course of the current project, as will the division of responsibilities between theDNFPPP
and the training departments in the METFP.
The MJEfTFP is a new ministry with weak capacity that will require strong support for training. However,
it understands its role as one of providing logistical and technical support to theMEPU and has been
working in a strongly collaborative mode (joint steering committee with the MEPl) that bodes well as it
starts working its way up a steep leaming curve.
b. Project management: ThePASE Technical Secretariat (ST-PASE) will be responsible for financial
and general administrative management. It has good capacity and solid experience. It will provide the
METFP accountant who will be based there with practical on-the-job training and will require very little
additional support.
5. Social Assessment:
The project will have its greatest impact in the rural areas and for poor children and girls. It will reduce
inequities by making greater numbers of better trained teachers available in those areas. Increases in the
number of female teachers will increase girls' access to schooling, as parents who are uncertain about
sending girls' to school are more likely to do so if female teachers are available. Decentralized
recruitment, training and career management will fiurther strengthen rural schools by eventually allowing
local authorities and communities to make personnel decisions as part of local school management.



Project Appraisal Document                           Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                              Page 9 of 13
6. Environmental Assessment:
The environmental category of the project will be C. No new construction is envisaged, and renovation of
ENI will include the renovation and/or addition of latrines and water, which will have a positive effect on
the environment.
7. Participatory Approach:
Ident./Preparation   Implementation      Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups           IS                  COL               COL
Intermediary NGOs                         IS                 COL               COL
Academic institutions                    COL                 COL               COL
Local government                        CON                  COL               COL
Other donors                            CON                  COL               COL
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
The project design puts a premium on both financial and pedagogical sustainability. On the financial side,
it reduces the unit cost of training a teacher by more than 50% and provides training to institution-level
financial units so that teacher education institutions can manage their own budgets. An additional issue
that teacher training institutions constantly confront is that of pedagogical sustainability: how to ensure
that teaching practices learned in the taining institution endure when conftonted with classroom realities.
To this end, the project will by design bring classrooms and training institutions together, and will
establish links between practicing primary school teachers and teacher training personnel, and between
pre-service and in-service training.



Project Appraisal Document                            Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 10 of 13
2. Crifical Risks:
(See fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk              Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Failure of government to make    High    Support to improve government financial management
sufficient govenmment funds               through the PEMAC, decentralization of budgets to
available could diminish the              regional and institutional levels, negotiation of
effectiveness of training and limit       acceptable medium-term financing framework.
the recruitment of teachers.              Up-front negotiations with teachers' unions to ensure
concems regarding working conditions are addressed,
the establishment of reliable payment procedures for
current contract teachers by the Ministry of Finance,
development and publicizing of salary-linked career
ladder for teachers.
Project components to outputs
Risk              Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Weak capacity of METFP to       Moderate  Extensive training, strong consultant support with
manage program                            focus on capacity-building, partnership with MEPU for
critical components and for policy oversight.
Inability or unwillingness of    Low      Careful selection procedures for school placement of
teacher mentors and school                new teachers, training of school principals in
directors to effectively supervise        instructional leadership, training and supplies for
new teachers                              teacher mentors, incentives for mentors through credit
toward in-service requirements.
Overall project risk rating
Risk              Risk Rating
Failure to establish a teacher  Moderate  See above.
education system for Universal
Primary Education



Project Appraisal Document                              Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                  Page 11 of 13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
In the move towards education for all, teachers will increasingly be hired on a contractual basis.
Discussions with the teachers' unions during project preparation suggest that the changes will be accepted
as long as salaries are paid on time and there are clear career ladders for teachers, including support for
training and professional development. This approach has been successful to date, but Government's
credibility has suffered as a result of delays in paying contract teachers. This will be carefully monitored
under the project, with support provided as appropriate.



Project Appraisal Document                             Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                               Page 12 of 13
G. MAIN LOAN CONDIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) Appointment of independent auditors under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
(b) Adoption of a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA, detailing procedures for
carrying out the activities under the project.
2. Other.
The main covenants are as follows:
(a) Maintenance of the ST-PASE and the Steering Committee with functions and responsibilities
and with qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, all satisfactory to the Association
throughout the period of project execution.
(b) Maintenance at all times as Project Coordinator, a national of the Borrower with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Maintenance at all times as head of ST-PASE, a national of the Borrower with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
(d) Carrying out of the studies of (i) constraints facing female teachers and (ii) modalities to
entrust the responsibility for the recruitment and management of teachers' careers to the relevant
local level by not later than February 28, 1999; submission of the results and recommendations
of the said studies to the Association for its review and comments; and prompt implementation of
the recommendations of the said studies taking into account any comments thereon made by the
association.
(e) Carrying out of a mid-tenm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project no later
than one year after Credit Effectiveness.
(f) Establishment of, in the aggregate, 5000 additional primary school teachers' positions, over
and above the number of positions existing on the payroll as of June 30, 1998, and recruitment of
qualified teachers to fill the said positions as follows: (i) a first increment of 2,000 teachers by not
later than September 30, 1998; (ii) a second increment of 1,500 teachers by not later than
September 30, 1999; and (iii) a third increment of 1,500 teachers by not later than September 30,
2000.
(g) Development of procedures for the arbitration of education personnel issues at the regional
and prefectoral levels by September 30, 1999.
(h) Establishment of computerized education personnel records at the prefectoral and regional
levels by September 30, 1999.
(i) Assurance that all funds allocated in the government budget to cover Elffs recurrent
expenditures and operating costs are available to the respective ENI no later than August 31 of



Project Appraisal Document                             Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                Page 13 of 13
each project year.
(j) Preparation of reports (a) describing the progress achieved by local authorities with respect to
recruiting and managing the careers of primary school teachers at the local level and (b)
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities prior to June 30 of each year of
Project execution (1999, 2000 and 2001).
H. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Penelope Bender                                 Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader                                  Sector Manager
EmA inuel Akpa  r
Acting Ciuntr Direc r



ProjectAppraisal Document                                    Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                Annex 1: Page I of 3
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary        Key Performance            Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Supervision              and Risks
CAS Objective                                                            (CAS Objective to
Bank Mission)
To improve the human  Primary gross enrollment    Annual review of SSP   Inprovements in the
resource base        rate (GER) of 60% by 2000   statistics.             human resource basis
from 53% in 1997 and 56%                            will reduce poverty and
in 1999.                  Annual review by school   lead to accelerated
mapping unit of each     economic growth.
prefecture's plan to increase
primary school enrollments.
Project Development                                                      Development
Objective                                                                Objectives to CAS
Objective)
To create a teacher  Training of 2000 teachers in  Review of ENI mission  Decentralized
education system for   summer program (one      statements and annual    management will lead
Universal Primary    cohort) and 2000 in each   reports.                 to better decisions about
Education            year of the year-round                              teacher selection and
program (two cohorts), for a                        management.
total of 6000 teachers
trained.
Renovation of EAI in      Review of activity reports;   Sufficient capacity in
Dubreka and N'Zerekore    site visits.              school construction
completed before September                          unit.
30, 1999.
Adequate and timely       Annual review of budget    Sufficient liquidity;
operating budgets delivered   allocation and execution.    adequate financial
to ENI before August 31,                            management systems in
1999 and 2000.                                     place.
Delays in payment of teacher Review of payroll data;
salaries of less than one  audits.
month.
Percentage of female      Review of payroll data    Adequate pool of
teachers remains stable at                         teacher candidates
25% of teaching force.                              (particularly female).
Decrease in unit cost of  Economic analysis
teacher education.



Project Appraisal Document                                   Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Counby: Guinea                                                                 Annex 1: Page 2 of3
(Outputs to
Development
Project Outputs                                                          Objectives)
Understanding what   Improved teaching strategies  Teacher self-evaluation,  Better training and
leads teachers to    and classroom management  school director and       increased support will
change classroom     (as measured on scales to be  pedagogic advisor     lead to changes in
behavior.            developed during first phase  evaluations.          teacher behavior even in
of project).              Three-year tracer study of   the face of persisting
teacher candidates at EZVI   financing shortfalls and
and in classrooms.       low salaries.
Understanding the    Increased student time on  Two 3-month classroom    Changes in teacher
links between teacher  task.                    observation studies.     behavior will increase
classroom behavior    Improved student test results  Evaluation of student  student leaming, despite
and student learning.   i ma  and French.       leam.g mraes 2,4,and  mliited availability of
6m mtadFnh   am m  re   ,n textbooks and other
6.                      materials and low
socioeconomic levels of
most students.
Understanding how to   Development and adoption    Study of teacher      Failure of government
provide career-long  of a framework for         management processes and  to make sufficient funds
support to teachers.    decentralized teacher career  results.           available could
management, including                               diminish the
transfer of teacher                                 effectiveness of training
management functions to the                         and limit recruitment of
IRE and DPE levels.                                teachers.
Transfer of operating     Quarterly reports on budget
budgets to the regional and   execution from DAAF and
prefectoral levels before  ST-PASE.
August 31, 1999 and 2000.
Development of                                      The lack of reliable
computerized education                              electricity sources could
personnel records at the IRE                        delay implementation.
and DPE levels by
September30, 1999.
Development of procedures
for the arbitration of
education personnel issues at
the IRE and DPE levels by
September 30, 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                                    Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                  Annex 1: Page 3 of3
Narrative Summary        Key Performance             Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Supervision              and Risks
Project Components                                                         (Components to
[See Annex 2 for a                                                         Outputs)
detailed description.]
1. Pre-service teacher   1. US$ 3.3 million      Student leaming outcomes,  Weak capacity of
training                                         classroom observation     METFP to manage
studies.                  program.
Inability or
unwillingness of teacher
mentors and school
directors to effectively
supervise new teachers.
2. Decentralized      2. US$ 0.7 million         Financial analysis, budget   Sufficient audit capacity
management of                                    monitoring.               can be developed and
teachers' careers                                                          institutionalized to
account for
decentralized handling
of budget funds.
3. PPF                3. US$ 0.3 million



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 2: Page I of S
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project's development objective is to provide support to the Government of Guinea in its
efforts to develop a school-based teacher education system with sufficient capacity for the shift to
universal primary education (UPE). Given Guinea's decision to promote gender equity through all
operations in the education sector, a separate section for each project component is devoted to an
examination of the gender impact of the proposed intervention. As indicated below, the project will
establish a pre-service primary school teacher education program, as well as a decentralized system
for recruiting and managing primary school teachers. It will help set the stage for Guinea's move to
UPE for which financing is expected under a World Bank credit planned for FY2000 (Education For
All Project).
Project Component 1 - Pre-service Teacher Education (US$ 3.3 million)
The approach to teacher education that will be developed over the life of this project
represents a radical departure in substance and philosophy from past practice. Teacher education was
previously based on the idea that teacher candidates would master a set of objectives and
methodologies that they would then apply throughout their teaching careers. The new perspective,
that of the teacher as a lifelong learner, requires three substantive shifts: (1) the locus of leaming
moves from the teacher education institution to the teacher's own classroom; (2) pre-service and in-
service education move closer together on a continuum of leaming; and (3) the incentive structure is
refocused on the skills and training of the individual teacher rather than on the inspectorate, as is
currently the case. Teachers' career development becomes linked to the new lifelong leaming
environment, with teachers required to take a minimum number of upgrading course credits every
four years (see component 2). The education emphasis shifts from preparing the teacher to learn a
fixed program of instruction to establishing the new teacher in a sustainable process of learning.
Consistent with the latest studies on teacher education, the pre-service teacher education activities
financed through the proposed project will be centered on the classroom.
Gender issues: The goal is to increase the percentage of female primary school teachers in the
Guinean system. Special recruitment strategies will target female teacher candidates. Women
currently represent 25% of the teaching corps. At the previous intake level of Grade 10, they also
represented about 25% of the available pool of teacher candidates. However, Guinea has extremely
high female dropout rates in upper secondary, and only about 15% of the available pool of Grade 13
graduates are female. The project will aim to maintain the percentage of women in the teaching corps
at its current level of 25%, while ensuring that strategies are in place to increase the future numbers
of women graduating from Grade 13. A study will be conducted prior to February 28, 1999 of the
difficulties female teachers face in working in rural areas and workable solutions will be sought.
Success in this area will be part of the monitoring indicators for the project. Teacher education will
include sensitization to gender bias issues.
Monitoring and evaluation: Teacher behavior in the classroom and school director and mentor
support will be measured through two 3-month studies using self-evaluations and a classroom
observation protocol. Availability of budget funds and progress in providing materials and other
resources will be evaluated as part of routine supervision by the project steering committee and
World Bank staff. Student achievement will be measured by the CNCESE, using the standardized
French and mathematics tests developed under the Equity and School Improvement Project.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Counfty: Guinea                                                      Annex 2: Page 2 of 5
(a)    Summer pre-service teacher education (US$ 0.7 million)
This dual training model will be implemented beginning in July 1998 and will coincide with
the establishment of remedial courses for primary school students having failed the previous school
year. Approximately 2000 teacher candidates will be trained at the teacher training institutions
(Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs, ENI) over four months (mid-July--mid-November 1998) and will
begin teaching in November 1998. They will receive an additional four-month training module in
1999. This training is required because of the pressing need to hire new teachers for school year
1998-99. During both four month periods, teacher candidates will receive practical training through
the provision of remedial courses to primary school students at risk of failing. Candidates will be
recruited as graduates of Grade 13 (Bac2). Due to the relatively short initial training, the new
teachers will be paired with seasoned teachers who have been specifically trained to support the new
teachers at their schools. This summer training program will be evaluated and compared to the one-
year pre-service/one year practicum approach described below. Successful graduates will receive
diplomas from the METFP after completion of the two summer training modules.
Implementation arrangements: Implementation will be the responsibility of the Director of
Teacher Training for the MEPU. It will be carried out by trainers at the teacher education institutions
and in the professional development primary schools. This will be an opportunity to revise the
schedules of teacher education institutions. Using them year-round will increase productivity
through increasing the numbers of teachers who can be trained without the cost of constructing
additional infrastructure.
The credit will finance: (1) training of trainers in teacher education institutions, school principals,
teacher mentors, pedagogic advisors and inspection staff; (2) monitoring and evaluation; (3)
textbooks and reference books; (4) teacher education materials for the EN!; (5) operating expenses;
and (6) three months' salary for trainers. These will be existingENVI staff. Assurances were obtained
that, under civil service statutes, trainers are only required to work nine months a year and are free to
devote their time to other endeavors during the school vacation periods.
(b)    One-year pre-service education with a one-year practicum (US$ 2.3 million)
This training model will be implemented beginning in October 1998. Approximately 2000
teacher candidates will be trained at the EN7 over a nine-month period (October 98-June 99). A
conceptual training model was developed in May 1998 during a preparation seminar, with an
implementation guide to be prepared at a follow-up seminar in Guinea in June 1998. Over the course
of the project, the training content will be focused around four areas of teaching methods: Methods
of French as a Second Language Teaching, Methods of Math Teaching, Methods of Science and
Technology Teaching and Methods of Social Science Teaching, as well as girls' education issues,
school health and nutrition, testing, and psychology of leaming courses. Operating expenses will be
made available directly to the EN7 for purchase of equipment and teacher candidate materials and
supplies before August 31, 1999 and 2000. During the one-year practicum, the school directors and
teacher mentors (experienced and specifically trained teachers within the schools receiving student
teachers) will be primarily responsible for providing support to the teacher candidates. Mentors will
receive credit toward their in-service teacher education requirements for this work, as well as
additional teaching supplies. Successful graduates will receive diplomas from their respective ENI.
Implementation arrangements: Implementation will be the responsibility of theDNFPPP for the
METEP, and conducted by a jointMEYFPAEPU team. It will be carried out by teachers at theEAI



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 2: Page 3 of 5
and in the professional development primary schools and by pedagogic advisors and inspection staff
at the regional and prefectoral levels.
The credit will finance: (1) training for teacher trainers, school principals, teacher mentors,
pedagogic advisors and inspection staff, (2) motorcycles, (3) equipment, (4) teacher education
materials for the EAN, (5) pedagogical kits for new teachers, (6) monitoring and evaluation and (7)
operating expenses.
(c)    Renovation of Teacher Education Institutions (US$ 0.3 million)
There are eight ENI in Guinea: at Conakry, Dubreka, Boke, Kindia, Labe, Faranah, Kankan,
and N'Zerekore. One is currently undergoing renovation, three have been renovated, and four have
fallen into a state of considerable disrepair. Each has a theoretical capacity of about 300 student
teachers, for an overall capacity of about 2400 student teachers. In fact, however, many of these
institutions have not functioned at all for many years; system-wide, the current enrloment is 320
student teachers. The current estimated capacity of the system is about 1200 students. This could be
increased to 2000 by renovating the institutions at N'Zerekore and Dubreka. It is not considered
feasible to renovate the buildings at Boke or at Faranah--these will require the construction of
entirely new facilities. This could be financed under the Bank-financed proposed Education For All
Project (FY2000). As the recent renovation of the ENIat Kindia did not include equipment, the
credit will finance the purchase of basic equipment for Kindia.
Implementation arrangements: Implementation will be the responsibility of the SlIEM, the
construction unit within the METFP. Given the weak capacity of this institution, it will receive
support from the SNIES, the corresponding structure located in the MEPU.
The credit will finance: (1) minor renovations for theENI at Conakry, Labe and Kankan, (2)
conversion of unneeded domiitory space into classrooms at the ENI at N'Zerekore, (3) major
renovations at the ENI of Dubreka, (4) basic equipment for the ENI at Kindia, (5) architectural
studies, (6) training for SNlVEMpersonnel and (7) technical assistance.
Project Component 2 - Decentralized teacher management (US$ 0.7 million)
The explosive growth within the education sector means that the ability of the central
ministries to manage teachers is decreasing. The number of schools in rural areas has greatly
increased over the last five years, and the lack of road and communications infiastructure makes
those schools especially difficult to manage centrally. The project will help theMEPU move to a
new role of facilitator in response to needs expressed at the local level. It will establish capacity-
building initiatives to give regional and prefectoral authorities the technical capacity and the financial
means to carry out their new responsibilities. This shift alone should significantly decrease existing
urban/rural inequities and will also move the system toward being more efficient and responsive to
changing needs. It will help set the stage for the ambitious Education For All Project that is
scheduled for FY2000. The two sub-components are listed below.



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 2: Page 4 of 5
Gender issues: Training will be given to theIRE and the DPE to enable them to analyze the gender
impact of changes in their regions.
Monitoring and evaluation: Development of prefectoral level teacher recruitment mechanisms and
in-service teacher education modules will be undertaken during the first year of the project. A study
of modalities to entrust the responsibility for the recruitment and management of teachers' careers
will be conducted prior to February 28, 1999. The timeliness of payment for contract teachers will be
monitored, as will operational and financial audits to verify adherence to career management and
salary guidelines.
(a)    Establishment of decentralized teacher financing mechanisms (US$ 0.2 million)
Under the new teacher financing policy, teachers will no longer be hired as civil servants.
The status of existing teachers will not change, but the teaching corps will transition towards a corps
of contractual teachers, hired on the basis of a contract signed and managed at the prefectoral level.
The central government will pay approximately 80,000 GNF per teacher per month at the entry level
for this purpose, with salary levels increasing as teachers successfully complete in-service education
and are positively evaluated. Ultimately, teacher payment will be managed through the prefectures.
Due to capacity building needs, this will not be done during implementation of the current project,
but the current project will establish the necessary conditions, and operating budgets for this purpose
will be allocated to regional and local education directorates, beginning August 31, 1999. Agreement
will be reached with teacher unions regarding the career plan for teachers, salary increments and
evaluation methods. This will be confirmed in a revision of the existing"Statut particulier des
enseignants" and other applicable employment statutes.
Implementation arrangements: Implementation will be the responsibility of the regional inspectors
(Inspecteurs Regionaux de l 'Education, IRE) and prefectoral directors (Directeurs prefectoraux de
I 'Education, DPE), in collaboration with the DAAF for the MEP U and the METFP, who will handle
negotiations with the Ministry of Finance.
The credit will finance: (1) training of the DPE and IRE SAAFs, (2) seminars with teachers,
teachers' unions, (3) preparation of procedural manuals, salary grids, etc., (4) computers and
software, (5) studies, and (6) operating expenses.
(b)    Decentralized teacher management (US$ 0.5 million)
Future teachers will be hired through the IRE with the collaboration of the DPE with the
option of moving ultimately toward a school board approach. The responsibility for ensuring the
existence of a coherent in-service education program will be that of theDPE with support from the
central Directors of Training at MEPU and METFP. Accreditation procedures will be established,
with all teachers expected to complete a minimum number of credits every four years in order to
maintain accreditation. Computerized personnel files will be developed for all teachers prior to
September 30, 1999, and will include such information as postings and courses taken to maintain
accreditation status. Over the course of the project, the relationship between theENl, the DPE, and
the regional in-service teacher education units (Centre d'Appui Pedagogique et Logistique, CAPL
and Centre de Perfectionnement et de Formation Continue, CPFC) will be defined. Procedures for
the arbitration of personnel issues at the regional and prefectoral levels will be defined by September
30, 1999. In-service courses will be developed in such a way as to give teachers choice and access to



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 2: Page 5 of 5
private sector training, and the courses will be given a credit unit value. Existing and planned donor-
supported and government-financed in-service teacher education will be integrated into this system.
Implementation arrangements: Implementation will be the responsibility of the DPE, in
collaboration with the IRE, supported by central structures.
The credit will finance: (1) training seminars for DPE, IRE and planned parent/community school
boards, (2) preparation of in-service training manuals and accreditation procedures, (3) computers
and software, (4) studies, (5) monitoring and evaluation and (6) operating expenses.
Project Preparation Facility (US$ 0.3 million)
This project has been designed by a joint Guinea/World Bank team. Initial training for the
Guinean team was financed under the PPF, as was the evaluation of existing teacher education
facilities. Given the short lead time available for preparation of this LIL and the time required for
Bank processing, the PPF was necessary to ensure timely training and availability of information for
initial assessments and appraisal, and to facilitate a seamless transition from project preparation to
implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                          Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                       Annex 3: Page 1 of I
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Project Component                                         Local         Foreign       Total
US $ million_--
Pre-Service Teacher Education                               1.2           1.8          3.0
Decentralized Teacher Financing                             0.2           0.4          0.6
Project Preparation Facility                               0.0            0.3          0.3
Total                                                       1.4           2.5          3.9
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                   0.1           0.1          0.2
Price Contingencies                                      0.1           0.1          0.2
Total Project Cost                                          1.6           2.7          4.3



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 4: Page I of 1
ANNEX 4
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
(Indicate currency, units, and base year)
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial       Taxes         Subsidies
Analysis       Analysis
Not applicable                 Not applicable
The LIL includes an ongoing study of the cost-effectiveness of the two new programs being tested as
compared to the existing program. Base-line data on costs, educational efficiency and learning
outcomes will be available by the start of school year 1998/99.
Main Assumptions:
The cost/effectiveness of the two new teacher training programs to be tested is a significant
improvement over that of the existing program.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Costs of training (old system and new trial programs) inter alia: present value of the years of
education received by candidates in the different programs; the costs of training (trainer
salaries/benefits, costs of facility use, materials, supplies, administrative overhead.
Effectiveness indicators: reduction in drop-out and repetition rates, in average years of schooling
to produce a primary graduate, student learning outcomes as measured by standardized tests.



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                  Annex 4A: Page I of 2
ANNEX 4A
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Proposed Changes in Teacher Education and Career Management
Introduction
Guinea has maintained an annual economic growth rate of 4.5% over the past five years
within a stable macroeconomic environment characterized by declining fiscal and extemal deficits.
However, 52% of Guineans continue to live below the poverty line, due in part to the high population
growth rate (3.2% annually). Since higher levels of education have been shown to contribute
strongly to economic growth and to reduce population growth rates, Guinea has placed a priority on
increasing access to education. Under the current project, analyses will be carried out to determine
the extent of these effects and to determine the cost-effectiveness of the new approach to teacher
training.
Economic Returns
In the short to medium time fiame, the best proxy for economic retums (nornally measured
in lifetime income prospects in relation to costs of education) is the quality of education delivered. In
the short term, this wil be measured by the intermediate indicators of drop-out and repetition. The
school statistics for these indicators are reliable. The hypothesis is that these indicators will faU with
the introduction of the new teacher training system. Reductions in these indicators increase the
probability of students completing their course of studies and hence the probabilities of entering the
next and subsequent levels of education. Obtaining certificates of completion at primary, lower
secondary and secondary levels will likely have a positive effect on employability (and hence
incomes) although this can only be measured through a longitudinal study. FaUing repetition and
drop-out rates would also translate into cost savings in the operation of the primary school program.
The measure used here is years of schooling. A year of schooling can be costed out by aggregating
the costs of input factors. Teacher salaries, benefits and training costs, administrative overhead, costs
of facilities use and instructional materials are the key factors. Thus, when the number of years
required to produce a primary school graduate faUl towards the norm (six years), the reduction in costs
can be measured. Objective tests of student learning have been developed and will be used for
grades 2, 4 and 6 in the course of the LIL's implementation. Both sets of measures (repetition/drop-
out and test results) wiU be used to assess the cost-effectiveness of the new teacher training approach
versus the old one by sampling schools.
Net Financial Savings
The costs of the old and new systems of teacher training over a projected five year period
will be compared to obtain the estimated net present value of savings. The old system consisted of
three years of taining (27 months net) plus one year of in-service training. The new approach
depends on better qualified candidates who wil receive one year of training plus one-year of follow-
up. The key elements in the cost comparison are: present value of the years of education of the
candidates; the costs of training (trainer salaries/benefits; cost of facilities use; materials, supplies;
administrative overhead) and the cost of follow-up (estimated as a percentage of salaries of
inspectors, principals, and master teachers based on their time inputs). After training, the annual
salary outlays for teachers from the new system wiUl be lower because the starting salary is less than



Project Appraisal Document                      Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                   Annex 4A: Page 2 of 2
in the old system. Thus, the costs of the two types of teachers over a five year period can be
compared. The new approach permits another cost reduction strategy to be explored, that of
increasing the utilization factor of existing teacher training institutes through year-round use versus
nine months use. This saving can be quantified as the present value of the costs of constructing
additional institutes (or as a percentage thereof). Eventually, the trade-off between full employment
(11 months net versus current nine months net) of the teacher trainers and marginal salary increase
could also be explored. Budget data and unit costs currently available will permit estimated savings
to be reviewed at mid-term and project completion.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 5: Page 1 of I
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Years Ending FY2002
(US$ million)
Inplementation Period          Operational Period*
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs         1.9    1.1    0.5    0.1    3.6
Recurrent Costs          0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.7
Total                 2.1    1.3    0.7    0.2    4.3
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IDA                    95.3%   95.7%   95.5%   96.5%
Government              4.7%    4.3%    4.5%    3.5%-
Total                100%   100%   100%   100%
*The economic analysis to be conducted over the life of this project will provide the estimated
operational costs of the improved teacher education system. These cost estimates will be available prior
to the Mid Term Review, scheduled for August 1999.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 6: Page 1 of 8
ANNEx 6: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
Financial Management
The ST-PASE, in collaboration with the DAAF of the METFP, wiu be responsible for
financial management and accounting. The MEPU DAAF personnel, with almost 10 years of
experience working with IDA projects, will provide technical assistance on accounting matters. Its
systems and procedures were developed with the help of technical assistance (1991-94) financed by
USAID under the PASE and were tested in 1991 with special attention to the monitoring of
expenditures at the regional and district levels, including verification of objects of expenditure
(vehicles, office equipment, books and materials) thereby making more comprehensive audits
possible. External auditors from international companies are present locally and audits are conducted
annually as per the Development Credit Agreement stipulation. A register of all vehicles and
equipment will be established as well as a computer-based system for scheduling maintenance and
purchasing spare parts. An internationally recruited management specialist, based in the Resident
Mission, provided technical assistance and troubleshooting to the MEPU DAAF and to the PASE
project unit for a period of three years (1990-1992), includingLRE and DPE DAAF staff. In addition,
USAID provided training in budget management to all DPE SAAF in 1993. TheMETFP has
appointed the forner DAAF of the AEPU as its liaison between the METFP and the MEPU for
financial management. The project will involve the devolution of budgets to the level of prefectures
and regions and to the ENI. This should present few, if any, problems since thePASE accounting
systems already operate at the regional level. However, it has been agreed that a financial
management specialist be based in the Resident Mission and the Operational Officer will provide ad
hoc assistance, as required, including field inspections. In terms of upstream monitoring of the
credits and disbursements, the Ministry of Finance has a representative on the LIL steering
committee.
Procurement
No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Guinea's procurement practices allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. Procurement of
works, goods and consultant services financed by the IDA credit will be carried out in accordance
with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, and September 1997) and Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by
the World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997, revised in September 1997. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally will be carried out in accordance with Guinea's
procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient
time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in
bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors and manufactrers;
(iv) no eligible firms is precluded from participation, regardless of nationality; (v) award will be
made to the lowest evaluated bidder whose bid is substantially responsive to the bidding documents;
and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA
and found acceptable. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all ICB
procurements. Bidding documents agreed upon by IDA and used for National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) in the Pre-Service Teacher Education Project will be used for National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procurements under the project. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposal (SRFP) forms
will also be used for the procurement of consultant services.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                    Annex 6: Page 2 of 8
Civil Works: total cost is estimated at US$ 0.29 million for the whole four project years.
Civil works contracts financed by IDA, estimated to cost US$ 0.28 million are for the renovation of
teacher education institutions in the regional capital cities. They are estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 250,000 and will be procured through
NCB procedures. Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$ 50,000, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in
writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and
relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest
price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully. These contracts will mostly be for works relating to
small renovation of existing facilities.
Goods: total cost is estimated at US$ 1.37 million, of which US$ 1.25 million will be
financed by IDA, include teaching materials, office and teaching supplies, as well as computer and
office equipment, training and audio-visual equipment and supplies, transport vehicles and electrical
equipment. Vehicles and motorcycles with an aggregate value of $ 350,000 will be procured through
Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the UNDP (IAPSO). Procurement of office equipment and
office supply estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and more than US$ 50,000 per contract up to
an aggregate amount of US$ 570,000 will be procured through NCB. Procurement of readily
available off-the-shelf goods, including reference books, or standard specifications commodities
estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$ 250,000 may be
procured through national shopping (for items available locally), and up to US$ 120,000 through
intemational shopping (for those goods not available on the national market) on the basis of
quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers. Spare parts, operating expenditures,
minor off-the-shelf items and other proprietary items costing less than US$ 5,000 equivalent per
contract up to an aggregate of US$ 50,000 equivalent, may be procured directly from manufacturers
and authorized local distributors.
Consultant Services and Training: financed by IDA will be for: (i) studies, works
supervision, data collection, design and operation of accounting systems, audits and impact analysis;
(ii) short term consultancies for specific technical matters such as planning, contractual services and
training courses design; and (iii) training. Total cost of consultant services, including training and
monitoring and evaluation activities is estimated at US$ 1.70 million, of which US$ 1.70 million will
be financed by IDA. All consultants will be hired in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January, 1997, revised in
September 1997. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 will be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of
the services to be provided. For audits of a standard nature, Least-Cost Selection will be the most
appropriate method - the firn with the lowest price will be selected, provided its technical proposal
receives the minimum mark required. Services for short-term or ad hoc consultancies, lectures and
small studies which can be delivered by Individual Consultants will be selected through comparison
of qualifications against job description requirements among those expressing interest in the
assignment or approached directly. For trining in-country, the program -- containing names of
candidates, cost estimates, content of the courses, periods of training, institution selection -- will be
reviewed by IDA annually. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for the
management of the initial trining of trainers, including the curriculum development, student-teacher
self-evaluation and student-teacher assessment.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                   Annex 6: Page 3 of 8
TABLE A: PROGRAM COSTS BY PRocUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
ICB            NCB      Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
(incl.
conting.)
1. Works                                 0.25     0.05      -        0.29
(0.23)   (0.05)            (0.28)
2. Goods                                  0.57     0.80      -       1.37
(0.57)   (0.68)            (1.25)
2.1 Equipment/fumniture,  -              0.57      0.59      -       1.16
vehicles                              (0.57)   (0.48)            (1.05)
2.2 Textbooks/reference                            0.21      -       0.21
books                                             (0.19)             (0.19)
3. Services                                        1.70      -       1.70
(1.70)           (1.66)
3.1 Training and studies,                          1.50      -       1.50
contractual services,                             (1.50)             (1.50)
short term consultancies
3.2 Monitoring and                       -         0.20      -       0.20
evaluation                                         (0.20)            (0.20)
4.1 Operating Costs                      -         0.73      -       0.73
(0.69)           (0.69)
5.1 PPF refinancing       -              -         0.25      -       0.25
(0.25)           (0.25)
Total Costs               -               0.82     3.53      -       4.34
Total Financed by IDA                     (0.80)   (3.35)            (4.14)
Note: NBF = Not Bank-Financed. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
loan/IDA credit. Total may not add up due to rounding.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                    Annex 6: Page 4 of 8
IDA Review: All contracts for civil works and purchase of goods above the threshold value of
US$100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The use of IDA's SBD will
considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review will primary focus on invitation to bid,
bid data sheet, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities/schedule of requirements and
other contract-specific items. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed by and
agreed upon with IDA during negotiations. For consultant services, prior review will include the
review of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and draft contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitmnent of consulting
finrs and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively.
The ST-PASE wil be required to maintain all relevant procurement documentation for
subsequent review by IDA. The ST-PASE wil submit to IDA periodic procurement schedules
detailing each procurement in progress and completed as part of the normal project reporting
exercise.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project litle: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 6: Page 5 of 8
TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW1
Expenditure       Contract Value            Procurement          Contracts Subject
to:
Category          (Threshold)               Methods
Prior Review *
..      ...... ..... ? ...   .....    ICB     NCB     Other
above US$100,000     X                            Prior IDA review
below US$100,000             X                    Post review.
Aggregate
above US$30,000                                   amount:
US$250,000
i P.M.          t above US$100,000   X        - -                   Prior IDA review
Motorcycles & 1   above US$100,000                    IAPSO         None. Aggregate
4W drive                                                            amount
US$350,000
Equipment and    below US$100,000             X                     Post review
office supplies                                                     aggregate amount
above US$50,000                                   US$570,000
Spare parts and    below US$50,000                    X             Post review
other small                                                         aggregate amount
purchases        above US$ 5,000                                    for shopping:
National:
US$250,000
Intemational:
US$120,000
All thresholds stated in this section shall be reviewed by the Borrower and IDA on an annual basis.
Modifications may be agreed upon based on performance and actual values of procurements implemented.
Amendments to the Credit Agreement will be required after the implementation period of the first two program
years.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                   Annex 6: Page 6 of8
below US$5,000                    X             Post review.
Aggregate
direct purchase                                 amount for
National
shopping:
US$50,000
Audit, civil works  N/A              Least Cost Selection        Prior Review
design/supervis-
ion
XFinns            Above US$100,000   Qiialitv and Cost Based      Prior Review 
.........       Selection (QCBS)            Review of
Technical
Evaluation
Report before
opening financial
proposal
Training of      N/A                 Single Source Selection     Prior Review
trainers
Individuals      Above US$50,000    Section V of Consultants     Prior Review
Guidelines
Below US$50,000                                 Post Review
Disbursement
Disbursements will be made for goods, works and services that are eligible for IDA
financing. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be
disbursed over a period of four years (from 1998 to 2002).
Use of Statement of Expenses (SOEs): Supporting documentation will be retained for review
by periodic Bank supervision and external auditors.
Special Account: To facilitate disbursements, the government will open a Special Account
(SA) in a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA for IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. All IDA expenditure of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent will be paid from the SA.
The authorized allocation will be US$ 500,000. IDA will make an initial deposit of US$250,000
upon credit effectiveness. Once payments through the SA will amount to SDR 375,000, the full



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 6: Page 7 of8
authorized amount will be paid. Disbursement of the IDA credit will be fully documented and will
be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.



Project Appraisal Document                        Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                     Annex 6: Page 8 of8
TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category          Amount in SDR million   Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                                 0.20              100% of foreign
expenditures and 95% of
local expenditures
2. Equipment, vehicles and materials            0.90              100% of foreign
expenditures and 95% of
local expenditures
3. Consultants' services and training           1.10                  100%
4. Incremental operating costs 1/               0.40                  95%
5. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance     0.20           Amounts due pursuant
to Section 2.02(c) of this
Agreement
6. Unallocated                                  0.30
Total IDA credit                                3.1
lIncremental operating costs means the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, management and monitoring, such as office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and
supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.



Project Appraisal Document                       Project 7itle: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Countfry: Guinea                                                   Annex 7: Page I of I
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget: (US$000)                     Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
86                  102
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        3                    3
First Bank mission (identification)            3/30/1998           3/30/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    5/25/1998            5/25/1998
Negotiations                                   6/1/1998             6/19/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  9/30/1998           9/30/1998
Prepared by Government of Guinea: Ministry of Technical Training and Professional
Education, Ministry of Pre-University Education
Preparation assistance:          PPF
Norwegian Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project Penelope Bender
included:                        (Task Team Leader/Education Specialist, AFTH2),
Robert Prouty
(Senior Education Specialist, AFTH2),
Cherif Diallo (Operations Analyst, AFMGN),
Slaheddine Ben-Halima
(Senior Operations Officer, AFTH2),
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi
(Senior Counsel, LEGAF)
David Webber
(Financial Management Specialist, LOAAF)
Michael Wilson
(Consultant, AFTH2),
Radia Benamghar
(Information Technician, AFTH2),
Southsavy Vilay Nakhavanit
(Task Team Assistant, AFTH2)



Project Appraisal Document                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                      Annex 8: Page I of ]
ANNEx 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Activity Plan for the Summer Training Program. Idem for the year-round program. Implementation
manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Reports for March and April 1998, with specialist consultant reports on training and training
facilities.
Guidelines for Pre-Service Teacher Training in Guinea.
Assessment of Resource Requirements for Teacher Training.
Bibliography of In-Service Training.
C. Other
Education Policy Letters, 1990 and 1995.
The Relevance of ENI Training, METFP/MEPU, 1997.
Policy Letter for Training, METFP, 1997.
Human Resources and Infrastructure ("Carte scolaire"), METFP.
Note on the Reforn of Technical Education and Vocational Training, METFP.
Organization and Equipment of Training Institutions.
*Including electronic files.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                              Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                                                                                                               Annex 9: Page I of I
06/30/98
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/    Supervision Rating b/
Project ID     Credit      Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj             Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 43
Active Loans
GN-PE-1059    IDA 21120   1990  GOVT OF GUINEA                       SECOND URBAN                  0.00       57.00             0.00          3.26       -.20        0.00       S             S
GN-PE-1043    IDA 24160   1993  GOVERNMENT OF GUINEA                 POWER II                      0.00       50.00             0.00          3.53       2.19        2.19       U             U
GN-PE-1068    IDA 24070   1993  GOVT OF GUINEA                       AGR.EXPORT PROMOTION          0.00       20.80             0.00         11.96       8.60        0.00       S             S
GN-PE-1070    IDA 25740   1994  GOVERNMENT                           HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.              0.00       24.60             0.00         14.41        3.23       2.93       S             S
GN-PE-1087    IDA 27190   1995  GOVERNMENT                           EQUITY AND SCHOOL IM          0.00       42.50             0.00         28.03       13.34       0.00       HS            S
GN-PE-1078    IDA 26530   1995  GOVERNMENT                           FINANCIAL SECTOR              0.00       23.00             0.00          1.55       1.02        0.00       S             S
GN-PE-1077    IDA 28740   1996  GOVERNMENT                           MIN SECT INV PROMOT           0.00       12.20             0.00          7.51       3.32        0.00       S             S
GN-PE-1081    IDA 28390   1996  GOVERNMENT                           AGRIC SERVICES                0.00       35.00             0.00         21.44        -.06       0.00       S             S
GN-PE-1090    IDA 27870   1996  GOVERNMENT                           HIGHER EDUCATION MAN          0.00        6.60             0.00          4.80        3.11       2.39       U             S
GN-PE-1075    IDA N0170   1997  GOVERNMENT                           THIRD WATER SUPPLY            0.00       25.00             0.00         23.87         .97       0.00       S             S
GN-PE-49690   IDA 30210   1998  GOVERNMENT                           PUB.EXP.MNG.ADJ.CRD           0.00       70.00             0.00         24.30       5.86        0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                              0.00      366.70             0.00        144.66      41.38        7.51
Active Loans         Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  216.00              810.18             1,026.18
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               92.90               92.90
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  366.70              670.95             1,037.65
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :               144.66                  .14              144.80
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS   highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
P:\guinea\hr\presvc\pad\annex9.doc
Generated by the Operations Infortnation System (OIS)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Gutinea                                                                                                              Annex 10
Guinea at a glance                                                             8119/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan    Low-
Guinea     Africa  Income      Development diamond*
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        6.8       600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             560       490      500                Life expectanry
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               3.8       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        2.7        2.7      1.7     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.4        2.6      1.7     per                            p----<-   -T .- - ---. prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban populabon (% of total population)                30        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       44        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              128        92       69              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             18
Access to safe water (% of population)                 49        47       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   76        43       34                Guinea
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  50        72      105
Male                                                 59        78      112    .    ----- Low-income group
Female                                               33        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995    1996    -                            __   __-
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                            ..       ..        3.7      4.0
Gross domestic investmentGDP                   ..      ..       14.5    13.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..       ..       21.7    18.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..      ..       10.1     10.0
Gross national savingslGDP                     ..      ..        6.2      5.4
Current account balance/GDP                    ..      ..       -8.2    -7.6
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      ..        1.1      1.6     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..       ..      87.2    73.0
Total debt service/exports                    ..        ..      22.4    32.1
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..      ..       56.6
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    260.1                            Indebtedness
197545  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                     Guinea
GDP                                          4.0      4.4        4.5      5.0               Low-income group
GNP per capita                       ..      1.8       1.3       1.3    -6.5
Exports of goods and services        ..      3.0      11.3      -3.2      7.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1975    198S       1995    1996       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..      24.5    24.7      10 -
Industry                                      ..  ..  34.0  33.9    _
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       4.7      4.6            91   92   93        /  95
Services                                      ..       ..       41.5    41.4    -10       9
Private consumption                            ..      ..       81.5    81.9    -20 -
General govemment consumption                  ..      ..        8.4      8.1                   GDI   -     DP
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..       26.1     21.9
1975-85  1986-96      1995    1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..     4.2        3.5      5.0     is
Industry                                       ..     2.6        3.7      4.3     10
Manufacturing                                ..      4.1       3.1      3.0
Services                                      ..      4.7        5.2      3.8      5/,*\
Private consumption                            ..      3.8       1.7      5.2            91
General govemment consumption                  ..     4.6        3.3      2.8    . -
Gross domestic investment                      ..     2.1        7.4    -4.4    -10 -
Imports of goods and services                  ..     1.6        5.3    -8.0                   Exports    Imports
Gross national product                        ..      4.6        4.2      4.2                            -
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Project Title: Pre-Service Teacher Education
Country: Guinea                                                                                                                    Annex 10
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                     Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                          30 -
Consumer prices                                                    5.6      5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                                              5.2      3.8     20
10
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                           0 
Current revenue                                                   11.8     10.2             91   92   93   94   9s   96
Current budget balance                                             2.6      1.3               - GOP def. -C--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -6.0     -6.0
TRADE
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                               747       696      No
Other metals                                                     299      324      800 --
Aluminum                                      ..         ..       11      10       700- 
Manufactures                                   .        ..         0        0      SW -
Total imports (cif)                             ..         ..     809       714     400          F
Food  t.                                                ..        77       78      300 
Fuel and energy                                .        ..        82       87      200 -
Capital goods                                  .        ..        88       78      100 -
Export price index (1987=100)                   .         ..       93        90           90  91  92  93  94  90  06
Import price index (1987=100)                    .        ..      126       124                -r Exports   am Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                        .        ..       74        73
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996            -                    _
(millions USS)                                                                       Current arcount balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                     798       746      0
Imports of goods and services                                     960       866          90   91   92   93  94   95  06
Resource balance                                                  -162     -120
Net income                                                        -136     -148     -s-
Net current transfers                                               -7      -32
Current account balance,                                                              -      _
before official capital transfers                               -305      -300     '                         -
Financing items (net)                                             318       273
Changes in net reserves                         -3       -2        -13       27      15 -
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)              0         0       198       199
Conversion rate (local/JS$)                   20.3     24.3      979.8    998.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millions USS)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          774    1,466       3,242    2,887
IBRD                                         68        55         0         0                  F   G
IDA                                           0       117       847       883                  18 173
Total debt service                              39       72        181      242                                  863
IBRD                                          8         8         0         0
IDA                                           0         1         8        11
Composition of net resource flows                                                          E
Official grants                               3         0                   0          1024
Offidal creditors                            54        48        70        37                                   c
Private creditors                             4        18       -15        -6                                   8
Foreign direct investrment                    0         1                   0
Portfolio equity                              0         0                   0 00
679
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                  21        33        43        54      A - IRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        22        59        47      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          2         5         2         4      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     -2       17        57        43
Interest payments                             6         4         a         7
Net transfers                                -8        12        51        36
Development Economics                                                                                                  8/19/97



