Report No. PID9440
Project Name                     Guinea-Pre-Service Teacher Education...
Project (LIL)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       GNPE57188
Borrower                         Government of Guinea
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Pre-University Education and
Ministry of Technical and Professional
Education
Date PID Prepared                August 24, 2000
Projected Appraisal              May 1998
Approval Date                    May 1998
Board Date                       July 15, 1998
1. Country and Sector Background
Country Background. Guinea is richly endowed with agricultural and
mineral resources. Its rainfall regime is reliable; the climatic
variety of its natural regions means that a wide range of crops and
livestock can be raised; and, in addition to iron ore and bauxite, the
country has gold and diamond bearing formations that have recently
attracted the attention of foreign mining companies. Nevertheless,
economic performance since independence in 1958 has been poor. In the
early part of the decade, the country was consistently ranked last by
the United Nations Report on Human Development. GNP per capita is
significantly higher than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa ($560 vs.
$490), but social indicators are uniformly worse.
Sector Background. Under a Statement of Education Sector Policy issued
in May 1995, the government committed itself to: (a) shifting resources
toward primary education, with a view to increasing the gross primary
enrollment rate to 53 % by 2000 (up from 29 percent in 1990); (b)
enhancing educational quality through a series of innovative school-
based initiatives, including textbook rental, in-service teacher
training, student health and nutrition and detailed appraisal of student
learning; and (c) restructuring and streamlining higher education to
respond to changing employment priorities and tighter budget
constraints. Since that time, it has made real progress toward these
goals. Gross primary enrollment is expected to exceed 53% this year,
some two years ahead of schedule. The government has also generally
succeeded in shifting the focus of reform efforts to the school level,
and has put in place most of the planned school-based initiatives.
Hiring of new teachers has been sporadic, but has generally kept pace
with initial plans, with 1600 new teachers hired in 1998. The
restructuring of higher education as announced in the government's draft
Statement of Policy for Higher Education (March 1995) was to entail the
introduction of measures to improve quality and relevance, cost
recovery, a decrease in total scholarships, increases in teaching loads,



and increased investment in improved communications and information
systems. These changes are now beginning to be implemented.
2.      Project Objectives
The main purpose of the project is to enable the country to respond in
the short term to the need for unprecedented numbers of new teachers by
testing and piloting an innovative, low-cost approach to teacher
training which would ensure quality through school-based monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) of teacher performance.
3.      Project Description
The project would explore a new approach to teacher education: the
recruitment of high school graduates (non-graduates are currently
recruited), followed by an intensive, academic year-long program
focusing on classroom practice, with student-teachers spending 30-40- of
their time in primary school classrooms. This program would be followed
by a year-long student-teaching internship, during which student-
teachers would be supported by teacher mentors and pedagogic advisors.
Support would be provided to Guinean teacher education institutions from
similar institutions in Canada, France or Belgium, for staff and program
development, monitoring and evaluation and the development of modular,
credit-granting in-service training. This in-service training will
eventually be linked to the career advancement of teachers, and would be
a major innovation in the development of a professional, stable teaching
corps. In the medium term, teachers would be provided with vouchers
which could then be used at the training institution or in the training
program of their choice, including private, accredited programs.
4.      Project Financing
The project is expected to 'cost about US$ 4 million and would be
financed by IDA with possible participation of USAID. The project would
also launch new systems of contract based teacher recruitment and career
development linked to performance and skill upgrading, enhancing teacher
productivity.
5.      Project Implementation
The Ministry of Technical and Professional Training is responsible for
pre-service training in Guinea. The Ministry of Pre-University Education
handles in-service teacher training. Since an explicit goal of the
project is to bring the pre-service and in-service training programs
into the same classroom-based perspective, project implementation will
be carried out through a joint steering committee comprised of the
various department heads in the two ministries. This committee would
have overall responsibility for execution of the various project
components, but activities would be managed to the extent feasible at
the decentralized level. The steering committee would approve semi-
annual action plans and annual budgets prepared by the regional
education directorates, which would be responsible for implementing the
majority of activities. The project coordinator and all of the staff
would be civil servants, paid under the civil service. Finances and
payment requests would initially be managed by the Finance Directorate
- 2-



(DAF) for Pre-University Education, now responsible for managing the
education sector reform program, including the Bank-financed Equity and
School Improvement Project (PASE2). Every effort will be made throughout
project implementation to help define the responsibilities of the two
ministries in ways that are complementary and avoid duplication of
services. The M&E system, in addition to evaluating teacher classroom
performance, will systematically monitor capacity building.
6.      Project Benefits
The major external benefit of the project would be to upgrade the
quality of education by testing a cost-effective new program designed to
supply the large numbers of teachers required for expansion of the
system. This innovative approach will triple the capacity of Guinea's
teacher education institutions, allowing the country to increase the
teacher stock by at least 2000 teachers every year. The project would
also help to reduce gender and regional disparities. The major internal
benefits would be to improve the quality of teaching and learning by
ensuring a pool of qualified teacher candidates; to enhance the quality
of in-service training by linking it more carefully to classroom
practice, making it competitive and linking it to career advancement;
and to increase the efficiency of the system by reducing dropout and
repetition rates (it now takes more than 20 student-years to produce a
primary education graduate). The project will prepare the development of
Guinea's ambitious Education For All project, now planned for FY2000.
7.      Project Risks
A risk is that the system will be unable to upgrade management capacity
quickly enough prepare the large numbers of new teachers and to ensure
that materials and supplies are available in a timely fashion. This is
being addressed through an emphasis on management capacity building and
careful institutional assessment. An additional risk is the failure of
government to reach agreement on the many parameters of the new
contract-based decentralized teaching force. This innovative program has
been discussed with the teachers' unions, with the national teacher
training authorities and with parents. The proposed PPF will deepen
participation by financing additional workshops on implementation and
evaluation measures.
8.      Project Sustainability
The biggest issue in terms of sustainability is that of financing
teacher salaries. Salary costs for the teachers to be trained under this
project are in line with the projected annual allocations agreed under
the ESAF and the Public Expenditure Management Credit (PEMA). The new
budget systems put in place by the latter, notably the medium-term
expenditure framework, will permit timely budgeting and monitoring of
expenditures. Economic analysis will be conducted to assess the cost-
effectiveness of this program, and a guide is also being developed to
aid technicians and politicians in the preparation of the Education For
All phase of Guinea's sector reform program, for which teacher financing
will be the critical element.
Long-term sustainability will depend on the capacity of Guinea to
- 3 -



finance an important expansion both in the number of teachers and in the
recurrent costs associated with this expansion. This will require an
increase in the portion of the budget going to the education sector over
the medium term, an internal reallocation within the sector in favor of
primary education and a reduction in the unit cost of a teacher. This in
turn requires up-front agreements with all of the major actors involved,
including notably the teachers' unions. Guinea's many accomplishments in
the sector during the 1990s (the number of students in primary school
has tripled), and the country's decisions to move towards a contract
teaching force and to decrease the cost of teacher training are
important indications of the government's commitment to the expansion of
the sector.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Participatory approaches and an emphasis on capacity building have
proven to be the key to past success in the sector. This project is
based on demand from actors at all levels of the system, from teachers
to the Ministers of Education. Project preparation will include the
participation of all stakeholders.
10.     Poverty Category
This project will increase access to education for girls, for rural
children and for poor children, by increasing the supply of teachers.
The quality of instruction and of student learning is expected to
improve as the new programs are implemented, thus increasing the
efficiency of the system and consequently freeing capacity for
additional students.
11.     Environmental Aspects
Justification/Rationale for category C rating: The project is not
expected to have any negative environmental impact.
12.     Program Objectives Categories
The proposed project corresponds to the human resource development and
poverty alleviation objectives of the Government.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending August 25, 2000
- 4 -



