Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3119 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Pre-Service Teacher Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 20, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3119 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): “(12)
‘Participating Country’ means any 
country that the Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 
of Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
Page  2
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(b)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement from the 
Association, dated April 21, 1998 and confirmed by the Borrower on April 29, 1998; 
(c)
“ST-CPASE” means the Secrétariat Technique de Coordination du Programme 
d’Appui au Secteur Education established pursuant to Arrêté No. 1406-PRG-SGG-90, dated 
May 16, 1990 of the Borrower; 
(d)
“ENI” means Ecole Normale d’Instituteurs, any of the schools established 
by the Borrower for the purpose of training primary school teachers; 
(e)
“Steering Committee” means the joint committee, established pursuant to 
Decision No. 98/36, dated May 27, 1998, of the Borrower for the purpose of 
coordinating the formulation and implementation of education policies between MEPU and 
METFP;
(f) 
“MEPU” means Ministère de l’Enseignement Pré-Universitaire; the 
Borrower’s Ministry in charge of primary education; 
(g)
“METFP” means Ministère de l’Enseignement Technique et de la Formation 
Professionnelle; the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of technical education and 
vocational training; and
(h)
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, describing the Project 
reporting and monitoring procedures, plans and other implementation arrangements and 
specifying the performance indicators to be followed in assessing the progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
Page  3
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2008, and ending May 1, 2038.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2018, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
Page  4
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and pedagogical practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the general 
conditions:
(a) 
The Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower has recruited independent auditors in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purposes of the audit 
reports referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Finance
B.P. 579
Conakry, Guinea
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
48423 (MCI) or
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By  /s/ Mohamed Aly Thiam 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
    200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
    900,000
100% of foreign
and materials
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
  1,100,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental operating
    400,000
95%
costs
(5)
Refunding of Project
    200,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    300,000
TOTAL
  3,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, such as 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to design 
and implement a pilot, school-based teacher education system, aimed at increasing the 
internal and external efficiency of teacher education and primary schooling inter alia 
by: (a) reducing the unit cost of pre-service education for primary school teachers; 
(b) expanding the output of adequately trained teachers through better use of 
facilities currently available in existing ENIs; (c) revising the administrative 
status of teachers and establishing a performance-based career development scheme; and 
(d) decentralizing the administrative and financial management of primary school 
teachers to the most appropriate local level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Pre-Service Primary Teacher Education 
1.
(a)
Reformulation of the teacher training curriculum with a view to 
increasing the quality of the said training and shortening its duration from three 
years to two years comprised of one year of theoretical learning alternating with 
practical training in primary classrooms and one year of practice teaching under the 
mentorship and supervision of a master teacher, the school director and the 
pedagogical advisor; and
(b)
implementation of the said curriculum through recruitment and training of 
about 2000 teacher candidates per year to be certified as teachers after successful 
completion of all the requirements of the training program. 
2.
Upgrading of training for school directors, pedagogical advisors, master 
teachers and other relevant education sector personnel to enhance their skills as 
education supervisors. 
3.
Design and implementation of a pilot intensive teacher training program, 
comprised of two modules of training to be implemented during school vacations over a 
period of two consecutive years, alternating with on-the-job training, and aimed at 
training 2000 trainee teachers to enable them to undertake actual teaching assignments 
for the school year commencing in October 1998. 
4.
(a)
Formulation and implementation of an action plan aimed at promoting 
gender balance among primary school teachers; and (b) carrying out of a study to 
identify constraints facing female teachers on the job, particularly in rural areas, 
and to recommend appropriate measures to alleviate such constraints.
5.
Formulation of appropriate norms and evaluation standards to be used in 
Page  8
monitoring the progress achieved in the implementation of the teacher education 
programs referred to under paragraphs 1 and 3 above.
Part B:
Renovation of Teacher Education School Facilities 
(a)
Carrying out of the required architectural studies for, and renovation 
of, teacher education school facilities in Conakry, Dubreka, Labe, Kankan and 
Nzerekore; 
(b)
equipping of the ENI in Kindia; and 
(c)
provision of technical advisory services required under paragraph (a) 
above.
Part C:
Streamlining and Decentralizing the Management of Primary School 
Teachers’ Careers 
1.
(a)
Reformulation of the administrative framework governing the employment of 
primary school teachers with a view to recruiting all primary school teachers on a 
contractual basis; and 
(b)
design and implementation of a separate career development scheme for all 
primary school teachers recruited on a contractual basis. 
2. 
Carrying out of a study to determine appropriate modalities to transfer to 
relevant local authorities decision-making powers for recruiting and managing the 
careers of primary school teachers at the local level. 
3.
Carrying out of training activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of 
relevant local authorities to enable them to manage adequately, at the local level, 
all issues pertaining to the recruitment and compensation of primary school teachers 
and the development and management of their careers. 
* * * 
The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 1. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost more 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $570,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Page  9
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and motorcycles estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent in the aggregate 
may be procured from UNDP Inter-Agency Procurement Services in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Direct Contracting
Spare parts and goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $50,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
6.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
Page  10
of this Section. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection.
Services for audits and architectural and engineering services estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Services for studies and training estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection.
Services for launching the pilot training program under Part A.3 of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
training and studies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less 
than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  11
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
implement the Project, in accordance with the procedures set out in the 
PIM, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project;
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than June 30 of each year during the execution of 
the Project, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(d)
review with the Association, by September 30 of each year throughout the 
execution of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(e)
(i)
maintain ST-CPASE and the Steering Committee with functions and 
responsibilities and with qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, all 
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) maintain at all times as Project Coordinator a 
national of the Borrower with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association; and (iii) maintain at all times as head of ST-CPASE a national of the 
Borrower with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; 
(f)
(i)
carry out the studies referred to under Parts A.4 (b) and C.2 of 
the Project; (ii) not later than February 28, 1999, submit the results and 
recommendations of the said studies to the Association for its review and comments; 
and (iii) promptly thereafter, implement the recommendations of the said studies, 
taking into account any comments thereon made by the Association.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later 
than one year after the Effective Date, a Mid-Term Review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project. The said Mid-Term Review shall cover, among other things: 
(i) progress in meeting the Project’s objectives; and (ii) the performance by the 
Borrower of its respective obligations under the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for review and comments, a report covering items specified 
in paragraph (a) above, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in the 
execution of the Project and recommendations resulting from the studies conducted 
under the Project.
Page  12
(c)
Promptly after completing such review, the Borrower shall carry out the 
recommendations emanating from the said review, as agreed upon between the Borrower 
and the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) establish, in the aggregate, 5000 additional primary 
school teachers’ positions, over and above the number of positions existing on its 
payroll as of June 30, 1998; (b) recruit qualified teachers to fill the said positions 
as follows: (i) a first increment of 2,000 teachers shall be recruited not later than 
September 30, 1998; (ii) a second increment of 1,500 teachers shall be recruited not 
later than September 30, 1999; and (iii) a third increment of 1,500 teachers shall be 
recruited by not later than September 30, 2000.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1998, formulate the norms referred to 
under Part A.5 of the Project; and (b) use the said norms to monitor the progress 
achieved in implementing the revised teacher training programs. 
5.
The Borrower shall take all measures required on its part to ensure that all 
funds allocated in its budget to cover ENIs’ recurrent expenditures and operating 
costs are available at the level of each ENI not later than August 31 of each year 
throughout the Project implementation period.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR375,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  13
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  14
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
The Borrower shall ensure that the targets referred to below are achieved during 
the implementation of the Project. 
1.
A total of about 6,000 teacher candidates shall have been trained by June 30, 
2000. 
2.
Renovation works for ENI’s facilities in Dubreka and Nzerekore are completed by 
not later than September 30, 1999. 
3.
Delays in payment of salaries for contractual teachers are less than one month. 
4.
Periodic meetings have been held with relevant stakeholders i.e. MEPU and METFP 
staff, teachers’ unions, parents’ associations to share views and foster consensus on 
the new direction of education and teachers’ employment status.
