                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 26177

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (PPFI-Q1030; IDA-31190)

                                       ON A

                              LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.1 MILLION (equivalent to US$ 4.1 MILLION)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                                     FOR A

                     PRE-SERVICE TEACHER EDUCATION PROJECT




                                   June 24, 2003




Human Development II
Country Department 11
Africa Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = Guinean Franc (GNF)
                                            GNF1 = US$ 0.0005
                                            US$ 1 = 1,983.25 GNF

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1      December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADEA      Association pour le Développement de l'Education en Afrique (Association for the Development of
          Education in Africa)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy (Stratégie d'Appui au Pays)
CIDE      Consortium International de Développement en Education (International Consortium for Education
          Development)
CPMF      Conseiller Pédagogique Maître Formateur (Teacher Trainer & Pedagogical Advisor)
CY        Calendar Year (Année Fiscale)
DNEE      Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Elémentaire (National Elementary Education Directorate)
DNFPPP    Direction Nationale de la Formation et du Perfectionnement Professionnel des Personnels
          (Department of personnel initial and in-service training)
DPE       Direction Préfectorale de l'Education (Prefectoral Education Directorate)
EFA FTI   Education For All Fast Track Initiative (Education Pour Tous Initiative Accélérée)
ENI       Ecole Normale des Instituteurs (Training Institution for Primary School Teachers)
FIM-G     Formation Initiale des Maîtres de Guinée (Guinea Pre-service Teacher Training Project)
GER       Gross Enrollment rate (Taux brut de scolarisation)
GoG       Government of Guinea
IDA       International Development Association (Association Internationale de Développement)
INRAP     Institut National de Recherche et d'Action Pédagogique (National Pedagogic Institute)
IRE       Inspection Régionale de l'Education (Regional Education Inspection)
LIL       Learning & Innovation Loan
MEF       Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MEPU      Ministère de l'Enseignement Pré-Universitaire (Ministry of Pre-University Education)
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Review (Cadre des Dépenses à Moyen Terme)
NFQE      Niveau Fondamental de Qualité et d'Equité (Basic Level of Quality and Equity)
PPSE      Programme de Petites Subventions dans les Ecoles (Small Subsidies Program in Schools)
PSR       Project Status Report
SAAF      Section des Affaires Administratives et financières (Administrative and Financial Unit)
SNIEM     Service National de l'Infrastructure, de l'Equipement et de la Maintenance (National Construction,
          Equipment & Maintenance Unit)




                                 Vice President:        Callisto Madavo
                    Country Manager/Director:           Mamadou Dia
                      Sector Manager/Director:          Alexandre Abrantes
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:               Souleymane Sow

                                           GUINEA
                         PRE-SERVICE TEACHER EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P057188                                                      Project Name: PRE-SERVICE TEACHER
                                                                         EDUCATION
Team Leader: Souleymane Sow                                              TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 24, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PRE-SERVICE TEACHER EDUCATION                            L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1030; IDA-31190
   Country/Department: GUINEA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (100%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Decentralization (S); Gender (S); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/13/1998                                        Effective: 09/30/1998              09/03/1998
   Appraisal:    05/27/1998                                            MTR: 07/05/2000                07/05/2000
    Approval:    07/15/1998                                         Closing: 03/31/2002               03/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF GUINEA/MINISTRY OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION &
                                           VOCATIONAL TRAINING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto Madavo                                Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicholas R. Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Souleymane Sow                                 Penelope A. Bender
ICR Primary Author:             Souleymane Sow


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall objective of the Pre-Service Teacher Education Project was to develop an innovative,
school-based teacher education system with sufficient capacity to respond to Guinea's decision to provide
education to all children. The project's specific objectives were to: (a) make teacher education institutions
more productive and less costly: (i) 2,000 teachers graduating per year versus the former capacity and
production of, respectively, 660 and 100; and (ii) reducing unit costs of training teachers by 50 percent
through shortening the training duration from three years to one year of classroom training and one year of
practicum; (b) enhance quality by strengthening the links between teacher education and school/classroom
realities; and (c) design and implement new systems of teacher recruitment and management on a
decentralized basis, in support of an increasingly important contractual, non-civil service teacher corps.

The objectives of the project were realistic and the components were linked to the development objective.
They were relevant, responsive to key issues regarding the supply of teachers, and consistent with the
government's overall strategy for human resource development. They were clearly stated with measurable
key performance indicators associated with the objectives. However, due to the fact that the implementing
agency of the project was scattered among different ministerial departments, the implementation of some
important aspects of the project, such as the mentoring system of new teachers by the school principals or
associated teachers, was particularly complex, as was the implementation of teachers' contracts and salary
management

The project was the third Bank-financed project in the education sector. This Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL) was designed at a time when the education system of Guinea suffered from three critical issues
regarding teacher education: (i) a shortage of teachers at the primary level to the extent that classrooms in
some schools were closed because of a lack of teachers and children did not have access to education (as a
result, in 1998, approximately 2,500 classrooms had no teachers); (ii) the duration of pre-service teacher
education was three years and was mainly college-based with very little time allocated to teaching practice
in schools; and (iii) the output of existing teacher training colleges was only about 100 teachers annually;
far below the needs of a growing primary education system.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objective of the project remained unchanged throughout the project.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of the following two components:

Component 1. Pre-service teacher training (US$3.3 million). The purpose of this component was to
improve the supply and quality of teachers and to reduce the cost of pre-service teacher education by about
50 percent. To this end, the credit supported the following three activities:

A.       Summer pre-service education (US$0.7 million)

The purpose of this subcomponent was to train the approximately 2,000 teacher candidates over the
four-month training period (mid-July to mid-November 1998) to meet the pressing need to hire new


                                                      - 2 -

teachers for the 1998-99 school year. The credit financed the following activities: (i) training of trainers in
teacher education institutions, school principals, teacher mentors, pedagogic advisors, and inspection staff;
(ii) monitoring and evaluation; (iii) textbooks and reference books; (iv) teacher education materials for the
Teacher Training Institutions (Ecole normale des instituteurs--ENIs); (v) operating costs; and (vi) three
months' salary for trainers (existing ENI staff during their vacation period).

B.       One-year, pre-service education with one-year practicum (US$2.3 million)

This subcomponent implemented, beginning in October 1998, the nine-month training model. Following
the training period at the ENIs, candidates undertook a one-year, in-school practicum where they were
supported by the school directors and teacher mentors. The credit financed: (i) training of trainers in
teacher education institutions, school principals, teacher mentors, pedagogic advisors, and inspection staff
(ii) motorcycles; (iii) equipment; (iv) teacher education materials for the ENIs; (v) pedagogical kits for new
teachers; and (vi) operating costs.

C.       Renovation of teacher education institutions (US$0.3 million)

This subcomponent aimed at increasing the capacity of ENIs. By renovating the institutions at N'Zérékoré
and Dubreka, the production capacity would increase to approximately 2,000 per year. Additional minor
renovations would take place at other institutions; however no renovations were foreseen for the institutions
at Boké or Farannah, as these two institutions would require construction of entirely new facilities.

The credit financed: (i) minor renovations for the ENI at Conakry, Labé, and Kankan; (ii) conversion of
unneeded dormitory space into classrooms at the ENI at N'Zérékoré; (iii) major renovations at the ENI of
Dubreka; (iv) basic equipment for the ENI at Kindia; (v) architectural studies; (vi) training for the National
Construction, Equipment, and Maintenance Unit (Service national de l'infrastructure, de l'équipement et
de la maintenance--SNIEM) personnel; and (vii) technical assistance.

Component 2. Decentralized teacher career management (US$0.7 million) due to the important increase
in the number of rural schools observed in the past years and their dispersion, and the burden placed on the
government by the civil servants teachers. The objective of this component was to shift the management of
the Guinea education system from one that was centrally managed to one that is decentralized, in which the
new     role   of    the    Ministry    of  Pre-university    Education     (Ministère   de   l'enseignement
pré-universitaire--MEPU ) would be limited to the facilitation, coordination, and regulation of the
education system. This new role would also include the need to respond in a timely manner to the needs of
the regional offices which are expected to take over the daily management of the schools at the regional
level. Specifically, this component aimed at:

A.       Establishing a decentralized teacher financing mechanism (US$0.2 million)

In keeping with the aim of decentralizing teacher career management, the purpose of this subcomponent
was to establish the necessary conditions and operating budgets to allocate, beginning August 31, 1999, the
means to manage teacher payment to regional and local education directorates. The credit financed the
following activities: (i) the training of DPE and IRE SAAFs, (ii) seminars with teachers, teachers' unions,
(iii) preparation of procedural manuals and salary grids, etc., (iv) computers and software, (v) studies, and
(vi) operating expenses.




                                                     - 3 -

B.       Decentralizing teacher management (US$0.5 million)

To support the goal of hiring teaches through the IRE with the collaboration of the DPE and moving
ultimately toward a school board approach, this subcomponent aimed at defining the relationship between
the ENI, the DPE, and the regional in-service teacher education units.

To this end the credit financed the following activities: (i) training seminars for DPE, IRE, and planned
parent/community school boards, (ii) preparation of in-service training manuals and accreditation
procedures, (iii) computers and software, (iv) studies, (v) monitoring and evaluation, and (vi) operating
expenses.

3.4 Revised Components:

The two components of the project remained unchanged throughout the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated satisfactory, as the project was well embedded in Guinea's overall
strategy for the development of its human resources and achievement of education for all goal. The
objectives were realistic and fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
December 1997 which recommended improving the human resource base as an input to accelerate
economic growth. The project document was a product of extensive dialogue between the government and
the Bank. Project design and planned activities were technically sound and they took into account lessons
learned from the implementation of the two previous IDA-financed education projects, from other countries
which have designed and implemented/experienced such strategies, and from experience in teacher
education found in international literature. They were built on a number of key policy and institutional
issues regarding the training, recruitment, and management of teachers, moving away from an inefficient
and costly college-based teacher training system to a more efficient school-based training system. The
project also systematically introduced the hiring of contractual teachers at a more affordable salary rate
compared with that of civil servants who cost about twice as much. To increase the performance of the
education system, the project set out to reform teacher management from a centralized to a decentralized
system. The allocation of more than 80 percent of the credit to the teacher training component was
appropriate. The project's performance indicators focused appropriately on the process and outcomes of the
project, paying particular attention to targets at mid-term and at the end of the project. The overall
approach was rational and the project was designed to address the key issues in the sector in an achievable,
realistic manner. Project risks were appropriately identified and plans to mitigate them were adequately
incorporated into project activity plans.

However, given the overly centralized administrative and financial management system of the civil
servants, and public service and financial management systems in Guinea, the project was rather too
optimistic in setting the targets for the complete transfer of both teachers' salaries from the central level to
the decentralized level, the transfer of and management at local levels and operating budgets to ENIs, and
the development of a computerized personnel record both at the central and regional levels of education
during the three-year life of the project. There was an assumption that the government would change its
country's financial and personnel management practices quickly.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. Overall achievement of outcome objectives under the project was satisfactory. The use of a
learning and innovation loan proved to be an appropriate mechanism to test and learn about innovative
solutions which improved the cost-effectiveness of pre-service teacher training and teacher recruitment. The
project contributed to meeting the growing demand for teachers in the context of the EFA goal set for 2010.
The teacher education institutions trained a total of 7,490 teachers exceeding the project's target of 6,000.
Of the teachers trained, 36.8 percent were female, exceeding the planned target of 25 percent. The
proportion of qualified female teachers increased from 25 to 27 percent. The reform of the teacher training
system, with an annual output of about 2,400 teachers per year, allowed for a rapid expansion of the
primary school enrollment ratio from 51 percent in 1998 to 61 percent in 2001. The share of girls in total
primary school enrollment reached 44 percent in 2002, up from 33 percent in the first half of the 1990s.
Before the project, many students left the school system because of teacher shortages.

The project has yielded substantial savings: (a) unit-cost in teacher training decreased from US$742 to
US$278 over the three years of the project by shortening the duration of the training and the increased
number of students graduating each year; (b) salary expenditures were contained due to the recruitment of
all new teachers as contractual teachers with an average annual salary of GNF0.72 million compared with
the permanent teachers' salary of GNF2.4 million. The teacher education curriculum was revised and
focused more on practical teaching issues. Student teachers were supervised and provided pedagogic
support from mentors during the nine-month period of practicum or school-based training. Overall, key
supervisors of the education system expressed satisfaction with the pedagogic skills of the newly trained
teachers (see section 4.2, Table 2) . However, the impact on students' learning outcome was not assessed
during the project. An evaluation should be carried out during the follow-up project.

To support the increasingly important contractual, non-civil service teachers, the role of the central
Ministry of Education in the recruitment and posting of teachers was significantly reduced in favor of the
decentralized units. However, the decentralization of the financing mechanism was not put in place because
the country's decentralization process experienced delays.

The objective of making teacher education more productive and less costly was satisfactory. A detailed
analysis of the achievement shows that during the first summer program, 1,534 teachers were trained and
more summer (3 vs. 1 planned) and regular (4 vs. 2 planned) programs have been organized on the basis of
a dual training model: (a) 3-9-3--three months in college; nine months in primary school classroom; three
months in college; and (b) 9-9--nine months in college; nine months in a primary school classroom.




                                                     - 5 -

                   Table 1: Admission of Student Teachers by Cohort and by Gender

  Cohort                                  Male            Female            Total          % Female
  1st Cohort (August 1998)**              1,164             370             1534             24.12
 2nd Cohort (November 1998)*                926             525             1451             36.18
 3rd Cohort (October 1999)*               1,109             858             1967             43.62
 4th Cohort (July 2000)**                   504             264               768            34.38
 5th Cohort (October 2000)*                 228             203               431            47.10
 6th Cohort (July 2001)**                   456             326               782            41.69
 7th Cohort (October 2001)*                 790             352             1144             30.94
 Total Admitted                           5,177           2,900             8,077            35.90
 Excluded due to irregularities             443             144               587            24.53
  Total Trained                           4,734           2,756             7,490            36.79

** 3-9-3 training model
* 9-9 training model

There was no estimation of the teacher education unit cost at the project's appraisal. During the project, a
detailed cost analysis was never undertaken to determine whether or not unit costs had actually been
reduced by 50 percent as planned. An economic analysis conducted during the ICR (see Annex 3), shows
that the unit cost declined. It would, however, be worthwhile if the ongoing EFA project, which has a
teacher training component, would invest in putting in place a monitoring and evaluation system of the
education costs. The most important issue in this area is the lack of historical data availability on actual
expenses related to teachers' training.

The objective of revising the administrative status of teachers was satisfactorily achieved. Graduates from
teacher training colleges are no longer recruited as civil servants, but as contractual teachers. The
recruitment and deployment of contractual teachers are decentralized to the regions which have played a
greater role in the process than was the case before the project when recruitment and deployment were
centralized. By the end of the project, budgetary resources were systematically transferred on a regular
basis to local levels and delays in the payment of teachers salaries were reduced considerably to less than a
month. However, the project did not fully achieve the objective of establishing a performance-based career
development scheme. A draft career development scheme was prepared but was neither adopted nor
established by the government during the life of the project.

Teacher Training Institutions received and managed their own budgets despite initial delays. The provision
of resources directly to the ENIs, gave them more autonomy and helped them implement the new teacher
education reform. The project renovated facilities in the ENIs in order to increase their enrollment capacity.

4.2 Outputs by components:

1.      Pre-service Teacher Education (US$3.3 million)

The overall output of this component was satisfactory. The pre-service teacher education program was
successfully reformed in May 1998, during a preparation seminar, with the introduction of two teacher
training models of considerably less duration: (i) the summer pre-service teacher education program or
3-9-3 model, and (ii) the one-year, pre-service education with a one-year practicum program. This was a
drastic change and an improved teaching strategy from the pre-project era when teacher training lasted



                                                     - 6 -

three to four years of general education training with very little time spent on teaching practicum. Students
were admitted in cohorts, in order that the facilities of the teacher training colleges be used year-round.
Student-teachers of the first, fourth, and sixth cohorts were trained using the 3-9-3 model, whereas those of
the second, third, fifth, and seventh cohorts were trained via the 9-9 model. Both models worked well and
complemented each other. By alternating theory and practicum, and regular three-month discussion
sessions among themselves and with their tutors and supervisors, student-teachers had the opportunity to
evaluate/compare their areas of strengths and weaknesses with other colleagues. By the end of the project,
students of the first and second cohorts had been certified while the others were either about to be certified
or still in training.

The objective to enhance the quality of teaching strategies and classroom management through links
between teacher education and school/classroom realities was fully achieved. The quality of candidates was
improved by increasing the entry level into teacher training colleges from 10 years of general education to
12 years of general education (for female candidates) and 13 years of general education (for male
candidates). Positive discrimination in favor of female candidates obviously played an important role in
increasing the number of female students in the cohorts and consequently achieving the project's objectives.
Student-teachers were supervised and provided pedagogic support from mentors (experienced teachers and
head teachers) in practicing schools. The student-teachers also received support from tutors and pedagogic
advisers during the nine-month period of practicum or school-based training. These trainers were, in turn,
adequately trained to play their supervisory roles. However, no impact evaluation has been carried out to
measure the planned three-month classroom observation studies nor the student learning achievements and
their link with teachers' classroom behavior. It seems too early to judge the qualitative impacts such as the
new teachers' competencies on the learning achievements.

Overall, school directors, associate tutors, pedagogic advisers and tutors of the teacher training colleges
expressed satisfaction with the pedagogic skills of the newly trained teachers under the project. Results
from an evaluation study comparing the perceptions of key personnel about the pedagogic skills of teachers
revealed that newly trained teachers either in the 3-9-3 or 9-9 training obtained higher scores than teachers
who had been trained in the former system of teacher education. The evaluation also revealed that between
the two modes of training, school directors and associate teachers scored the 3-9-3 student teachers higher
than the 9-9 (see Table 2).

Interviews with parents revealed an overall satisfaction with the performance of newly trained teachers and
also the positive impact of the project on the schools. Some statements that capture parents' satisfaction
include:

"since two years there are more teachers in schools and less non-occupied classrooms"

"classroom tables lay-out is different (non pas en rangées mais en îlots)"

"since two years there are new school manuals and pupils are given home work to do" CIDE (2002)
p.60




                                                     - 7 -

             Table 2: Perceptions of school directors, Maîtres Associés, CPMF and PEN
             regarding the pedagogic skills of teachers who were trained prior to versus
              during the Pre-service Teacher Education project (average marks over 10)


       Evaluation Criteria              Training             School          Maîtres         CPMF
                                          Type             Directors        Associés        & PEN
 Training contents knowledge        Former Training           7.09            7.10            5.59
 and their integration
                                          3-9-3               7.52            7.53            7.15
                                           9-9                7.38            7.27            7.41
 Capacity in participating in       Former Training           7.63            7.46            6.16
 school and community life
                                          3-9-3               7.83            7.42            7.07
                                           9-9                7.68            7.49            7.25
 Competency in teaching the         Former Training           6.88            7.34            5.46
 training language
                                          3-9-3               7.46            7.69            6.97
                                           9-9                7.21            7.51            7.31
 Competency in teaching             Former Training           6.86            6.98            5.13
 mathematics
                                          3-9-3               7.44            7.81            7.00
                                           9-9                7.20            7.58            7.43
 Competency in using training       Former Training           6.72            6.90            4.75
 strategies
                                          3-9-3               7.74            7.90            7.39
                                           9-9                7.63            7.81            7.61
 Competency in managing             Former Training           7.24            7.46            5.06
 classroom
                                          3-9-3               7.74            7.90            7.28
                                           9-9                7.66            7.73            7.71
 Competency in learning             Former Training           6.73            6.75            4.42
 evaluation
                                          3-9-3               7.53            7.60            6.88
                                           9-9                7.47            7.73            7.38
 Competency in maintaining          Former Training           7.72            8.02            5.93
 good relations with the
 community
                                          3-9-3               7.99            7.77            7.08
                                           9-9                7.95            7.65            7.39

Source: CIDE (January 2002): Evaluation des compétences pédagogiques des maître en Guinée. Une étude
comparative entre les maître des formation antérieur et ceux issue du Projet FIM-G. Rapport Final.




                                                      - 8 -

The study also found that although there was an overall satisfaction with the performance of the newly
trained teachers, the need for continuous in-service training to improve the professional skills of the
teachers was highlighted. The link between pre-service teacher education and in-service teacher education
was found to be weak. In-service teacher education in Guinea does not systematically cover all the teachers
in the system but is offered by a few projects in specific areas of the country. Consequently, some of the
newly qualified teachers were missing this very important aspect of their professional development not only
in terms of coverage, but also in terms of training methods.

An implementation assessment of the different sub-components is as follows:

  (a)   Summer pre-service teacher education (US$0.3 million). (Satisfactory). The objective aimed at
        conducting one summer program at the start of the project and producing 2,000 teachers at the end
        of that session. The objective has been 77 percent attained (1,534 teachers trained, of which 24
        percent are women). The teachers trained in the Summer Course helped increase enrollment by
        52,000 students in 1998/99. An evaluation (CIDE, 2002) indicated that teacher's quality was
        about the same as that of other teachers. Two years after the experience, it has been decided to
        reintroduce the 3-9-3 model. Hence, student-teachers of the first, fourth, and sixth cohorts were
        trained using the 3-9-3 model, almost 40 percent of the total. (see section 4.1).

  (b)   One-year, pre-service education with one-year practicum (US$2.3 million). (Satisfactory).
        Student-teachers of the second, third, fifth, and seventh cohorts were trained using the 9-9 model.
        The new training model is based on classroom practice. To that end, training curricula were
        developed around general didactic practices, as well as specific disciplinary didactics including:
        French, mathematics, science, history, and geography.          The curricula also included learning
        evaluations and school legislation modules.

        The project also succeeded in improving and increasing the pedagogic capacity of 93 tutors in the
        teacher training colleges, as well as those of head teachers and pedagogic advisers. The pedagogic
        skills of tutors from various disciplines in the teacher training institutions (mathematics and
        French) were significantly improved through training courses that were organized at strategic
        periods in the course of the school year. Hundreds of school directors, teacher mentors, pedagogic
        advisers, and inspection staff were also trained to reinforce their capacity in pedagogy, monitoring,
        and evaluation. This was done through technical assistance. Overall, the training of key staff and
        personnel of the teacher training institutions and the schools in which the student-teachers had their
        teaching practice helped to reinforce the messages that the students received from their trainers and
        supervisors, and also maintained some consistency in the advice they received. Textbooks,
        reference materials, and teacher education materials that were procured under the project facilitated
        the teaching and learning process in the colleges. Documentation centers opened in the ENIs were
        extremely useful and served the needs of both student-teachers and the tutors. Significant quantities
        of furniture, reprographic equipment, computers, and other materials procured helped to improve
        the learning environment in the teacher training institutions. Pedagogic advisers were provided with
        motorcycles to facilitate school visits and all new teachers were provided with pedagogical kits. As
        a result of these inputs, the project was able to train more teachers. It succeeded in creating more
        space and improving the learning environment by renovating the ENIs. By alternating college
        training and internships, teachers were able to learn how to teach by actually doing, rather than
        spending more time in colleges than in classrooms. By alternating both models and using the
        teacher trainers and the college infrastructure throughout the year, the system made efficiency
        gains.




                                                     - 9 -

        Despite these important results in term of quantity of teachers trained and skills improvement of
        those in charge of trainers' training, supervision, and management, the new training model lacks an
        official training curriculum for the student teachers. It is highly recommended that follow-up
        operations place an emphasis on this aspect.

  (c)   Renovation of Teacher Education Institutions (US$0.3 million). (Satisfactory). The
        project succeeded in creating more space and improving the learning environments by renovating
        the ENIs of Conakry, Kankan, and Labé as planned, with some delays, and the construction of the
        ENI of N'Zérékoré. Civil works for the ENI in N'Zérékoré were effectively launched in 1999 but
        not delivered in a timely manner. Other renovations (in Dubréka, Labé, Conakry, and Kankan)
        were seriously delayed because bids were not launched until 2001. However, all civil works were
        completed before the end of the project. Some renovation work was undertaken at the ENI at
        Dubreka, but the latter remains in a dilapidated state and is not operational. A total of
        US$210,443.44 was invested in the training institutes civil works. In term of procurement method
        for these works, National Competitive Bidding--NCB--has only been used once out of seven
        contracts. Operating budget transfers to ENIs have been delayed. Allocations for calendar years
        2001 and 2002 were effectively transferred in March and July 2002, respectively. The project has
        provided GNF487.7 million (US$390,000 equivalent) to the different institutions to that end.

2.      Decentralized teacher management (US$0.7 million) Satisfactory. The objective of this
component was, on the one hand, to develop mechanisms for hiring and managing teachers at the regional
level and ensuring that in-service teacher education programs are organized at this level. On the other hand,
the project intended to create decentralized teacher financing mechanisms whereby teachers would no
longer be hired as civil servants, but as contractual teachers managed at the prefectoral level.

  (a)   Establishment of decentralized teacher financing mechanisms (US$0.2 million). (Satisfactory).
        All teachers graduating from the new training model are now recruited on both a global contract
        basis and by cohort. The decentralization of the financing mechanism is not yet in force because
        the overall country decentralization process has slipped. The central Ministry continued to play an
        important role in ensuring that contractual teachers' salaries were processed by the Ministry of
        Finance and transferred to the various regions in a timely manner. Delays in payment of teacher
        salaries have been reduced to one month. (Satisfactory). Delays have been considerably reduced
        and the overall objective has been met, even though the initial salary installment and payment can
        take up to three months. On the basis of the economic and political situation Guinea faced during
        project implementation, the amount of effort undertaken should be recognized.

  (b)   Decentralized     teacher   management        (US$0.5   million).  (Marginally     satisfactory). All
        student-teacher candidates' dossiers and exams are processed at the local level through IRE and
        DPE offices. There is more involvement of the regional and prefectoral education officers in the
        recruitment process and management of teachers than there was prior to the start of the project. By
        the end of the project, the role of the central Ministry of Education in Conakry in the recruitment
        and posting of teachers had been significantly reduced compared with the previous period when
        teachers were hired as civil servants. Other intended outputs such as the development of
        computerized personnel files and the establishment of accreditation procedures with all teachers
        expected to complete a minimum number of credits every four years in order to maintain
        accreditation were rather ambitious and not achieved. However, a draft teacher career plan
        including salary increments and evaluation methods was prepared, but the government never
        approved, adopted, nor implemented the plan. Similarly, regional and prefectoral directors of



                                                     - 10 -

        education attended basic computer training courses but accomplished neither the objective of
        computerizing personnel files, nor the intended analysis on gender impact. For the latter, only a
        follow-up of the percentages of women trained and in the work force has been monitored.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The planned economic analysis to be conducted over the life of the project has not been done.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Neither a financial rate of return nor other financial indicators were calculated for the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial. The three ministries involved in
the program (see section 5.2), as well as the teacher training instituttions, were able to respond to the
demand and increase teacher training output by almost ten-fold.           Major successes were obtained in
achieving the objectives in other areas (good and comprehensive teacher learning framework, improved
capacity of teacher training institutions, impressive training results, introduction of contractual base
teachers, etc.). However, the project was unable to maintain accurate cost and financing data for the
purpose of efficiency gains. Budgeted action plans were prepared on a six-month basis, but were mainly for
financial management and monthly disbursements purposes. Little of this information was used for
monitoring expenditures and the eventual unit cost of training in relation to the former teacher training
system. Procurement of most goods and services was through national shopping or sole-sourcing, and the
procedures used were often found not to be in total conformity with Bank guidelines. Recommendations for
improvement were made particularly during supervision missions and similar recommendations have been
made in order to ensure an efficient implementation of the technical education and vocational training
component of the follow-up Education for All project. Monitoring and evaluation of the technical aspects of
the project were satisfactory. Enrollment data on all of the cohorts were available as required, and
information of almost all key performance indicators were readily available. The project had a substantial
impact on developing the human resource capacity of the teacher training institutions.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The project experienced some difficulties in attracting a stable number per year of qualified candidates
(2,000) for training as planned. During the life of the project, the number of candidates decreased steadily.
In 1998, the first year of the project, a total of 2,985 students were recruited (2 cohorts) compared with
1,967 in 1999 (one cohort), 1,199 in 2000 (2 cohorts) and 1,926 in 2001 (2 cohorts). This could partly be
explained by the level of attraction of the teaching profession to school graduates and unemployed
individuals in the labor market. In the third cohort (SY1999), about 1,967 students had been admitted into
training but it was later discovered that 587 of the candidates had presented false certificates or forged
documents during the admission process and were excluded from the program. Consequently, more
attention has been paid to the dossiers submitted by the candidates and control tests have been introduced.
In July 2001 the increase of the contract teachers' salaries had a positive impact on the number of
applicants (more than 6,000 during the last two years).




                                                     - 11 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Overall, the Government demonstrated its commitment to the Project's objectives and took corrective
measures during the implementation period. The project has not faced major issues affecting its
implementation or outcomes. The project became effective on time and closed on time without
restructuring. The administrative structure of the project was very useful in ensuring the smooth
implementation of the project. A project coordinating committee made up of members from the three
Ministries concerned with teacher training, recruitment, and management (Ministry of Technical and
Professional Education, Ministry of Pre-University Education and the Ministry of Public Service) was
responsible for guiding the program. The day-to-day operation of project activities was assured by a project
coordinator aided by a technical coordinator responsible for pedagogic affairs.

The favorable macroeconomic situation in the country enabled the government to mobilize the necessary
counterpart funds for the project. The government remained committed to reforming the teacher education
system as reflected by the institutional reform measures it took to reduce training costs and to adopt a new
teacher recruitment policy that led to a significant increase in the number of teachers in the system. The
new contract policy, which is perceived as a long-term option, has impacted the increase in the GER (see
section 4.1) and the overall increase in the number of teachers (20,690 in 2002 versus 13,200 in 1998).

However, the implementation of the new contractual teacher policy is still being refined because important
elements such as teacher career development plans are not yet in place. The draft submitted to the
government, establishing the special status of contractual teachers, provided for, inter alia, the
development of a career plan and the enforcement of labor laws particularly in connection with holidays,
leave of absence, and above all, remuneration. The in-service teacher accreditation system has not yet been
put in place.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Generally speaking, the project benefited from the good performance of the project coordination team.
Frequent supervision missions, regular contact between the project unit and the Bank, as well as timely
reports helped to improve the planning of project activities. However, the following aspects should be
underlined.

  (a)   Reformulation of teacher training curriculum and shortening of its duration. The training programs
        have been revamped to suit the new philosophy of pre-service teacher training. A host of support
        measures was provided to ensure that the programs focused on quality enhancement. With a
        shorter (15 to 18 months of supervision rather than 27) and more productive (more than 2,000
        teachers compared with 200 to 400 per year) training period, the project, strictly speaking, fulfilled
        this objective. However, according to several stakeholders and some surveys that were carried out,
        even if the programs have been reformed and successful, the weight of the academic training
        should be further reduced..

  (b)   Upgrading of training for school directors, pedagogical advisors, tutors, and other relevant
        education sector personnel to enhance their skills as education supervisors. The pedagogical
        supervisory training planned for the staff was, on the whole, realized. However, the following
        negative aspects stood out clearly with respect to the monitoring of new teachers:




                                                    - 12 -

            (i) some poor adherence on the part of some local education authorities (inspectors, school
                 directors, and some supervisors) to the objectives and the approach of the FIMG model--a
                 model that they were either unaware of or unable to follow--has been noted. Thus, the
                 supervision provided did not always satisfy the requirements of the reform introduced by
                 the FIMG (erratic supervision or complete unwillingness to comply with the new teaching
                 methods for contractual teachers). This raises a serious issue, in the opinion of the
                 contractual teachers, as their evaluation and resulting certification are in the hands of these
                 supervisors.

           (ii) the difficulty in managing the annual movement of teachers resulting in the paradoxical
                 situation of schools with classes that have no teachers being selected; this was in response
                 to the requests for associate schools made by the ENIs for student-teacher practical
                 training. This implied that the associate schools change every year depending on the
                 above-mentioned movement. Few real solutions were found to address this situation.

          (iii) inadequate training of those in charge of managing the system at the local level (SAAF of
                 IRE and DPE) to enable them to fully master and control the process of computerizing the
                 management of careers and salaries despite all the hardware and software that was
                 supplied. But it must be added that the project management unit had barely any control
                 over the management of school directors and the teacher movement or that of associate
                 teachers who came under the purview of a body outside the control of the project unit. This
                 dichotomy did not always favor synergies and consultation despite the existence of bodies
                 to pilot the reform.

          (iv) The selection criteria for associate schools (accessibility, existence of all six primary
                 levels, availability of a director, existence of a associate school to benefit from the
                 presence of an experienced teacher) were not always respected. The number of associate
                 schools identified at project launch for the first cohort was not adjusted to take into
                 account the needs of the subsequent cohorts.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project was implemented between September 3, 1998, and March 31, 2002. It was approved for an
amount of US$4.1 million on July 15, 1998, and it closed as scheduled on March 31, 2002, at which time
the amount of US$223,098 was cancelled. The government also provided the necessary counterpart funds
as planned, although with some delays.




                                                     - 13 -

                 Components allocations and disbursements (IDA funds in millions US$)

              Components                Allocations     Percentage        Actual         Percentage of
                                                                      Disbursements      Allocations
 1. Pre-service training                     3.20         78.00             3.00              93.75
 2. Decentralized management of              0.60         15.00             0.60             100.00
    teachers' careers
 3. Project Preparation Facility             0.30          7.00             0.30             100.00
                 Total                       4.10        100.00             3.90              95.00



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The overall prospect for the sustainability of project activities is rated as likely. The project achieved its
basic objective of developing an innovative school-based teacher education system with sufficient capacity
to respond to Guinea's decision of providing universal primary education. The new system is efficient and
highly appreciated both by the government and other key stakeholders of the education system because of
the relatively longer periods of practice training to which the recently trained teachers are subjected
(alternating between theoretical and practical training) before certification than their colleagues of the old
system. Returning to the old system is very unlikely, especially as the new pre-service teacher education
system has proven to be more efficient in training a significant number of teachers in a relatively short time
and at a lower cost.

The newly established employment status for teachers (contractual rather then civil servants) is likely to be
sustained on the condition that other necessary and complementary activities, such as a career development
plan and an attractive remuneration package for contractual teachers, is put in place as soon as possible.
Currently the remuneration package of contractual teachers is a topic of discussion and reflection. Recently
contractual teachers' annual remuneration increased from GNF 0.72 million to GNF 1.10 million to
overcome the problems of inflation. This amount remains well below the annual pay scales of civil servant
teachers who earn approximately GNF 2.4 million, on average.

The decentralization of teacher recruitment and management is rather slow, but it is likely to be sustained
because overall the government has adopted a policy to decentralize the entire civil service. Consequently
the task for the education sector will be simplified as soon as the concept and all other conditions, such the
capacity building of personnel for the decentralized services, have been met. Currently, resources are
transferred to regions but still administratively managed by the center. It would be advisable that parents be
informed of the amounts allocated to education and to the schools, and be more involved in the use of these
resources. In addition, to strengthen the sustainability of teacher renumeration and career development,
these two issues should be further pursued within the context of the macroeconomic dialogue, and through
better coordination between all the ministries involved.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

In light of the outcomes achieved under the project, it does not seem necessary to put in place a transition
arrangement for moving to regular operations. The above analysis clearly shows that sustainability depends
above all on administrative and organizational measures, especially regarding the status of contractual
teachers, their career development, and the effective transfer of decision-making power and teacher



                                                     - 14 -

management to the local level. Within the framework of the current allocation of responsibilities between
the various ministries, it appears necessary to formalize the relationship between the Ministry in charge of
Vocational Training and the Education Ministry, which is the end-user of the teachers and is responsible
for education quality, etc. There is an obvious need for additional financial resources to consolidate these
achievements. However, these resources must come mainly from the government's budget (operating
budget of the ENIs and Education Departments, etc.). In addition, there is also a need to effectively transfer
salaries in real time, especially for teachers working in rural areas. The latter issue is of crucial importance,
but depends on the overall financial and economic situation of the country and that of the Department of
Finance. Although the relevant MTEF was set up, it was constrained by the exogenous shocks mentioned
above and the lack of progress in the government's decentralization policy as laid down in the 1997 CAS.
In addition, the government has anticipated follow-up activities under the ongoing Education For All
program. Activities of the two main components of the project are being continued within the follow-up
IDA Education for All (EFA) program which became effective a few months before this project closed. The
EFA program includes a vocational training component aimed at carrying on the pre-service teacher
education activities. They address the main issues of teacher education which are principally, increasing the
number of trained teachers, improving the quality of training, and ensuring competency in the profession. It
has also paid particular attention to strengthening the program's monitoring and evaluation capacity.
Finally, as Guinea is eligible under EFA FTI, the national report gives an important role to teacher training
and to the measures to be implemented in order to achieve this priority objective.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory.    As indicated in section 3.5, identification was consistent with government priorities.
Although it was undertaken in a short time, it was possible to find sound solutions that would quickly solve
the sensitive issue of an inadequate teacher supply in Guinea. Preparation took into account the lessons of
the past in addressing the issues of the quality of teaching and learning, the high cost of schooling, the
inequitable provision of schooling, and financial management. The design, based on Bank knowledge and
experience of the education sector in general and on experiences of similar countries, was technically and
institutionally sound. However, because of the short preparation time and the enthusiasm generated by the
prospect of increasing the teacher supply, it seemed that the time estimated for the implementation of some
key activities such as the establishment of an effective career development plan and the complete
decentralization of powers to local levels of education were highly underestimated.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. Supervision and follow-up was regular, with an average of two missions per year. Bank
missions collaborated effectively with the national project management team and relevant people in the
Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Technical Education and Professional Training, to assess their
perception of the project's impact on the education system. Close attention was paid to the project's
development objectives, in particular the attainment of the process indicators. The supervisory missions
ensured overall follow-up of progress made in an adequate manner, by focusing on the areas that needed
particular attention (efficient posting of new teachers, budget transfers to teacher education positions,
decentralization of teacher management and financing, evaluation and execution of agreed-upon studies,
etc.). In October 2000, the project development objective rating was changed from highly satisfactory to
satisfactory due to the inability of the government to effectively transfer resources from the center to the
decentralized levels as agreed. The follow-up was clearly intensified in FY 2001 and the project status
reports were more explicit on the progress achieved in these key areas. Despite that follow-up and regular


                                                     - 15 -

ratings in the PSRs for specific aspects, it should be mentioned that there was no formal M&E mechanism
that would enable specific monitoring of the evolution of a number of progress and impact indicators.

There was stability in the project's management team on the Bank side. The team members who designed
the project in 1998 continued to manage it until a change that took place in FY01 (a year before the project
closed). The skill composition of the supervision missions was adequate and suitable expertise was
mobilized, notably for the fiduciary aspects (procurement and financial management specialists).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Bank missions paid full attention to the development
objective and the financial management of the project. There were no major problems encountered.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The government established a project team to prepare the project and it played an appropriate
role in identifying the main project objectives. The project team ensured that the objectives fit within the
government's overall strategy for the country's economic development and helped to attain the goal of
providing quality education for all children. Consequently, the team worked extremely hard to design a
project that addressed the enormous inefficiencies and challenges that existed in pre-service teacher
education within a very short time (just two months). This was also a reflection of the government's high
level of commitment to solve the teacher problem.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The government showed a reasonable level of commitment throughout and provided the
counterpart funds for the project as required. The government demonstrated its commitment to the project's
objectives by complying with all covenants. However, some of the administrative actions agreed upon were
not completed as planned. For example, funds for the recurrent budgets which were to be transferred to
ENIs before August 31 each year experienced delays. At project close, a career development plan for
contractual teachers was still in draft form and had not yet been adopted by the government. The transfer of
the management of contract teachers to local authorities has been partially achieved partly because the
overall plan for the decentralization of government services is still in progress.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the project coordination unit was satisfactory. The project
coordination unit's performance was satisfactory with regard to project management and the coordination
of project activities. Timely reports of project achievements were prepared and submitted to IDA as
expected. The evaluation study undertaken at the end of the project focused more on the training process
rather than the impact of the new form of training on pupils' learning achievements which would have been
a better measure of the impact on the education system. With respect to procurement activities processing,
monitoring of financial data, and undertaking a comparative study of the unit costs of the former and the
new form of training, the project unit's performance was less satisfactory. In the design of the project
staffing, hiring fiduciary specialist was not planned. It was agreed that all procurement and financial
management activities will be performed by a former education project unit. Until the project closed, there
was no procurement specialist within the project unit. This is the reason most procurement activities were
delayed and not entirely in compliance with generally accepted procurement practices.



                                                    - 16 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. Most of the project's objectives were achieved.
Classrooms that were closed due to a lack of teachers are now open, the duration of pre-service teacher
education has been reduced, and student-teachers spend more time in classroom practice than in the former
system of training. The recruitment of teachers is now being done on a contractual basis as planned.

8. Lessons Learned

General lessons

l Decisions regarding institutional and administrative policy reforms are, in general, taken at several, and
    often different, levels. If care is not taken to bring on board all bodies involved at the onset of the
    process, the chances are likely that the implementation of the reforms will be delayed.       Consensus
    among the key players of any institutional reform is essential for successful implementation. Solving
    the perrenial problem of weak coordination between ministries is critical. Where the project was
    weakest--decentralizing teacher recruitment, solving the teacher payment problems, undertaking
    evaluations to make the link between teacher training and student acheivement--was where more than
    one ministry was involved. In retrospect, formalized links need to be established between the MOF, the
    Ministries of Education, ENI, and the public service.

l While the LIL instrument has been flexible, it would be useful if the number of performance indicators
    was determined at an earlier stage. During the course of implementation there is a tendency to be
    absorbed by the processes and not focus on conducting important and useful studies and analyses
    which would feed and give another perspective to the activities being implemented.

l The LIL strengthened the capacity in the education sector to pilot, test, and adjust the decision-making
    process to evolving situations. For example, on the issue of salaries, the low salaries and poor payment
    processes were major impediments to getting enough recruits. In July 2001, salaries of contract
    teachers were increased, which had a positive impact on the number of applicants (in the last two years
    more than 6,000 applications have been received). The 3-9-3 student-teachers who have had nine
    months of practical classroom teaching before the final training session have been able to modify the
    curricula to reflect the need for more practical classroom-based training. In this sense the LIL was a
    good mechanism to encourage learning by doing.

l Ministries of Education generally do not undertake systematic monitoring and evaluation because they
    are ill-equipped to do adequate economic and financial analysis and generate the information needed to
    understand costs. Most staff are teachers, and while there are usually planning units, they are poorly
    staffed with only statisticians and teachers. This is a general problem, but needs to be tackled upfront
    if information and analysis is to be used in the decision making.




                                                     - 17 -

Project-specific lessons

l The      involvement of associate teachers and school directors in the practical training of the
   student-teachers was extremely important in providing a solid professional basis to the student-teacher,
   stabilizing them in their respective classrooms within a very short time, and providing the necessary
   professional support that they need on a day-to-day basis within the school. However, associate
   teachers and head teachers should be selected with great care and given appropriate and sustained
   training and incentives to make them want to host, monitor, and mentor new student-teachers.

l Regular training and a coherent capacity-building program for all concerned parties (tutors in the
   college, the pedagogic advisers, associate teachers) is extremely important in ensuring that the key
   messages that are given to student teachers during training in college and in the primary schools are
   consistent.

l Lessons learned and difficulties encountered during training should be fed back into the revision of
   college-based courses for greater efficiency and relevance. However, the observations of the associate
   teachers and the lessons learned by the CPMF were not always exploited by the tutors to improve
   theory courses in the colleges. The monitoring and follow-up of student-teachers by associate teachers
   and school directors was sometimes problematic because there were a few cases of a mismatch between
   the methods used by the supervisory staff (gained from their initial training) compared with the new
   methods advocated by the child-centered methodology used in the new training programs.

l The gains obtained during the project would continue to depend on establishing strong links between
   pre-service and in-service training. The in-service training programs currently in place (PPSE ,
   Programme de petites subventions dans les écoles--Small Subsidies Program in Schools; NFQE,
   Niveau fondamental de qualité et d'équité--Basic Level of Quality and Equity) use a training
   approach that is different from the project's approach. To ensure consistency and coherence, it is
   therefore necessary to put in place an in-service teacher-training program that draws from the approach
   and contents of the current pre-service teacher education program.

l The establishment of monitoring and evaluation systems, as well as the launch of a baseline data
   collection, are a priority at the beginning of the process. Project managers attention should constantly
   be drawn to the importance of M&E, and Bank staff should pay greater attention during supervisions
   to M&E activities. All key performance indicators must be specified in measurable terms at the
   beginning of the project because of the complications of defining them when the project is in
   mid-stream. At the beginning of the project, the unit cost of teachers' training had not been determined
   and the means of verifying whether they had been reduced by 50 percent were not clearly stated.

l The increase in the entry level qualification from 10 years of general education to 12 and 13 years of
   general education, enabled the teacher training institutions to focus and spend a significant portion of
   their time on professional and pedagogic training.

l The rapidly changing composition of the teaching corps and the growing numbers of contractual
   teachers in the education system, is an urgent call for the need to adopt a career development plan. This
   would not only help to retain the teachers who are currently serving in the schools but it would also
   attract more qualified candidates to opt to join the teaching profession




                                                    - 18 -

l Adequate human, fiscal, and physical resources are extremely important for the smooth implementation
    of any program. The training of the tutors, pedagogic advisers, associate teachers and school directors,
    rehabilitation of some ENIs, the provision of textbooks and other didactic materials in the institutions,
    the provision of a means of transport to the CPMFs (motorcycles) all led to regular supervision and
    monitoring of student-teachers and consequently the smooth implementation of the project.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Summary of the Borrower's report (November 2002)

On the whole, the project execution was highly satisfactory even if some of the activities were not carried
out in the stipulated time (mainly the administrative and decentralized management reforms).

The performance of the borrower was satisfactory. It mobilized both human and financial/material
resources for the diligent implementation of the project. It pinned high hopes on the project, not only to
respond to the immediate concern of overcoming a shortage of teachers but also to enable the
implementation, in the long run, of the EFA objective that is written into its development program. The
DNFPPP (Direction Nationale de la Formation et du Perfectionnement Professionnel des Personnels),
which was in charge of project execution, managed and coordinated the various project components in a
competent and satisfactory manner and ensured that there was a frank and close collaboration with IDA.

More specifically, the borrower reviewed a number of key elements in the project, the most noteworthy of
which are:

Number of teachers trained: The project succeeded in training the 6,000 teachers as planned. However,
several strategies had to be used including the extension of the rapid training cycle, which was initially
meant to take place only once, and that too at the start of the project.

Guinea's teacher requirements: This was a need that had been felt for several years but the problem has
now been solved, thanks also to EFA. Nevertheless, the process needs to be further fine-tuned by taking
into account regional and local needs, given the demand constraints and the objective of reinforcing
decentralization,

Perception of the parents: The parents expressed satisfaction on the whole with the performance of the
teachers trained under the project, even though they were not in a position to formally evaluate their skills.
These responses no doubt reflects a very clear desire and wish on their part to have more teachers and more
schools for their children.

The educational philosophy of the FIMG as regards teacher training: The reforms introduced under the
project imply a break with the philosophy of the old system (in which the teacher was more active and
therefore at the center). One of the most important outcomes of the project is that at the end of a little over
three years, the PENs and the CPMFs have, to an extent, appropriated the new philosophy (active
pedagogy centered on student learning). But the big difficulty that remains and will take time to overcome
is the development of the ability to apply, on the basis of a theoretical understanding, the principles of the
new philosophy. It is indeed a well-known fact that in any reform process, there is an initial phase - that is
shorter or longer depending on the kind of innovations introduced- when the stakeholders in the education
system accept the new philosophy proposed insofar as it suits them. Subsequently, a few changes in



                                                    - 19 -

behavior and attitude do take place on the basis of the new guidelines. For instance, while most of the PENs
said they were satisfied with the general didactic model proposed by the project, to date few have been able
to transpose it concretely into activities in their training courses for student-teachers in the ENIs. In
addition, one of the challenges of the reform is to harmonize the educational philosophy of the project with
that of the in-service training projects and the other bodies of the education sector. A real link between
pre-service and in-service training still remains to be established as also an identification of needs and the
development of appropriate training modules. In short, the setting-up of a real teacher training policy in
Guinea would go a long way in facilitating this harmonization,

Impact of the «FIMG» project: Despite the various studies that have been carried out (PASEC since
1999 and CIDE 2002 on the training and learning process of student-teachers; ADEA on the management
of contractual teachers), the borrower is aware that it is premature, albeit difficult for the time being, to
individually assess the effects of the various factors (such as the entry profile, the quality of the training
program and trainers, the training model used or even the skills of the student-teachers trained) that
together produced the outcomes achieved. It believes that more in-depth studies covering all the cohorts
should be conducted in order to evaluate the skills actually acquired by the student-teachers and the impact
in terms of improving the learning process of primary pupils.

Payment of salaries of contractual teachers: This indicator was largely achieved and had a knock-on
effect with respect to the older contractual teachers. Better still, an enhancement in the remuneration for
contractual teachers was obtained, with an increase from 80,000 FG in 9 months to110,000 FG over 12
months.

Decentralization of the budget of the ENIs:          Though this is currently in effect, it does not stem
exclusively from the project. A lot depends on the dynamics of the decentralization process that the country
has embarked on along with its technical and financial partners,

Exchange with Partners: This was an important aspect in developing a decentralized framework for the
management of teachers but it necessitates a political decision. This decision is a key condition for
establishing a career plan for contractual teachers. As this is an eminently political subject, the project
confined itself to providing training and equipment to the staff of decentralized education structures,

Performance of the Bank: The project benefited from a new lending instrument provided by the Bank
called «LIL». Among other elements pertaining to the Bank's performance during the project execution, one
can mention the follow-up of recommendations, reviews, auditing and supervision; the initiation of relevant
training programs for procurement, disbursement and financial management; the relevance of no objections
on the various components; the quality and professionalism of the TTL.

Shortcomings and problems encountered during execution: It is possible, through a detailed analysis of
the pre-service training for elementary school teachers, to identify the main problems that can have a
negative impact on pre-service teacher training. The main difficulties are as follows:

l Those linked to recruitment, particularly with respect to checking the school documents required for
    enrolling. A large number of the candidates with a Baccalaureate and who have registered for or have
    even passed the ENI test prefer to wait for the results of the entrance tests to universities. Hence the
    difficulty in determining whether some of the candidates are really interested in enrolling at the ENI.
    This phenomenon has played a role in the loss of students.




                                                     - 20 -

l Non-compliance with the recruitment criteria for candidates by some of the managers who gave
   preference to quantity over quality.

l Cumbersome procurement procedures, due partly to the absence of a department in charge of this
   aspect within the project unit.

l Slowness in disbursing counterpart funds.


l Low level of reimbursements for field visits within the country.


l Lack of mobilization and motivation of some of the partners like those in the decentralized educational
   bodies in general and the associate schools in particular.

l Lack of mobility of the senior managers involved in the project execution.


l Non-compliance with selection criteria for associate schools.


l Instability and inadequate preparation of associate schools as regards their new role both in terms of
   supervision and their understanding of the innovations introduced under the project

l The often ambiguous language of some of the no objections of the Bank and the numerous changes to
   the TTL.

Recommendations:

l Several problems faced during the project execution related basically to partnership. An innovative
   training model can be developed only on the basis of a real partnership between the various bodies
   contributing to teacher training and primary education,

l The lack of common information about the primary syllabus and the education programs in force,
   among the various players (the student-teachers are integrated into schools during their practical
   training), gives rise to a large number of problems. It is therefore necessary, in the short term, to
   finalize the harmonization of the study programs of the ENIs with those of the primary schools and to
   increase the interaction between the PENs and those responsible for the primary school syllabi within
   INRAP. In the long run, it is important to continue the dialogue with the DNEE so that the setting-up
   and effective implementation of the new programs facilitates the integration of the student-teachers
   undergoing practical training or that of the new teachers who have completed their training,

l Continuity between pre-service training and in-service training has to be established. It is also worth
   instituting a consultation forum between the various players involved (ministries and international
   organizations) in teacher training. The coordination of pre-service and in-service training programs
   should take place both at national and regional levels. In this respect, the ENIs could play the role of a
   resource center for pre-service and in-service training,

l The transfer of skills from international experts to the stakeholders in training took place in a positive
   and gradual/progressive fashion even though it was very expensive. It is obvious that continued
   enhancement in the skills of these players is necessary. However, the ISSEG should be given the
   responsibility of improving the training at the source, i.e. at the level of the PENs and CPMFs,


                                                   - 21 -

l Strategies such as those aimed at enhancing the monthly remuneration of contractual teachers,
    developing a career plan, etc. need to be envisaged in order to keep the candidates motivated and to
    encourage them to continue with their careers after their training.

l Building the capacities of the ENIs in the development of didactic and pedagogic material needs to be
    contemplated. A program to produce didactic and pedagogic material must also be envisaged.


(b) Cofinanciers:

NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

NA

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
% of female teachers in workforce           25%                                         37.5%
Delays in teacher salaries reduced to less  Salaries paid regularly                     Globally met. However in some cases, delays
than one month                                                                          up to five months have been also observed.
                                                                                        Delays of about three months to set up initial
                                                                                        salary payment is still common.
Budget Funds transferred to ENI accounts by Budget Funds transferred to ENI accounts by Budget funds transfer to ENI accounts
8/31 each year                              8/31 each year                              encountered major delays: CY01and 02
                                                                                        budgets transferred respectively only on
                                                                                        03/02 and 07/02. This constitutes a major
                                                                                        improvement compared to the centrally
                                                                                        managed situation.
Local mgmt. of teacher contracts                                                        Teachers contracts and salaries still centrally
                                                                                        managed. In fact, the teachers do not sign
                                                                                        any contract. Once they satisfy the required
                                                                                        tests, an assignment proposal is sent to the
                                                                                        MEPU (personnel management office) by the
                                                                                        ENIs and DNEE, according to the originating
                                                                                        regions. However, the salary level results
                                                                                        from a joint decision MEPU and MEF.
Teacher performance reviews                 Teacher Performance reviews                 Not done
By close of project reviews linked with     Teacher perfomance reviews linked with      Not done
salaries. Additional indicators will be     salaries
prepared as appropriate during project
implementation.


Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Teachers trained                            6,000                                       8,199 of which 587 have been excluded.
                                                                                        Total recruited: 7,612.
% female teacher candidates                 25%                                         37.5%




1End of project




                                                              - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Pre-service teacher training                                 3.30            2.99            90.6
Decentralized teacher career management                      0.70            0.60           85.71
Project Preparation Facility                                 0.30            0.27              90

Total Baseline Cost                                          4.30            3.86
                          Total Project Costs                4.30            3.86
                  Total Financing Required                   4.30            3.86


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.25         0.05         0.00          0.30
                                   (0.00)          (0.23)      (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.28)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.57         0.80         0.00          1.37
                                   (0.00)          (0.57)      (0.68)         (0.00)       (1.25)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         1.70         0.00          1.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.70)         (0.00)       (1.70)
4. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00         0.73         0.00          0.73
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.69)         (0.00)       (0.69)
5. PPF refinancing                  0.00            0.00         0.25         0.00          0.25
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.25)         (0.00)       (0.25)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            0.82         3.53         0.00          4.35
                                   (0.00)          (0.80)      (3.37)         (0.00)       (4.17)




                                                - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.23              0.05             0.00              0.28
                                      (0.00)             (0.83)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.98)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.57              0.68             0.00              1.25
                                      (0.00)             (0.16)            (0.85)            (0.00)           (1.01)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              1.70             0.00              1.70
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.80)            (0.00)           (1.80)
4. Operating Costs                     0.00               0.00              0.67             0.00              0.67
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.64)            (0.00)           (0.64)
5. PPF refinancing                     0.00               0.00              0.25             0.00              0.25
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (0.22)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.80              3.35             0.00              4.15
                                      (0.00)             (0.99)            (3.66)            (0.00)           (4.65)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The primary objective of the project was to increase the number of students graduating from the
teacher-training institutes to meet the growing demand for teacher in context of the EFA goal set for 2010.
While the institutes were capable of training about 600 teacher-students annually, there were barely 300
students enrolled in 1997. A part of the reason for low enrollments was the long duration of pre-service
training, which in 1996/97 stretched to three yeas with one additional year of in-service training. Students
were required to have completed 10th grade of secondary school to qualify for pre-service training; it was
reported that the quality of in-coming students was not very high and a considerable part of their in-service
training was devoted to improving the general skills of student-teachers.

The project aimed to raise the cost-effectiveness of pre-service training program by (i) making the institutes
more productive by increasing the number of graduates to 2000 (from 100), and (ii) reducing the unit cost
of training by decreasing the duration of classroom training from 3 years to 1 year (plus one year of
in-service training).   To compensate for the reduction of training period, the initial level of student
qualification was increased from Grade 10 to Grade 13. The cost-effectiveness of the primary education
sector would also improve because the new teacher would be hired on a contractual basis at significantly
lower salaries.

One measure of success of the pre-service training project would be an improvement in the quality of the
education services delivered, which can be measured in terms of a reduction in dropout and repetition rates.
The two indicators (dropout and repetition) can be combined to measure the survival rates of students till
the end of primary education. If the project is effective, the number of years required to product a primary
school graduate will fall towards the norm (six years) and the concomitant reduction in cost can be
measured. A second, more obvious way to measure the cost-effectiveness of the project would be to
compare the cost of the old and new system of teacher training over a period to obtain the estimate of the
net present value of savings.

                           Table 1: Comparison of measures of performance, Guinea
                                                   1996/97                 2000/01
                                              Boys         Girls       Boys      Girls
                     Grade 1                  1.00         1.00        1.00      1.00
                     Grade 2                  0.97         0.97        1.00      0.96
                     Grade 3                  0.71         0.66        0.74      0.64
                     Grade 4                  0.47         0.40        0.49      0.39
                     Grade 5                  0.33         0.23        0.33      0.23
                     Grade 6                  0.20         0.14        0.21      0.13
                     Years of Schooling        2.2          1.7         2.3       1.7
                     Efficiency                      19%                    20%

Survival Rates: These rates measure the percentage of students surviving till the end of primary education
(6th grade) from an entering cohort of 100 students. The number of boys (Table 1), for example, surviving
till 6th grade in 1996/96, was only about 20 percent of the cohort (100 boys) that entered school in Grade 1
while only 14 percent of girls survived from the same cohort (100 girls). It is evident that there was an
insignificant change in survival rates between 2000/01 and 1996/97 suggesting that there was not much
improvement in dropout and repetition rates between the two years. Based on these rates, the average
number of years of primary schooling has not changed for both boys and girls while the efficiency of the
primary school system has improved by a small margin to 20 percent.




                                                    - 26 -

Unit cost of teacher training: The number of student-teachers who received training during the three years
are estimated at 7500, exceeding the projected number by about 1500. Costs involved in training include
the salaries of the professors, operational costs (books, transport etc.) and the cost of follow-up. Numbers
in Table 2 indicate that unit cost has come down sharply, mainly because of the rapid increase in the
number of students graduating every year from the training institutes. Unit cost, consequently, has declined
from US$742 to US$ 278 over three years of the project.

                        Table 2: Components of unit cost in teacher-training (000 US$s)
                                                            1997/98             2000/01
                 Salary                                      161                  392
                 Functionnement                               93                  203
                 Monitoring                                   40                   98
                 Total cost                                  294                  693

                 Number of students                          396                  2497

                 Unit cost1                                  742                  278
                 1In US dollars

Improvement in access: The rapid training of teachers and their inclusion in the teaching cadre allowed for
a quick expansion of primary school enrollment ratios grew rapidly from 51% in 1998 to 61% 2001.
Before the commencement of the project, many students were forced to leave the school system because of
the shortage of teachers. A part of the increase in enrollments is due to the retention of these students who
otherwise would have dropped out of the school system.

Savings in salaries: Nearly all student-teachers graduating from these institutes were hired as contractual
teachers at a much lower salary compared to permanent teachers.             The average annual salary of a
permanent teacher in 2000 was GF 2.4 million while that received by a contractual teacher was only GF
0.72 million. Since 6646 contractual teachers were employed in 2000, this represented a total annual
saving of GF 11.4 billion (US$ 6.5 million) representing 33 percent of total salary budget for primary
education in 2000.

In conclusion, the pre-service teacher-training project has yielded substantial saving in terms of lower unit
cost, improvement in access to primary education and a significant saving in teacher salaries. While there
has been no discernible improvement in educational outcomes as measured by survival rates and internal
efficiency rate, it is possible that such changes take more time and would become evident in the coming
years.




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/98 - 04/98             5    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS
                                             (4); ARCHITECT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/98 - 06/98             5    LAWYER (1);
                                             EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALISTS (3);
                                             ARCHITECT (1)
              07/98 - 08/98             7    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS
                                             (4); SCHOOL HEALTH
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             PLANNING & STATISTICS
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             TEXTBOOKS SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision
              10/98 - 11/98             3    EDUCATION                        S               S
                                             SPECIALISTS (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              03/99                     5    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS            HS              S
                                             (2); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              06/99                     4    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS            S               S
                                             (2); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); TEXTBOOKS SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/99                     7    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS            S               S
                                             (5); EDUCATION
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              07/00                     3    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS            S               S
                                             (2); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              01/02 - 02/02             3    EDUCATION SPECIALISTS
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 ICR
              12/02                     3     OPERATIONS OFFICE (1);          S               S
                                              IMPLEMENTATION
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              DISBURSEMENT
                                              ASSISTANT (1)




                                              - 28 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           32.70                         64.30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 1.90                           2.90
  Supervision                          55.70                        117.10
  ICR                                  10.71                           9.50
  Total                              101.01                         193.80




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 l Project Appraisal Document. Report No 17894-GUI, June 1998


 l Development Credit Agreement , July 1998


 l Etude sur la gestion des contractuels et leur impact sur le fonctionnement du système éducatif
     guinéen, Ministère de l'Enseignement Pré-Universitaire et de l'Education Civique, Avril 2001

 l Etude évaluative sur le processus de la formation et l'apprentissage des élèves maîtres dans les
     ENIs, leur pratique dans les écoles associées dans le cadre du Projet de Formation Initiale des
     Maîtres de Guinée (FIM-G), CIDE, Janvier 2002

 l Rapport d'achèvement du Projet «FIM-G», Ministère de l'Enseignement Technique et de la
     Formation Professionnelle, Novembre 2002,

 l Country Assistance Strategy, Progress Report for the Republic of Guinea, February 2003


 l Note Technique : Eléments de réflexion sur la formation initiale des enseignants, Alpha Mamoudou
     Diallo, Directeur Général INRAP (not dated)

 l Aide-memoires and related PSRs


 l SAP project cost details




                                              - 32 -

- 33 -

