Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6826 I1lJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT'ION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$225 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
February 6, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of January 1997)
Currency Unit = Forint (HUF)
IHUF = US$0.0060
US$1  =  HUF167.6
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1993       1994        1995        1996
US$ 1.00=       92.0        105.1      125.7       1 53.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APVRt          -  State Privatization Agency
AVRt           -  State Holding Company
AVU            -  State Property Agency
BB             -  Budapest Bank
CAR            -  Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS            -  Country Assistance Strategy
CPI            -  Consumer Price Index
EBRD           -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU             -  European Union
ECO            -  Expanded Cofinancing Operation
EFSAL          -  Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FDI            -  Foreign Direct Investment
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
ICOR           -  Incremental Capital Output Ratio
IDP            -  Institutional Development Plan
K&H            -  Commercial and Credit Bank
Kft            -  Limited Liability Company
MATAV          -  Hungarian Telecommunications Company
MAV            -  Hungarian State Railways
MBFBRt         -  Hungarian Investment and Development Bank
MFB            -  Hungarian Development Bank
MHB            -  Hungarian Credit Bsnk
MIGA           -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MKB            -  Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank
MoF            -  Ministry of Finance
MOL            -  Hungarian Oil Company
MVM            -  Hungarian Power Company
NBH            -  National Bank of Hungary
OTIVA          -  Association of Savings Cooperatives
OTP            -  National Savings Bank
PSAL           -  Public Sector Adjustment Loan
SAL            -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SAMAs          -  State Asset Management Agencies
SBS            -  State Banking Supervision
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN SUMMARY  .......................................................
INTRODUCTION    ........................................................ I
I. BACKGROUND  .            ....................................................... 1
A.     Overview  .................................................... I
B.     Emerging Macroeconomic Disequilibria and Unfinished Structural Reforms .....  2
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM    ......                   ................. .              4
A.     The Macroeconomic Framework  .................................... 4
B.     Enterprise Sector Reform  ......................................... 8
C.     Banking Sector Reform  ........................................   14
111. THE PROPOSED LOAN            ......................         .........................  22
A.  Bank's Assistance Strategy .22
B. Loan Amount and Borrower .22
C. Loan Design .22
D.   Lending and Administrative Arrangements .23
E. Disbursements .23
F. Accounts and Audits .23
G. Monitoring Arrangements .23
H.   Environmental Assessment Requirements .23
1.  Release of Funds and Tranching .24
J.     Benefits and Risks ............          ................................. 24
IV. RECOMMENDATION   .................. 24
ANNEXES
I .    Statistical Tables and Figures
II.    Background: the Enterprise and Banking Sectors
III.    Letter of Development Policy
IV.    Matrix of Key Policy Actions
V.     APVRt Initial Shareholdings in Enterprises
VI.   Institutional Development Plan for Banking Supervision
VII.   Supplementary Project Data Sheet
VIII.  Status of Bank Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oMcWduties. Iti contents may not othemwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizdtion.






REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of Hungary
Amount:                    US$225 million
Terms:                      Standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate
US Dollar single currency loans with an expected disbursement period
of 0-3 years.
Commitment Fee:            0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Objectives and Description:  The principal objective of the proposed loan is to support Hungary's
efforts to implement effective reform of its enterprise and financial
sectors. The loan would provide fast-disbursing funds for balance-of-
payments assistance in support of the Government's reform program.
The Government, in cooperation with the Bank and IMF, would aim at
maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework within which essential
structural reforms can be implemented, especially those which would
accelerate the privatization of banks and enterprises. The main elements
of the enterprise and financial sector reform program include: (i) an
enterprise privatization program targeting substantial reduction of
remaining State shareholdings in enterprises over the 1995-1997 period;
(ii) a strong program for curtailment and reduction of enterprise losses;
(iii) comprehensive regulatory development in the banking sector; and
(iv) radical improvement in bank governance in the context of a bank
privatization program aimed at privatizing all remaining State-owned
banks by end 1997.
Benefits and Risks:        The loan would assist Hungary to finalize its enterprise and banking
sector reforms, and successfully conclude an advanced and critical stage
of the transformation of its economy. The loan would support an
accelerated  program   of enterprise  privatization,  including  the
privatization  of  large  utilities,  which  has  already  achieved
unprecedented  results  and  is  likely  to  generate  substantial
demonstration effects throughout the region.  The loan would also
support the rapid curtailment of enterprise losses and help free resources
for projects of much higher returns. It would support a program of
privatization of State-owned banks and of regulatory development in the
banking sector designed to preserve financial discipline and to ensure
that scarce resources are effectively allocated to the most dynamic
enterprises. The envisioned improvement in financial intermediation is



ii
critical to growth performance, since it will enable Hungary to diminish
reliance on foreign savings to finance development.
The main risk is a weakening of political support for continued
implementation of the reform program, which would be primarily
triggered by strong disagreements within the two coalition parties, or by
strong challenges from the constitutional court. This loss of support
could result in less fiscal discipline and a weaker macroeconomic
framework, a slowdown in the privatization of enterprises and banks, or
in a less proactive and independent bank supervision. However, a
momentum has already been built in pushing forward the enterprise and
financial sector reforms.  The privatization program  has achieved
notable success and is not likely to stall. And, the recently adopted new
banking law is likely to impel development of stronger bank supervision
and more effective bank governance.
Disbursements:              The loan will be released in two equal tranches of US$112.5 million.
The first tranche will be disbursed after loan effectiveness. The second
tranche of the loan will be released upon satisfaction of the conditions
detailed in Annex IV. Release of the second tranche is expected to
follow disbursement of the first tranche by approximately twelve
months.
Rate of Return:             Not Applicable
Poverty Category:           Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:           Not Applicable
Project ID Number:          8498
Vice President:          Johannes Linn, ECA
Acting Director:         Hans Apitz, EC2
Division Chief:          Michel Noel, EC2CO
Task Manager:            Ilham Zurayk, EC2CO



Report and Recommendation of the President of the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
to the Executive Directors
on a Proposed Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan
to the Republic of Hungary
INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) to the Republic of Hungary in the amount of
US$225 million to support a comprehensive program of enterprise and financial sector reforms. The loan
would be at the Bank's standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate US Dollar
single currency loans with an expected disbursement of 0-3 years, and would be disbursed in two equal
tranches of US$112.5 million.
I. BACKGROUND
A.    Overview
2.    The Government of Hungary launched in 1990 a set of significant economic reforms aimed at
establishing a market economy. However, the authorities did not respond appropriately to the emergence
of internal and external disequilibria, as indicated by the increase of the General Government deficit to
8.3 percent of GDP and of the current account deficit to about US$4.0 billion (9.5 percent of GDP) in
1994. They also did not push forward with deeper structural reforms. Up to early 1995, the all-
encompassing, cradle-to-grave welfare system inherited from communism was left virtually intact, and
two-thirds of State assets remained to be privatized. Budget constraints in the economy were not
sufficiently tightened, as indicated by enterprise losses amounting to 7 percent of GDP in 1994. An ill-
designed out-of-court conciliation program contributed to a major decline in filings for bankruptcy and
liquidation. Large and repeated recapitalizations without any change in governance created a situation of
severe moral hazard in State-owned banks. Banking supervision remained institutionally diffuse and
operationally ineffective.
3.    In March 1995, the Hungarian Government's new economic team announced a set of measures
aimed at stabilizing the economy, including substantial cuts in fiscal expenditures, increases in fiscal
revenues, a 9 percent devaluation of the Forint, followed by a pre-announced crawling peg, and a strict
wage policy. These measures contributed to a significant improvement in Hungary's external position,
as indicated by a reduction in the current account deficit to about US$2.5 billion in 1995 (5.7 percent of
GDP). The Government realizes that further fiscal corrections will be needed to lower the current account
deficit to about US$1.7 billion, or around the level of the foreign direct investment which is sustainable
in the longer run. The Government's resolve to consolidate the stabilization efforts was clearly reflected
in the implementation of the 1996 Central Government budget. This budget resulted in a significant
contraction in the General Government deficit, from around 6.7 percent of GDP in 1995 to about 4.0
percent of GDP in 1996, and drove Hungary's current account deficit to around US$1.8 billion (4.1
percent of GDP), or very close to its long-run target. The Government's stabilization program is being
supported by an IMF Stand-By, which was approved in March 1996.
4.    The Government's stabilization measures have been accompanied by an invigoration of structural
reforms, including adoption of a new privatization law in mid-1995, and acceleration of the privatization
of State-owned banks and enterprises. These efforts resulted, in the second half of 1995, in exceptionally



2
successful privatizations of large utilities and transfer to private investors of two of the large State-owned
banks. Due to these sales, foreign direct investment in 1995 increased to a record volume of more than
US$4.4 billion (10.1 percent of GDP). The Government is continuing to implement a comprehensive and
in-depth program of structural measures, designed to complete the enterprise and banking sector reforms.
The proposed EFSAL supports the Government's 1995-1997 enterprise and banking sector program. The
Government also intends to implement a major overhaul of public finances, which would be supported
by a proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) currently under preparation.
B.    Emerging Macroeconomic Disequilibria and Unfinished Structural Reforms
Macroeconomic Disequilibria
5.     Hungary's fiscal disequilibria have their roots in the country's welfare system and the nature of
its public administration. A period of successful stabilization and fiscal retrenchment in 1989-1990 was
short-lived, and was followed by a progressive deterioration of the fiscal accounts. The fiscal problems
which have prevailed since then have been to some extent associated with a sharp output drop and a rise
in unemployment, but have resulted, more fundamentally, from the Government's failure to streamline
social programs and public administration. They have been exacerbated, more recently, by the large
interest payments on the growing public sector debt (Annex I, Table 1).
6.     The shift of the general budget from a surplus to deficits in the early 1990s did not create
immediate problems for macroeconomic stability, because it was initially accompanied by a large increase
in household savings. However, the favorable environment in 1991-92 was turned completely around in
1993. Household savings ratios dropped to levels close to those of the late 1980s. The decrease in
exports (due to the recession in Western Europe, two years of droughts and the sanctions on the former
Yugoslavia) and the increase in imports (resulting from stronger domestic absorption) resulted in a sharp
deterioration of the current account, from surpluses to deficits of more than 9 percent of GDP (Annex I,
Figure I and Table 1). The deficits were nearly US$2 billion higher than foreign direct investment, and
led to a 10 percent of GDP increase of the gross and net external debt to 70 and 45 percent of GDP,
respectively.
7.     Realizing that the real demand for financial assets had declined, and that the current account
balance was shifting into a large deficit, the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) tightened monetary policy
significantly in 1993. This resulted in a sharp increase in interest rates on Government securities (Annex
1, Figure 2). The combination of tight money and easy fiscal policies proved highly problematic. The
access of the best enterprises to foreign credits at favorable terms limited the effectiveness of monetary
policy in curbing aggregate demand and improving the current account. Moreover, the increase in real
interest rates generated strong endogenous increases in interest payments and in the budget deficit.
8.     Hungary faced a complex macroeconomic situation in early 1995. The long-awaited recovery of
investment was finally materializing (during 1994 the ratio of fixed investment to GDP increased by I
percent to almost 20 percent), but this recovery was compounding the impact of the expansionary fiscal
policies on the current account. There was an increasing risk of a balance of payments crisis, which
would impel introduction of a very abrupt adjustment, and possibly abort the recovery of investment and
output.



3
Incomplete Reforms in the Enterprise and Banking Sectors
9.     The first years of the transition proved challenging to most Hungarian enterprises because of the
sharp contraction of their traditional CMEA markets, the opening of the Hungarian economy to imports,
and a substantial reduction of production subsidies. Large numbers of enterprises experienced difficulties
in adapting to the more competitive environment, as indicated by a very large increase in gross enterprise
losses, from 0.6 percent of GDP in 1988, to a peak of 14.2 percent of GDP in 1992, the year during
which practically all subsectors reported losses. Losses declined since then, but still amounted to about
7.0 percent of GDP in 1994, indicating that budget constraints had not been sufficiently tightened, and
that many inefficient enterprises remained.
10.    The slow response of enterprises to the more competitive environment was at least partly due to
slow pace of privatization of State-owned enterprises. Between 1990 and mid-1995, privatization and
management of State-owned enterprises were the responsibility of a number of State Asset Management
Agencies (SAMAs), including principally the State Property Agency (AVU), the State Holding Company
(AVRt), and the line ministries. Total divestitures of AVU and AVRt between 1990 and mid-1995
amounted to only 35 percent of initial State equity holdings, because of the policy of retaining substantial
State ownership in the large energy and infrastructure enterprises and because of the statutory limits on
such privatizations.'
11.    The persistence of large losses was also partly due to the absence of an efficient mechanism for
loss resolution. A tough bankruptcy law took effect on January 1, 1992, and was amended in September
1993 to remedy deficiencies noted in the first 18 months of practice. However, the bankruptcy and
liquidation framework was not fully effective, especially in the resolution of large enterprises, and required
improvement in the incentives for firms to file for bankruptcy, for banks and other creditors to file for
liquidation, and for liquidators to speed up the completion of liquidation procedures. A debtor conciliation
scheme, which aimed at achieving out-of-court resolution of enterprise debts to banks and State creditors
but was not appropriately designed and restricted to a limited set of enterprises, contributed to softening
the budget constraint. The Government terminated this scheme in June 1995.
12.   In the banking sector the reforms were also largely unfinished. After a series of recapitalizations
in 1991 and 1992, the Government concluded in mid-1993 that eight banks, including the Hungarian
Credit Bank (MHB), Commercial and Credit Bank (K&H), and Budapest Bank, were still technically
insolvent, and that their financial situation was deteriorating further. Immediate action on the insolvent
banks appeared to be warranted, because their negative cash flows posed the risk of a liquidity crisis. In
addition, the Government viewed solvency as crucial to maintaining public confidence in the banking
system. As a result, it executed a plan to recapitalize these banks, first to a 0 percent Capital Adequacy
Ratio (CAR) in December 1993, and additionally to an 8 percent CAR in December 1994. The capital
injection was effected through the issue of 20-year bonds amounting to HUF 165 billion, raising the total
stock of recapitalization bonds to around HUF 330 billion, or more than 7 percent of 1994 GDP. MHB
and K&H received the largest share of these bonds, because more than 50 percent of their assets were
estimated to be non-performing.
I      AVU had divested roughly 75 percent of its initial holdings by mid-1995, but AVRt (which held 170 large
enterprises in the areas of energy, infrastructure, and industry) had divested only 9 percent of its initial holdings by
the same date.



4
13.   Despite this substantial financial support, the Government's ability to reform the banks was
seriously impaired by weak governance (both by the State owners and at the bank level), and by the
fragmentation and deficiency of the supervisory and regulatory framework. The regulatory framework
involved a Bank Supervisory Committee responsible for regulation and enforcement, and a State Banking
Supervision (SBS) responsible for supervision. This structure, along with parallel NBH bank supervisory
activities, severely limited prospects of creating a strong bank supervision, and dispersed the scarce
supervisory skills existing in the country. Therefore, a series of bank recapitalizations were implemented
at great cost to the budget, but without the governance and regulatory framework essential to impel the
banks to increase efficiency and deal more aggressively with troubled debtors. Loss-making enterprises
continued to benefit from an automatic source of finance through the accrual of interest on their loans,
as well as through transfers from asset managers and the build-up of tax arrears (see Annex II).
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
14.   The Government's March 1995 stabilization package aimed at forestalling a pending crisis by
reducing macroeconomic disequilibria and preparing the stage for more fundamental reforms. Since that
time, the Government has deepened the stabilization efforts and has continued to address long-standing
structural bottlenecks, aimed at placing Hungary on a sustainable growth path. The IMF Stand-By is
centered on key reforms of the public finances. In parallel, the Bank would support, through the proposed
PSAL, major reforn of the pension and health care financing systems.
15.    At the same time, during the course of preparation of this proposed loan, the Bank has worked
very closely with key members of the Government and the National Bank of Hungary to help prepare a
program to finalize the reforms of the enterprise and banking sectors. This program, which is already
being successfully implemented, will help finalize privatization of the remaining State-owned banks and
enterprises, tighten the budget constraint of enterprises, strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for
banks, and develop a strong bank supervisory capacity. Section II-A below presents the macroeconomic
framework within which the EFSAL program is being implemented. Sections Il-B and C present the
enterprise sector and banking sector reforms to be supported under this loan.
A.    The Macroeconomic Framework
The Government's Medium-Run Program
16.    The macroeconomic framework for Hungary must meet two major objectives. First, it must open
room for a sustained recovery of investment and exports. Second, it must contribute to greater economic
efficiency by allowing an enhanced role for the private sector. The first objective requires a reduction
in the fiscal deficit of 5-6 percent of GDP, relative to the 1994 level. This would open room for a further
increase in fixed investment to around 24 percent of GDP (in order to allow Hungary to sustain growth
rates of 4-5 percent annually), and a further reduction of the current account deficit to the level of foreign
direct investment (in order to prevent further increases in Hungary's net external debt and to decrease the
debt to GDP ratio). The second objective requires that the deficit be decreased primarily through
reductions in the level of expenditures, as opposed to increases in revenues, as the level of revenues (over
54 percent of GDP in 1994) is already too high by any international standard and imposes a heavy tax
burden on the emerging private sector.



5
17.    A first step towards the implementation of such a framework was taken in March 1995, when the
Government announced a stabilization program including an immediate reduction in the fiscal deficit, a
devaluation of the Forint, and a restrictive wage policy. As shown in Annex I, Table 1, the package
reduced the General Government deficit, excluding privatization revenues, from 8.3 percent of GDP in
1994 to around 6.7 percent of GDP in 1995.2 Because of the larger than anticipated inflation (resulting
in good part from the devaluation), the decline in real incomes, and the resulting impact of these factors
on revenue performance, the package also resulted in a significant decline in the ratio of revenues to GDP
(excluding privatization revenues), from about 53.8 percent in 1994 to an estimated 49.2 percent in 1995,
despite increases in some taxes. The ratio of expenditures to GDP declined faster, from around 62.1
percent in 1994 to an estimated 55.9 percent in 1995, as a result of a larger nominal GDP, and the
expenditure cuts included in the package.
18.    The package also included a 9 percent devaluation of the Forint relative to the foreign currency
basket and the institution of a pre-announced crawling peg. To avoid triggering a wage-price spiral and
diluting the initial impact of the devaluation, the Govemment instituted a very restrictive wage policy for
employees in public administration and State-owned enterprises. As a result of this policy, real net
average wages declined by 12 percent in 1995.
19.    The Government continued its efforts to eliminate macroeconomic disequilibria and structural
obstacles to growth with the implementation of the 1996 Central Government budget. As shown in Annex
1, Table 2, the adjustment of the Central Government budget has been the main force driving the reduction
in the General Government deficit (excluding privatization revenues) from 6.7 percent of GDP in 1995
to 4.0 percent of GDP in 1996.3 This fiscal contraction has been achieved through a nominal freeze on
most expenditures, which has reduced the ratio of expenditures to GDP from 55.9 percent in 1995 to 52.2
percent in 1996. This represents a remarkable reduction of almost 10 percent in the ratio of expenditures
to GDP, between 1994 and 1996. Combined with key structural measures in the fiscal area and further
wage restraint, the implementation of the 1996 program has represented a major step towards the
achievement of macroeconomic stability. The Government intends to deepen the stabilization further in
1997, by reducing the deficit (excluding privatization revenues and excluding the net financial flows
2      The package was initially expected to reduce the 1995 deficit to less than 6 percent of GDP. However, on
three occasions (June, September and November 1995), the Constitutional Court ruled that some measures in the
package (both on the revenue and expenditure sides) were unconstitutional. The Government announced several
measures in 1995 designed to offset the adverse impact of the Court's decision on the State budget, but these
measures were only partially successful.
3      During 1996, the budget is expected to receive HUF 292 billion in privatization revenues, the equivalent
of 4.4% of GDP. This amount includes HUF 192 "excess privatization revenues' generated in 1995 (i.e., above and
beyond the HUF 150 billion that had been budgeted for 1995), and HUF 100 billion expected during the year.
Adding these revenues to current tax revenues would imply a budget surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP. However, the
Government is correctly sticking to fiscal targets which exclude privatization revenues, and is using these revenues
to retire public debt (instead of financing larger expenditures).



6
related to the securitization of the valuation account of the NBH)4 to 3 percent of GDP, through further
contraction of expenditures and reforms in the public sector.
20.    The 1995 and 1996 measures have generated some improvements in macroeconomic performance.
The real wage contraction and the fiscal adjustment have led to the previously mentioned reduction in the
current account deficit. Because of the successful privatization of large enterprises in December, the
current account deficit fell below foreign direct investment in 1995, resulting in a decline in Hungary's
net external debt for the first time in many years. The exchange rate and wage anchors have prevented
an acceleration of inflation. After an initial jump to over 28 percent in 1995, CPI inflation is estimated
at about 23-24 percent for 1996. Finally, these improvements were obtained without driving the
Hungarian economy into a recession, although there was a significant slowdown of economic growth as
real GDP grew at a rate of about 1.5 percent during 1995 and about 0.2 percent in 1996. (Annex 1, Figure
I and Table 2).
Medium-Term Outlook and External Financing Requirements
21.    Base Scenario. The base scenario is a scenario of high growth, and has been elaborated on the
assumption that Hungary fully implements its enterprise and bank reforms by end-1997, as well as its
public finance reforms, during the 1997-2000 period. Full implementation of these reforms should create
the incentives and conditions for a sustained recovery of investment and generate significant efficiency
gains. The reforms are thus expected to enable Hungary to comfortably sustain fixed investment at levels
around 24 percent of GDP and growth rates of 4-5 percent annually over the medium term. The ICOR
would be reduced to around 5, reflecting an improvement in efficiency that can comfortably be achieved
with the reforms.
22.    Growth prospects. Even under this scenario, GDP growth performance would be modest in 1997,
due basically to the fiscal contraction and the further (albeit moderate) decline in real net wages, and their
impact on private consumption. Growth would start picking up in 1998, as a result of continuing increases
in exports and investment, and some recovery of private consumption. In 1998, the Government will have
to adjust to the projected fall in privatization revenues. However, the adjustment of the current account
would have been largely achieved by then, consumption and investment would be recovering, and growth
would have acquired momentum. Under these conditions, it will be easier to undertake some additional
fiscal adjustment without disrupting economic activity. Growth would approach a new "steady state" level
by 1999 (Annex I, Table 1).
23.    Government Operations. The base scenario assumes a significant adjustment of the Government
deficit, as well as significant reduction in the levels of both revenues and expenditures relative to GDP.
The envisaged reduction in the fiscal deficit (excluding privatization revenues) from 6.7 percent of GDP
4      Beginning in 1997, the budget of the Central Government will include interest payments on bonds issued
to cover the accumulated exchange rate losses of the NBH. This increase in expenditures will be somewhat offset
by an increase in the transfer of profits from the NBH to the Central Government. The net effect of these financial
flows will increase the deficit by about 1.7 percent of GDP.



7
in 1995 to 3 percent of GDP in 19975 is expected to drive the projected improvement of the current
account during the same period (Annex I, Table 2). The General Government deficit is projected to
remain around 3 percent of GDP during the rest of the decade, a deficit which is consistent with a low
rate of inflation and a gradual decline in the ratio of public debt to GDP.
24.   Investment, Consumption, and Savings. The investment recovery is expected to be sustained,
resulting in an investment ratio of 24 percent of GDP. These projections are justified by the wave of
modernization investments which is expected to follow the recent large privatizations, the retrenchment
of the public sector, and the improvements in incentives and financing generated by the prospects for EU
membership. This increase would arise mostly from the private sector, as public investment is projected
to increase to 4-5 percent of GDP. Overall consumption is expected to decline slightly in 1997 as a result
of a continued decline in public consumption, but private consumption would start recovering. Private
savings ratios are expected to increase during 1997-99, due to endogenous increases in household savings
associated with GDP growth.
25.   Exports and Imports. The recovery in Western Europe and the improvement in competitiveness
led to a good export performance in 1995. Export growth slowed down in 1996 but is expected to remain
at around 8 percent in 1997. In subsequent years, export growth would remain above GDP growth levels,
resulting in an increase in the ratio of exports to GDP to 40 percent by the end of the decade. Import
growth rates have slowed down in 1995-96, as a result of the temporary 8 percent import surcharge, the
contraction of consumption and the slow GDP growth. However, imports are projected to start recovering
in 1997 and to grow subsequently at rates slightly above GDP, following the removal of the temporary
import surcharge and the strengthening of commercial ties with the European Union.
26.    The CurrentAccount, Foreign Direct Investment, and Financing Requirements. As a result of the
large scale privatizations and the sizeable fiscal adjustment, the current account deficit fell below foreign
direct investment in 1995 (Annex I, Table 2). This trend continued in 1996 and is likely to continue in
1997, since the continued fiscal adjustment is expected to drive the current account deficit further down
to about US$1.7 billion. This is slightly below the level of FDI expected to prevail during the rest of the
decade (Annex I, Table 2). These projected levels of FDI are somewhat higher than the levels of
greenfield foreign investment that prevailed in 1991-95 (US$1.1- 1.3 billion), but are justified by the wave
of modernization investments which are likely to follow the large privatizations of 1995 and 1996.
27.    Despite the projected decline in current account deficits, Hungary will still have large financing
requirements in the medium-term, because of large expected amortization payments (Annex I, Table 3).
Under the base case scenario, FDI is expected to cover about 30 percent of Hungary's financing needs
during the 1997-99 period. This will maintain the requirement for new flows of debt finance at around
US$4.4 billion during this period. Financial support from official creditors would amount to US$650
million, reducing the necessary recourse to new private sources (bonds and loans) to around US$3.8
billion, which is smaller than the amounts borrowed in 1993-1995. Hungary should have little difficultly
in tapping private sources of finance, since, by the end of 1997, the adjustment would have been largely
completed, and the current account deficit would have been reduced to moderate levels, thus strengthening
Hungary's creditworthiness and its ability to borrow in private international markets.
5      Again, excluding the net financial flows related to the securitization of the valuation account of the NBH.



8
28.    Downside Scenario. The base growth scenario stands a reasonable chance of realization, given
the Government's initiatives in 1995 and 1996, and Hungary's objective to join the European Union.
However, alternative scenarios in which reforms are only partly implemented can also be envisaged. One
particular scenario that deserves consideration involves non-implementation of deeper fiscal reforms in
1997, due to serious challenges to the Government's program by the Constitutional Court and other
segments of society. Fiscal deficits would remain significantly above 4 percent of GDP, and the size of
the Government would remain large (with the ratios of revenues and expenditures to GDP close to the
1996 levels). This scenario implies a weaker growth performance, not only because the ratio of fixed
investment to GDP remains at a lower level (around 20-21 percent of GDP), but also because of smaller
productivity gains. The current account deficit would remain above FDI. Hungary's external situation
would remain problematic, as the maintenance of debt indicators at high levels would imply greater
vulnerability of the balance of payments to adverse external shocks, as well as sudden changes in the
perception of foreign creditors.
B.    Enterprise Sector Reform
Privatization
29.    Privatization framework. In its economic policy statement following the last elections, the new
Hungarian Government expressed its intention to accelerate the privatization effort and to divest the bulk
of remaining State shareholdings within three years. To this end, the Government prepared a new
privatization law which was adopted by Parliament in May and became effective on June 17, 1995. The
new law provides for a major broadening of the privatization base, through radical contraction of the
previously mandated minimum State shareholdings in specified enterprises. It requires that majority State-
ownership be maintained in a relatively small number of enterprises including, inter alia, the railways,
the postal service and the national parks.
30.    The new law also provides for privatization to be carried out by a new agency-APVRt -which
consolidates the functions and resources of AVU and AVRt. APVRt was established on June 17, 1995,
by Government decree. Since then, the APVRt management and supervisory boards have been constituted
and its statutes have been approved by the Government. Given that APVRt is the legal successor of
AVRt, it is not considered a new agency and does not have an opening balance-sheet. In order to provide
a benchmark against which to measure future progress in privatization, APVRt has submitted to the Bank
specially prepared financial statements including its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets and
liabilities at the outset of its operations and reflecting the share transfers mandated by the privatization
law.
31.    By increasing by about HUF 475 billion the amount of State equity holdings that can be
privatized, the new law enables divestiture by APVRt of about HUF 1.3 trillion6 (or about 80 percent of
6      At its institution, APVRt held a majority interest in 171 large and 259 small and medium enterprises, and
a minority interest in 145 large and 176 small and medium enterprises. The value of its initial equity holdings in
these segments was: HUF 1,227 billion, HUF 40 billion, HUF 356 billion, and HUF 7 billion, respectively. It also
held about HUF 162 billion in 77 large enterprises and 513 small and medium enterprises undergoing liquidation.
Small and medium enterprises are enterprises with less than 500 employees and less than HUF 600 million in total
equity. (see Annex V).



9
the approximately HUF 1.6 trillion of State equity in enterprises held by APVRt) (see Annex V). The
new privatization law sets out specific divestiture rules for different segments of APVRt's holdings. Most
of the small and medium enterprises will be privatized through a simplified privatization program in two
rounds.7 Large enterprises will be divested through tendering procedures. For all enterprises in which
it holds minority shareholdings, APVRt will offer its shares either in privatization portfolio packages for
sale through tendering procedures, or individually either to their current private owners or to the enterprise
itself for buy back. All remaining shares will be divested through auctions or public tenders.
32.    On September 27, 1995, APVRt's board of directors approved the rules for privatization tenders
and auctions which have since been applied by APVRt. The Government approved these rules for tenders
and auctions in April, 1996. Except for two instances proscribed by the 1995 Privatization Law and the
Pre-Privatization Act of 1990, these rules require only reference and not floor prices. The two exceptions
relate to the first stage of simplified privatization and the sale of spun-off assets, for which floor prices
do not apply in subsequent rounds. The Government has agreed that these rules will not be changed
without prior Bank agreement.
33.    APVRt has adopted a policy of promoting effective governance of enterprises by their private
majority shareholders. APVRt's 1995-1997 business plan includes a commitment to focus the exercise of
State ownership rights prior to privatization mainly on large enterprises with strategic importance. APVRt
is currently represented on the boards of only 10 percent of the enterprises in which it holds minority
shares. In accordance with the provisions of the Company Law, APVRt will limit the exercise of its voting
rights, in enterprises in which it holds a minority interest, to a number of predefined instances where
decisions are to be made on setting up or amending the statutes; increasing or reducing the share capital;
changing the class of shares or changing the rights attached to the various classes of shares; and mergers,
spin-offs, and dissolution or winding up of the enterprises.
34.    Privatization plans. APVRt's overall 1995-1997 privatization program was adopted on September
19, 1996, and targets divestiture of at least HUF 700 billion in State equity shareholdings by end 1997V8
The program targets divestiture to a minority position in all APVRt's initial majority equity holdings in
enterprises by the end of this three year period, except as specified in the privatization law. The program
targets divestiture of all APVRt's initial minority holdings in small and medium enterprises by end 1996
(except as otherwise specified in the privatization law), and divestiture of at least 50 percent of APVRt's
initial minority holdings in large enterprises by end 1997.9
7      In the first of these rounds, only cash bids are accepted througlh a simple public tendering procedure; this
is followed by a second round open to non-cash bidding including E-loans, installment payments, leasing,
compensation notes, and employee buy-outs.
8      In addition to the program, APVRt will attempt to divest about HUF 300 billion of equity holdings in MVM
(the Hungarian Power Company) and other enterprises.
9      These targets exclude any transfers to the Social Security Funds, other State Asset Management Agencies,
and local governments.



10
APVRt Overall Divestiture Targets"
Privatization Program and Completed Divestitures      Completed Divestitures
By Second Tranche Release
Total Divestitures                                    Total Divestitures
Divestiture of at least HUF 700 billion in State      Divestiture of a cumulative HUF 550 billion in State
equity shareholding by end-1997                       equity completed
Initial Majority Holdings                             Initial Majority Holdings
Divestiture to a minority position in all categories  Divestiture according to agreed plan for large
by end-1997 (except as otherwise specified in the     enterprises (see para. 39)
privatization law)
Divestiture to a minority position completed for
Divestiture of at least HUF 350 billion completed     small and medium enterprises (unless otherwise
(see para. 35)                                        specified in the privatization law)
Initial Minority Holdings                             Initial Minority Holdings
Small and Medium Enterprises                          Small and Medium Enterprises
Divestiture of all shares by end-1996 (except as      Divestiture of all shares completed
otherwise specified in the privatization law)
Large Enterprises                                     Large Enterprises
Divestiture of at least 50 percent of shares by end-  Divestiture of at least 25 percent of shares
1997                                                  completed (excluding power generation enterprises)
" These targets exclude any transfers to the Social Securities Funds, other SAMAs, or Municipalities.
35.    Divestitures to Date.   Adoption of the privatization  law  set the stage for acceleration of
privatization in the last quarter of 1995 and a breakthrough in the privatization of the utility sector. In
the final months of 1995, APVRt completed divestitures of nearly HUF 400 billion in State shareholdings.
These divestitures involved primarily the sale of large "blue-chip" enterprises in the energy and
infrastructure sectors to strategic and financial investors. They included divestiture to strategic investors
of a majority (a 50 percent plus I share) of each of the five regional gas distribution companies, about
47 percent of each of the six electricity distribution companies, a minority share (38 percent and 48.5
percent) in two  non-nuclear power generation  enterprises, and  an  additional 37  percent of the
telecommunications company (MATAV), which raised private ownership in MATAV to 67 percent. They
also included divestiture of 29 percent of the Hungarian Oil Company (MOL) to financial investors.
APVRt received HUF 437 billion in cash revenues from  the 1995 privatization program. This represent
more than two thirds of the cash revenues that can be expected from its 1995-97 privatization program.10
36.     The energy sector privatizations were facilitated by new gas supply and electricity laws, adopted
by Parliament in April 1994. In January 1995, the Govemnment implemented the first price increases
required for the initiation of privatization." During 1995 and 1996, the Government issued new decrees
10      This takes into account the Government commitment to swap around HUF 100 billion in State assets for
compensation coupons by end 1997, the expected sales of minority shares of the large companies to employees, the
expected liquidations of non-viable companies, and the planned transfers to the social security funds and
municipalities.
I I     Electricity and gas prices were increased by 31 percent and 21 percent respectively, of which 65 percent
and 53 percent for households.



I1
on gas and electricity prices which stipulated further price increases through October 1, 1996.12 These
decrees also define the gas and electricity pricing fornulas which will be used to guide further price
adjustments over the 1997-2000 period. The gas decree was included in the tender documents issued for
the privatization of MOL and the gas distribution enterprises. Similarly, the decree on power prices was
included in the privatization tenders for the power sector enterprises.
37.    During 1996, APVRt privatized 7 large enterprises in industry and tourism.13 Currently, a
significant portion of APVRt's remaining shares in the gas distribution companies, the electricity
distribution enterprises, and MATAV are being transferred to municipalities, offered to employees, or
swapped for compensation notes.14 Significant steps are being taken to prepare MVM for privatization. 5
The privatization law allows divestiture of State shares in MVM down to a minimum of 50 percent plus
I share, and MOL and MATAV down to a minimum level of 25 percent plus I share. It also allows full
divestiture of the State shareholding in the gas distribution companies and in the power generation and
distribution companies, provided the State retains a "golden share".'6
12     The decrees stipulated 8 percent increases in both gas and power prices in September 1995, and 18 percent
and 25 percent increases in gas and power prices in March 1996, respectively. Further increases initially scheduled
to take place on October 1,1996, were postponed until January 1, 1997. As of this date, the Govemment raised
tariffs from generators to MVM by about 18 percent, from MVM to distributors by 18.5 percent, and from
distributors to retail customers by about 25 percent. The Government considers that these tariff increases will allow
privatized energy enterprises to earn a return of 8 percent on proportional equity (i.e. the equity corresponding to
the fixed assets used to produce electricity). Retail tariffs are now about US$0.10/kWh, or close to Western
European levels. Establishment of a satisfactory financial framework for MVM is to be pursued under the proposed
Quicic Start Gas Turbine Project.
13     These include Borsodchem, PVK, Taurus, MGM, BB-Hungarovin, and the Forum and Gallert hotels.
14     In the case of the gas companies, 40 percent are to be transferred to municipalities and 10 percent offered
to employees. In the case of the electricity distribution enterprise, 25 percent are to be transferred to municipalities,
10 percent offered to employees, and 10 percent swapped for compensation notes; private investors have a call
option on remaining shares that can be exercised by end-1997.- In the case of MATAV, APVRt will retain a 25
percent plus I share and will split the remaining 8 percent between sales to employees and transfers to Municipalities
and the Social Security Funds.
15     MVM controls 98 percent of the main grid and now has the Paks nuclear power plant and OVIT (a
company which manages operational and maintenance of the network) as subsidiaries. The Government is in the
process of deciding whether to try to sell MVM separately or together with Paks. The separation of Paks and/or the
Main Grid from MVM would require a significant amount of planning and time to implement. Therefore, the
privatization of MVM will probably not take place before end-1997.
16     The rights attached to these shares are clearly stated in the tender documents and allow  the State to
intervene only in decisions involving changes of statutes or the main activities; capital reduction; merger, split,
winding up or transformation of an enterprise; issue of new classes of shares or changes in the rights of the existing
shares. They do not bestow rights on the Government to intervene in the operations of the companies.



12
38.   In addition to the large privatizations, APVRt privatized more than 200 other enterprises by end-
1996. As a result of its overall privatization effort, APVRt reduced its initial enterprise portfolio by 60
percent by the end of the year.
39.    Future privatization. Divestiture of a cumulative HUF 550 billion in State equity, excluding
transfers to the Social Security Funds, other State Asset Management Agencies, and municipalities is a
condition of second tranche release. This will include total divestiture of all APVRt's initial minority
holdings in small and medium enterprises (except as otherwise specified in the privatization law),
divestiture of at least a 25 percent share of APVRt's total initial minority holdings in large enterprises
(excluding power generation enterprises), divestiture to a minority position of all AP VRt 's other holdings
in small and medium enterprises (unless otherwise specified in the privatization law), privatization of
majority ownership in two electricity distribution enterprises, divestiture of strategic stakes (25 percent
plus I share) in an additional 2 non-nuclear power generation enterprises, and divestiture of the State
shareholding in MOL to a minority position.
Reduction of Enterprise Losses
40.    Privatization should ideally precede enterprise restructuring, as private owners are the agents most
likely to be guided by the right incentives in such undertakings. Vigorous privatization of enterprises and
banks should, therefore, be the primary vehicle for restructuring the enterprise sector and stemming
enterprise losses. Nonetheless, the curtailment of losses will also require complementary efforts in at least
two major areas. First, efforts must be made to reduce losses in the State enterprises before their
privatization. Second, the systemic mechanisms for accelerating debt resolution for viable enterprises and
liquidation of non-viable enterprises (both in the public and private sectors) must be strengthened.
41.    The best way to curtail the losses of State-owned enterprises is to submit them to a tight budget
constraint. In this regard, it is a positive development that the 1995 privatization law favors privatization
over direct restructuring by the State asset managers, and that banks and other creditors are increasingly
reluctant to absorb defaults on payment obligations. However, APVRt may be subject to pressures to
utilize part of its substantial privatization revenues in restructuring of doubtful quality. To prevent this
possibility the Government has established, in accordance with the privatization law, a clear policy
mandating the transfer of APVRt privatization revenues to the budget. The revenues to be transferred will
be net of the agency's operating costs, direct privatization expenditures, the amounts needed to service
inherited financial obligations including those from AVU and AVRt, and a limited amount of funding to
be used by APVRt to support a restricted number of enterprises exclusively for downsizing or preparation
for privatization. This support will be limited to 0.3 percent of GDP on average during the 1995-1997
period and comprises net new lending, payments on guarantees, equity infusions, and any other type of
financial support. Only payments on guarantees related to the conclusion of privatization deals are
excluded, as these are part of the direct costs of privatization. Access of enterprises to these resources
must be recommended by the board of APVRt and, in at least 80 percent of the total amount, approved
by the Government. Expenditures subject to the cap amounted to 0.2 percent of GDP in 1995 and rose
to 0.4 percent in 1996, in order to cover expenditures on Borsod steel rehabilitation deferred from 1995.
The 1996 State budget and the 1995-1997 APVRt business plan exclude new borrowings by APVRt.
Transfer ofAP VRt 's privatization revenues to the Budget in accordance with the above policy, compliance
with the 0.4 percent of GDP cap in 1996 on netflow of AP VRt support to enterprises, adoption of the 0.3
percent of GDP cap on net flow of AP VRt support to enterprises in 1997, and continued compliance with
the policy of no further borrowings by AP VRt are conditions of second tranche release.



13
42.    To avoid undermining the stricter control on financial support to enterprises by APVRt by more
generous support to enterprises from the State budget, the Government is continuing to implement the
strict subsidy policy that was introduced in the late 1980s. This policy led to a reduction in producer
subsidies (including investment subsidies and expenditures with guarantees) and in total subsidies from
the State budget from 4.6 percent and 12 percent of GDP in 1989, respectively, to 1.9 percent and 3.4
percent of GDP in 1995. These reduced subsidies are today mostly allocated to agriculture and to MAV
(the Hungarian railways). Producer subsidies to other sectors of the Hungarian economy have been very
restricted and amounted to 0.5 percent of GDP in 1995. Within the 1996 State budget, the Government
constrained producer subsidies, expenditures with guarantees, and all other forms of financial support to
enterprises outside the agriculture and railways sectors to 0.4 percent of GDP, and reduced the annual cap
on new State guarantees on loans to enterprises from 3 percent of total State budget expenditures in 1995
to 2 percent of total State budget expenditures in 1996. Compliance with these caps and establishment of
the same caps in the 1997 State budget are conditions of second tranche release.
Legal Frameworkfor Debt Collection
43.    Progress in restructuring enterprises will depend not only on rapid privatization and tighter budget
constraints, but also on improving the efficiency of the mechanisms for debt and loss resolution.
Hungary's existing legislation is one of the most modem and appropriate bankruptcy and liquidation
frameworks in Central and Eastern Europe. Even so, specific modifications to the current law can
enhance the efficiency of the bankruptcy and liquidation process and augment the incentives for bank
creditors to aggressively pursue debt collection.
44.    An amendment of the Bankruptcy Code has recently been adopted by the Government and has
been submitted for Parliamentary approval. The amendment has important provisions aimed at improving
the efficiency of insolvency proceedings, including: (i) an increase to 30 days of the time allowed for
preparation of decisions by the creditors for granting moratoria on debt service payments by enterprises,
in the case of bankruptcy proceedings, in order to allow adequate time for creditors to familiarize
themselves with the overall financial situation of the enterprise and for debtors to prepare reorganization
strategies; (ii) a requirement that continuation of the operations of the debtor be subject to creditor
approval, in the case of liquidation proceedings; (iii) a requirement to auction all assets in liquidation
proceedings; (iv) a regulation of the level and structure of the liquidator fees from ongoing business
activities; and (v) a requirement for liquidators to provide quarterly reports on the cost of liquidation. The
provisions of this amendment will be made applicable to all ongoing bankruptcy and liquidation
procedures. Adoption by Parliament of this amendment of the bankruptcy law is a condition of second
tranche release.
45.   In April 1996, Parliament enacted an amendment to the Civil Code which completely re-regulates
liens and mortgages. These new rules have been in force since May 1996 and generally enable legal
entities and unincorporated economic associations to create liens on the whole or certain parts of their
property. Pursuant to this amendment, this Code now establishes a harmonized and unified framework
for mortgages on movables (pledges) and provides for the creation of a registry of such pledges. This is
critical for strengthening the framework for collateral and for increasing the speed and reducing the cost
of foreclosures.



14
C.    Banking Sector Reform
46.    The Government has adopted a policy targeting privatization of most State-owned banks by end-
1997.  As a basis for implementing these privatizations, Parliament eliminated, through the 1995
privatization law, the previously mandated minimum long-term State shareholdings in all banks, except
for OTP (the national savings bank) for which the mandated minimum was reduced from 50 percent to
25 percent plus I share, and two specialized banks (EXIMBANK and MFB) which will remain 100
percent state owned (paragraph 64).
47.    Privatization to date. In mid-1995, the transfer to private owners of majority control in OTP, the
largest bank in Hungary (about 30 percent of bank assets), was completed.17 In June 1995, 18.8 percent
of OTP's share capital was successfully sold to financial investors through private placements. This was
followed in July 1995 by sale of 8.4 percent of OTP's share capital through public offerings, and 5.0
percent to management and employees. These sales have reduced the Central Government's direct
participation in OTP's share capital to 27 percent, and raised the total voting shares held by private owners
to about 51 percent.18
48.    In December 1995, following negotiations with a number of potential investors, Budapest Bank
(about 6 percent of bank assets) was successfully privatized. In this transaction, 27.5 percent of the bank's
capital was sold to GE Capital Services, which will take over management of the bank. An additional
32.5 percent of the bank's capital was sold to EBRD. The State retains a direct holding of 22.8 percent
of the bank's capital. Moreover, in 1995, following a significant increase in capital, Postabank, a majority
privately owned joint venture bank, became the third largest bank in Hungary (about 8 percent of bank
assets). 19
49.    In May 1996, MKB (the Foreign Trade Bank - about 9 percent of bank assets) was fully privatized
following a partial privatization in 1994. About 50.8 percent of the bank's shares are now held by
Bayerishe Landesbank, 16.7 percent by EBRD, 15.7 percent by other foreign owners, and the remainder
by domestic private investors and by the bank itself.
50.    In November 1996, the Government accepted ABN Amro's bid for purchase of about 90 percent
of the shares of MHB (about 7 percent of bank assets). This purchase has since been completed and has
17     Hungary has six large banks: OTP, Postabank, MKB, Budapest Bank, MHB, and K&H (Annex II). All
percentages of bank assets cited reflect end-1995 data.
,s     About 22.0 percent of the remaining shares are held by the Social Security and Health Funds and the
municipalities, and 2.8 percent share by OTP. In addition, OTP management has a call option on the shares currently
held by OTP, which do not have voting rights.
19    In the third quarter of 1995, Postabank's capital was increased from HUF 6.5 billion to HUF 16.5 billion
through share issues. Currently private investors hold about 70 percent of Postabank's share capital, including 18.3
percent by foreign investors. Direct and indirect State owners hold about 30 percent.



15
increased the share of bank assets controlled by the private sector to over 85 percent.20 This includes
about 25 small and medium foreign and joint-venture banks in the country (about 25 percent of bank
assets). After completion of MHB's privatization, only one large bank, K&H (about 7 percent of bank
assets) and several small banks (about 9 percent of bank assets) remain to be privatized (Annex 11).
51.    Pre-privatization Measures. A major effort has been made over the last two years to prepare
MHB and K&H for privatization as part of the program supported under the proposed loan. Since early-
1995, MHB and K&H have been implementing pre-privatization programs, tailored to the situation of each
bank. These programs included: (i) establishment for MHB of a core profitable bank, inter alia, through
transfer of all non-bankable clients, problematic assets and associated liabilities into a separate work-out
entity without financial recourse to the core bank; (ii) improvement in effectiveness of boards and
management and adoption of new rules specifying supervisory and management board responsibilities,
sanctions and incentives; (iii) adoption of cost reduction programs including a cutback of at least 15
percent of current staff; (iv) adoption of stringent risk minimization policies which prohibit lending to
transferred clients, regulate lending to classified clients, and limit expansion of new activities, branches,
subsidiaries and investments; (v) adoption of a program for strengthening management information
systems, credit risk and treasury risk management, loan review, and internal and external audit; and (vi)
adoption of sound capital and liquidity plans, demonstrating achievement of a sustainable financial
viability.
52.    As part of its pre-privatization program, MHB separated itself into a "good-bank bad-bank", in
order to preserve a franchise value which was being rapidly eroded by continuing substantial operational
losses. Immediately following their appointment in early 1995, the new MHB management started to take
serious measures to stem the bank's losses, and to elaborate the main elements of the required separation
of good and bad assets. To this end, MHB spun off some HUF 82 billion of assets (HUF 16.8 billion of
book value, net of provisions) into a subsidiary ("Risk Kft"). The remaining "good bank" was left with
assets of HUF 250 billion including a loan portfolio of about HUF 70 billion, concentrated mainly in its
core commercial banking function. In order to proceed with this separation, the Government extended
a guarantee on approximately HUF 11 billion of ten-month Risk Kft bonds held by MHB. Risk Kft was
effectively established without financial recourse to the core MHB. "Firewalls" were established to
separate personnel, to prevent future transfers of assets, and to avoid any lending by MHB to Risk Kft
customers.
53.    The results of Risk Kft's asset sales have been very successful and Risk Kft is currently being
wound up. About 99 percent of the troubled assets transferred to Risk Kft were resolved by end-1996,
resulting in recoveries of approximately three quarters of the net value of the assets and in limiting the
Government's expenditure to HUF 2.6 billion. The resulting increased liquidity permitted MHB to begin
to stabilize its situation and preserve its relationship with core borrowers.
54.   In parallel with the establishment of Risk Kft, the management of MHB made significant progress
on all other major elements of the pre-privatization program. Reductions in staffing levels have exceeded
1100, and a further 600 positions have been scheduled for elimination as part of the rationalization of
20     About 60 percent of the voting shares in the banks are now held by the private sector. About 40 percent
of the total voting shares are held by foreign investors.



16
operations and of the branch network. All retail functions are being reorganized under a new subsidiary,
Nepbank ("Peoples' Bank").
55.   Following the Government's Decision of August 30, 1996 on the bank's privatization, MHB hired
privatization advisors, with financial support from EU-PHARE. The tender invitation to potential
investors was issued in September 1996. Bids were received in October from 2 reputable foreign banks.
In its winning bid, ABN Amro offered US$89 million for about 90 percent of the bank's shares and
committed to increase the banks capital by at least US$100 million within a year of conclusion of the
privatization transaction.
56.   K&H has consolidated assets of about HUF 300 billion, with loans and branches primarily
concentrated in the agricultural and infrastructure sectors. Together with Ibusz Bank, a wholly-owned
subsidiary which was merged into K&H on January 1, 1996, the bank has about 150 branches throughout
Hungary. K&H has resolved more than half of its troubled credit portfolio (a reduction in nominal value
from HUF 45 billion to HUF 22 billion). The remaining troubled loans are provisioned at aggregate levels
of greater than 60 percent. Given this accomplishment, and the fact that K&H has had for the past several
years a separate subsidiary (Kvantum Bank) to hold and resolve troubled assets, the strict separation of
a "good bank" and "bad bank" was not necessary.
57.   Adversely classified assets at the bank total approximately 10 percent of the loan portfolio and
could result in a substantial future reduction in capital levels. K&H management should continue to
conduct a careful review of the bank's entire loan portfolio and to work swiftly to identify and correct
potentially problematic relationships as soon as possible. Further significant reductions in these troubled
loans must be made to ensure the long term viability of K&H. A major cost reduction program, including
substantial staff reductions, is being implemented to enhance the bank's potential future viability.
Management has already reduced staff levels by more than 600 since its appointment in June 1995 and
anticipated reductions of 1000 in 1996. The number of K&H branches has been reduced (from 170 to
150) and closure of a further 20 branches is underway. The level of fixed assets of the bank is extremely
high, and every effort must be made to free up a portion of this capital for more profitable uses. All these
efforts, as well as a major redevelopment and enhancement of policies and systems, are being integrated
into a re-engineering and reorganization of K&H, which is being undertaken with support from outside
consultants. The Government's Decision on privatization of K&H was issued in August 1996. Since
then, K&H has hired privatization advisors. The Government aims to privatize this bank by end-1997.
58.    Unless privatized, completion by K&H of a thorough review of the quality of risk assets, including
the loan and investment portfolio, other non-operational assets (e.g real estate in subsidiaries), and off-
balance sheet risks; and implementation by the bank of cost reduction programs, including cut back of
at least an additional 15 percent of the staff are conditions of second tranche release of the EFSAL.
Similar previously agreed conditionality relating to MHB no longer applies, since MHB has recently been
privatized. Resolution by Risk Kft of at least 75 percent of its initial assets was a previously agreed
condition of second tranche release of the EFSAL; this target has already been exceeded (Annex IV).



17
59.    The Government evaluated possible alternatives for the least cost resolution of Mezobank and
Agrobank, banks which serve the Hungarian agricultural sector. Agrobank had suffered generally from
developments in the agricultural sector and from the crisis of confidence in the bank caused by alleged
illegalities by its formner owners and managers. Mezobank's deposits and loans were also concentrated
in the agricultural sector and, except for its Budapest operations, the bank had been experiencing declining
market share in its target markets.
60.    As a result of its analysis, the Government concluded that the least cost resolution of the two
banks involves: (i) merger into a combined bank, (ii) a Government guarantee of up to HUF 6 billion to
cover losses on the most troubled portion of the new bank's loan portfolio, and (iii) a Government
contribution of HUF 9 billion of equity to the new bank in the form of consolidation bonds to eliminate
a negative capital of HUF 6 billion and recapitalize the bank to HUF 3 billion. This merger was
implemented on January 3, 1996. The new institution, Mezobank, has assets of approximately HUF 87
billion.
61.    The merger of these banks was the first large combination of banking institutions in Hungary in
decades.  Experience in other market economies suggests that such mergers present a variety of
complicated technical challenges, including integration of information technology systems, credit systems
and deposit record-keeping. In this case, the challenges also include restoration of the profitability of two
formerly unprofitable banks. This task is exacerbated by the new institution's reduced ability to make new
loans and maximize its future revenues, to the extent that there is an imbedded loss which has not been
removed by the capital infusion and the guarantee described above.
62.   In determining the least cost resolution of the two troubled institutions, the Government has made,
highly optimistic assumptions with regard to the projected income of the combined institution and the
price at which this institution could be sold to private investors. There are, however, circumstances under
which the Government's assumptions might be realized. Its decision is therefore understandable.
However, it is now crucial that every effort be made to radically restructure the bank as rapidly as possible
in order to ensure that Government resources are not wasted, and that no further Government support be
provided to this institution.
63.    Mezobank has established a core bank focussing on the development of the bank's core client base
and integration of the formerly separate Mezobank and Agrobank. It has also established a workout
vehicle (Riziko Kft) and has transferred to it targeted non-bankable and problematic assets and associated
liabilities without financial recourse to the core bank. The Government is considering alternative
approaches to privatizing Mezobank. Unless Mezobank is privatized, it will need to: (i) resolve at least
25 percent of the adversely classified assets of the core bank; (ii) resolve at least 35 percent of the assets
of the Mezobank work-out vehicle; (iii) improve effectiveness of board and management and adopt new
rules for the core bank specifying supervisory and management board responsibilities, sanctions, and
incentives; (iv) adopt a cost reduction program including additional staff cutbacks as necessary; (v) adopt
stringent risk minimization policies which prohibit lending to transferred clients, regulate lending to
classified clients of the core bank, and limit expansion of new activities, branches, subsidiaries and
investments; (vi) adopt a program for strengthening management information systems, credit risk and
treasury risk management, loan review, and internal and external audit; and (vii) adopt sound capital and
liquidity plans for the core bank, demonstrating achievement of sustainable financial viability. These are
conditions of second tranche release of the EFSAL.



18
64.    MBFBRt was a special work-out cum investment bank fully-owned by the State (Annex II). The
new banking law (paragraph 70) re-established this bank as a 100 percent State-owned development bank
(MFB) as of January 1, 1997. Nevertheless, the Government plans to privatize MFB's non-development
banking activities through the spin-off of these activities into subsidiaries whose shares will be offered to
potential private investors. In 1996, MBFBRt appointed, with support from EU-PRARE, financial and
privatization advisors to assist in preparing this partial privatization program. Adoption of a satisfactory
privatization plan for MFB 's non-development bank activities is a second tranche release condition of the
EFSAL.
65.    Bank Resolutions to Date.  In late 1994, a drive to privatize 4 smaller State-owned banks
(Iparbank, Dunabank, Konzumbank, and the original Mezobank) was initiated, when the Government hired
two international advisors to prepare these privatizations and identify potential buyers. Unlike the larger
banks which participated in the Bank Consolidation Program, the four smaller banks were not recapitalized
to 8 percent through subordinated loans in December 1994. Consequently, these banks remained in non-
compliance with bank regulations and had a limited period to regularize their situation. By about end-
March 1995, it became apparent that the efforts to privatize these smaller banks would be unsuccessful.
66.    Konzumbank was acquired and recapitalized by MBFBRt in mid-1995. The Government has
determined that liquidation of Iparbank is the least cost resolution of that institution. It has withdrawn
the bank's license and paid off all deposits. The Government has also initiated closure/liquidation of
Dunabank. This has included, inter alia, the carving out and sale of the bank's performing assets (to ING
Bank in March 1996) and the liquidation of the remaining institution.
67.    Bank Privatization and Resolution Policy. In September 1996, the Government submitted to the
Bank a package of decrees and policy statements which define the privatization strategy of the remaining
State-owned banks and include a timetable of actions to be taken through 1997 in privatizing MHB, K&H,
Mezobank, and Takarekbank.  Takarekbank was established as an apex institution for Savings
Cooperatives but retains its own commercial banking activities. The bank's major shareholders are the
State (87.5 percent) and the Savings Cooperatives (10.8 percent). The rest of its shares are owned by
other private shareholders. The Government is also preparing for the privatization of smaller banks such
as Corvin Bank. The Government has committed to abide by the following key principles in concluding
its banking sector reforms: (i) privatization of all viable banks and liquidation of all non-viable banks by
end-1997 (unless otherwise specified in the privatization law) and (ii) refraining from providing any
additional fiscal resources to banks, except for strictly limited support necessary for conclusion of
privatization agreements, or, no more than once per bank, for least cost liquidations/resolutions.21 Abiding
by these key principles and achievement of the Government's targets are conditions of second tranche
release.
21     Given the- potential benefits of transferring ownership of the banks to private investors, the Government
should be able to retain some flexibility in closing such deals. The possibility should therefore be maintained of
utilizing a limited put back of bad loans to the Government (implying a limited purchase of these bad loans through
the budget) or a similar privatization enhancement instrument (such as a limited guarantee on these loans), to provide
the necessary flexibility to complete privatization agreements.



19
Bank Governance
68.   The Government intends to exercise effective governance of the remaining State-owned banks
prior to their privatization, and to liquidate non-viable banks in coordination with the supervisory
authorities. The State exercises its ownership over the banks through the MoF and the APVRt based on
the Asset Management Agreement between the two institutions. The Ministry of Finance has appointed
a Deputy State Secretary in the Ministry to manage the bank resolution and privatization program. The
deputy secretary also manages the staff who represent the Ministry on the board of the banks, and has had
support from two US Treasury advisors. An executive director in APVRt is responsible for bank
governance and privatization and manages the staff who represent the agency on the board of the banks.
The Minister of Finance must approve each bank privatization in consultation with NBH and the
Supervision Agency (paragraph 72).
69.   The governance role has entailed strengthening the banks' management and supervisory boards,
and approval and monitoring of the banks' pre-privatization action programs. This has involved, inter alia,
the setting of performance targets, provision of incentives, exercise of sanctions, and identification and
coordination of the required technical assistance to the banks from the donors. The Government is
committed to continue with these governance arrangements until the completion of implementation of the
bank privatization program. Completion of a satisfactory operational review of these arrangements is a
condition of second tranche release of the EFSAL.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
70.    The Banking Law. A new banking law (Law on Banks and Financial Institutions) was adopted
by the Hungarian Parliament on November 19, 1996 and became effective on January 1, 1997. During
preparation of this loan, the Bank provided special assistance to the authorities for development of the new
banking law.
71.   Given the special fiduciary responsibilities of bank directors and managers vis-a-vis depositors,
the new banking law improves the framework for bank regulation on a consolidated basis, including
definition of acceptable capital adequacy linked to the risk profile of the individual banks, degrees of
capital deficiency, and bank insiders and related parties. The law also improves the framework for bank
governance by bank supervisory and management boards. To this end, the new law builds on the
provisions of the corporate law and defines in detail the role and responsibilities and required
qualifications of executive and non-executive members of the bank management boards. It ensures that
bank management boards have a majority of non-executive directors with the duty and authority to oversee
executive management, and that they institute internal committees for audit and ethics composed
exclusively of non-executive board members. The law also explicitly requires operating management to
develop policies and procedures, risk limits, and reporting and information systems to detect, measure,
limit, and help manage risks. It gives bank boards the power and responsibility to review management
performance based on these measures and to change management when needed.
72.    Another major objective of the new law is to clearly assign the responsibilities and authorities
within the supervisory function. The law assigns the responsibility for issuing prudential regulations to
the Government and the Ministry of Finance, and for prudential supervision to the State Banking and
Capital Market Supervision (the "Supervision Agency") which has been established as a public
administration organization under the Law on State Banking and Capital Market Supervision (the



20
"Companion Law"), which was also adopted by Parliament on November 19, 1996, and became effective
on January 1, 1997. The new Supervision Agency has been formed by the merger of the State Banking
Supervision (SBS) and the State Securities and Exchange Commission.
73.    The president and vice-presidents of the Supervision Agency are appointed, and may be removed,
only by the Prime Minister, based on the joint recommendation of the Minister of Finance and the
President of the National Bank of Hungary. The possible grounds for removal of such officials are listed
in the Law. The president of the Supervision Agency has been vested with full powers for implementing
and enforcing the banking law and regulations and there is no appeal against the president's decisions
except in the courts. Technical management is the responsibility of the two vice-presidents, one for
banking and the other for capital markets. Completion of a satisfactory review of the activities of the
newly established supervisory agency is condition of second tranche release.
74.    The new banking law delineates the enforcement process, and specifies graduated enforcement
measures in line with the gravity of infractions, including strengthened personal sanctions against directors,
managers and auditors aimed at persuading them to follow the prescriptions of the law, banking
regulations and the decisions of the supervisory authority. The banking law defines the degrees of severity
of a bank's problems and bank insolvency, provides a clear and effective mechanism for temporary
intervention of problem banks, and defines the responsibility for managing bank resolutions. In this
regard, the banking law provides a more active role for the National Deposit Insurance Fund (NDIF) in
conducting bank resolution activities, by mandating that NDIF establish a company for this purpose, in
collaboration with the supervisory agency.
75.    Like most other Central European countries, Hungary has opted for the universal banking model.22
While universal banking has many advantages, it exposes banking institutions to a number of incremental
risks and places additional demands on bank management. The new law aims to contain these risks by
ensuring, inter alia, that activities of financial conglomerates are regulated and supervised on a
consolidated basis.
76.    The new law establishes the legal framework for regulation and supervision of the savings
cooperatives.23 In order for the cooperatives to operate efficiently with limited resources, the Government
has determined that they should be coordinated through one organizational structure. In October 1993,
the cooperatives relinquished some of their independence in return for participation in the bank
consolidation program through the then established National Organization Protection Fund of Savings
Cooperatives (OTIVA). Under the new structure, the cooperatives are expected to receive support services
and to be supervised, in part through the Takarekbank. Establishment of the legal framework for
rationalization of the savings cooperatives is a condition of second tranche release.
22     Under the new Law, the banks may broaden the range of their activities by trading State securities. The
Government intends to allow for further broadening of the banks' activities through future amendments to the Law,
permitting enhanced involvement by banks in the capital markets.
23     There are 255 savings cooperatives in Hungary (representing about 5 percent of total bank assets), which
constitute a potentially valuable network for savings mobilization and lending to small enterprises, especially in rural
areas.



21
77.    Regulations. In the last two years, SBS issued regulations covering capital adequacy, loan
classification and liquidity requirements, and has recently aligned regulations which adjust the risk weights
used to determine capital adequacy with Bank of International Settlements (BIS) standards.24 The Ministry
of Finance has modified Decree 181/1991 to introduce mandatory suspension and reversal of income on
adversely classified borrowers.
78.    Adoption of regulations defining the format and contents of the external audit reports for banks,25
the valuation of risk assets, reporting requirements on interest capitalization, reporting and valuation
requirements on investments in securities, acceptability and valuation of collateral, and accounting and
reporting requirements and valuation of debt restructuring by banks and rules defining the standards for
credit and market risk management and appraisal of collateral are conditions of second tranche release.
79.    Supervisory Framework. Throughout preparation of this loan, the Bank and the Government have
had extensive consultations regarding the role, institutional setting and structure of bank supervision. The
supervisory function requires skilled and experienced staff, and strong leadership dedicated to developing
the supervisory capacity to act as needed to ensure the safety and soundness of the banking system. It
also requires a proactive model of supervision encompassing systematic and regular assessment of the
banks' financial condition and the quality of their management. To this end, the supervisory authority
needs to develop a statement of its mission which defines supervisory objectives and strategy, setting out
the manner and methods of supervision: an appropriate supervisory cycle, the mix of supervisory
instruments appropriate for each bank, and a rating mechanism to define priorities.26
80.    During the first six months of 1996, SBS developed a proposed supervisory strategy, examination
program and institutional development plan for bank supervision. However, these documents will need
to be adapted to the provisions of the new banking and companion laws particularly to the envisaged
merger of the banking and securities supervisions. By March 31, 1997 the new supervisory agency will
submit to the Bank for comment the proposed revisions of its proposed supervisory strategy, examination
program, and institutional development plan and will revise and adopt these programs by April 30, 1997.
Satisfactory progress in meeting targets set by the strategy, the examination program and the institutional
development plan including: full scope examination of at least 10 banks, completion of credit examination
methodologies, completion of joint review with the Bank of the skills and experience of the supervisory
staff and continued recruitment of examiners and maintenance of required technical assistance are
conditions of second tranche release.
24     Risk-weights which have been changed include those for off-balance sheet short-tern guarantees, loans to
enterprises supported by mortgages, long-term State bonds and investments.
25     Audit guidelines would specify the scope and coverage of audits and the auditors' reporting responsibilities
to the supervisory authorities, and enhance the independence of auditors from senior management by directing that
their relationships with the banks be conducted through audit committees of non-executive board members.
26     The supervisory cycle should ensure that within a maximum period of between 1 1/2 to 2 years, the
supervision progran for each institution will include (i) a full scope examination; (ii) targeted follow up visits; (iii)
annual review of the coverage, adequacy and conclusions of the external audit program; and (iv) periodic discussions
of financial performance with bank management.



22
81.    To implement these programs the Supervision Agency will improve remuneration levels with a
view to attracting and retaining skilled staff, and incorporate in its development plan a solid program of
training and extzmal technical assistance. Compensation of quality employees has been facilitated by
recent changes in the regulation governing remuneration of public sector employees, which frees 35
percent of the employees of any agency from general salary scale limitations and by adoption of the
companion law which will provide flexibility in compensation of professional supervisory staff.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.    Bank's Assistance Strategy
82.    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Hungary was discussed by the Executive Directors
on June 15, 1995. The Bank's program of support has the broad objectives of helping Hungary maintain
macroeconomic stability and accelerate its growth to facilitate EU accession; strengthening and privatizing
Hungary's financial and enterprise sectors; reforming social policies and strengthening the human resource
base; improving environmental management; and attracting FDI and know-how, especially in the
infrastructure sectors.
83.    The EFSAL will support the Govemment to deepen stabilization efforts and to address long-
standing structural impediments, and thereby place Hungary on a sustainable growth path. The reform
program to be supported under the loan will help finalize privatization of State-owned banks and
enterprises, tighten the budget constraint of enterprises, strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for
the banking sector, and develop a strong bank supervisory capacity.
84.    Since 1992, the main thrust of IFC's investment and advisory activity in Hungary has been to
advise the Govemment on key steps needed to structure privatizations in the telecommunications sector
which served as models for other countries. IFC's current investment focus is to mobilize limited recourse
finance for newly privatized companies, particularly those in the infrastructure and oil and gas sectors;
provide post privatization financing for the Hungarian banks; provide credit lines for small and medium
enterprises; and provide financing for agribusiness and manufacturing companies. IFC's advisory program
will focus on helping to develop the overall policy for privatization of the railways spin-offs and for
arrangement of financing for airport, water, sewerage, and district heating services.
85.    MIGA has six outstanding guarantees in Hungary (some US$40 million) covering projects in the
financial services and manufacturing sectors. At end-1996, MIGA had eight preliminary guarantee
applications under evaluation.
B.    Loan Amount and Borrower
86.    The proposed Bank loan, in the amount of US$225 million, will be made to the Republic of
Hungary, on standard amortization terrn, grace period, and interest rate for fixed rate US Dollar single
currency loans with an expected disbursement of 0-3 years.
C.    Loan Design
87.   The principal objective of the proposed loan is to provide timely and responsive support to
Hungary's efforts to implement effective reform of its enterprise and financial sectors. The loan would



23
provide fast-disbursing funds for balance-of-payments assistance in support of the Government's reform
program. The Government, in cooperation with the Bank and IMF, would aim at maintaining a stable
macroeconomic framework within which essential structural reforms can be implemented, especially those
which would accelerate the privatization of banks and enterprises.
88.   The main elements of the enterprise and financial sector reform program include: (i) an enterprise
privatization program which would target substantial reduction of the holdings of APVRt over the 1995-
1997 period; (ii) a strong program for curtailment and reduction of enterprise losses; (iii) a comprehensive
regulatory development in the banking sector; and (iv) radical improvement in the governance of the banks
in the context of a program of bank privatization aimed at privatizing all remaining State-owned banks
by end-1997.
D.    Lending and Administrative Arrangements
89.   The Government, through the Ministry of Finance, will administer the loan in close coordination
with the National Bank of Hungary.
E.    Disbursements
90.   The Government will open an account in the National Bank of Hungary. Upon notification of
tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of the loan will be deposited by the Bank in this account at the
request of the Government. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible
purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard
negative list), the Bank will require the Government to either (i) return that amount to the account for use
for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will cancel
an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
F.    Accounts and Audits
91.   Although routine audit of the account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to require
such audits.
G.    Monitoring Arrangements
92.   The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Hungary will be responsible for monitoring and
implementation of the program. The Bank will monitor the implementation of the program through
periodic reviews.
H.    Environmental Assessment Requirements
93.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01,
Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in category "U" and does not require an environmental
assessment.



24
1.     Release of Funds and Tranching
94.   It is proposed that the loan be disbursed in two equal tranches of US$112.5 million. The first
tranche will be eligible for disbursement upon effectiveness of the loan. The second tranche will be
eligible for disbursement upon satisfaction of the proposed conditions of its release, as detailed in the
attached Matrix of Key Policy Actions (Annex IV). Loan tranches are expected to be approximately
twelve months apart.
J.     Benefits and Risks
95.    The loan would assist Hungary to finalize its enterprise and banking sector reforms, and
successfully conclude an advanced and critical stage of the transformation of its economy. The loan
would support an accelerated program of enterprise privatization, including the privatization of large
utilities, which  has already achieved unprecedented results and is likely to generate substantial
demonstration effects throughout the region. The loan would also support the rapid curtailment of
enterprise losses and free resources for projects of much higher returns. It would support a program of
privatization of State-owned banks and of regulatory development, designed to preserve financial
discipline, and ensure that Hungary's scarce resources are effectively allocated to the most dynamic
enterprises. The envisaged improvement in financial intermediation is critical to growth performance,
since it will diminish Hungary's reliance on foreign savings to finance development.
96.    The main risk is a weakening of political support for continued implementation of the program,
which would be primarily triggered by strong disagreements within the two coalition parties, or by strong
challenges from the constitutional court.  This could result in less fiscal discipline and a weaker
macroeconomic framework, a slowdown in the privatization of enterprises and banks, or in a less proactive
and independent bank supervision. However, a strong momentum has already been built in pushing
forward the enterprise and banking sector reforms. The privatization program has achieved notable
success and is not likely to stall. And, the new banking law has been adopted and is likely to impel
development of stronger bank supervision and more effective bank governance.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
97.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
February 6, 1997



25
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STATISTICAL TABLES AND FIGURES
Table 1:
Operations of the General Government, 1989-1995
(in percent of GDP)
1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     1995
Revenues                   56.0     54.4      51.9     55.2      54.9     54.6      52.0
Revenues1"                 56.0      54.4     51.9     54.4      54.5     53.8      49.2
Expenditures               57.2      54.0     54.0     60.5      61.5     62.1      55.9
Subsidies                11.4       9.0      7.4      5.5       4.3      4.5       3.5
Transfers                18.2     20.2      20.6     24.0      22.5     22.2      19.1
Interest                  2.3      2.8       3.8      5.9       4.7      8.4       9.0
Other                    25.3     22.0      22.2     25.1      30.0     27.0      24.3
Overall Balance             -1.2      0.4     -2.1     -5.3      -6.6     -7.5      -3.9
Overall balance 1"         -1.2       0.4     -2.1     -6.1      -7.0     -8.3      -6.7
Household Savings           7.9       9.1     14.8     12.5       7.4     10.2       8.3
Current Account Balance    -1.9       0.4      1.2       1.0     -9.0     -9.5      -5.7
1/: Excluding prvatization revenue.
Sources: Ministry of Finance, National Bank of Hungary, and Central Statistical Office



26
FIGURE 1:                                                    ANNEX I
SELECTED MACROECONOMIC VARIABLES, 1988-199 6                                          Pop 2 of 5
REAL GDP AND INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT                                          AVERAGE INFLATION
(INDICES, 1988=100)                                                 (IN % P.A.)
35% -
100 -                                                          30% -
25%-
20% -
8s-                                                           15%-
10% 
5%-
60                                                             0%
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996            1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
|       REAL GDP  I+  N INDUSTRY |CPI -+- PPI I
BALANCE OF THE CONSOLIDATED BUDGET                                     CURRENT ACCOUNT AND FDI
(IN % OF GDP)                                                   (IN % OF GDP)
1%-                                                             12
0%                A                                              0 
-2% -                                                            6 
-3% -                                                            4
-4%                                                              2%
-5% -%-- 
6%-                                                              -2%-
-7%-                                                             -4%-
-8%-                                                             -6%-
-9%-                                                             -8%-
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996                     1988 1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994 1905  1906
proj.                                                           pro
-  WITH PRIVAT. -    WITHOUT PRIVAT.                                  -  CURRENTACCOUNT +    FDI|
RESERVES IN MONTHS OF IMPORTS (GNFS)                              CONVERTIBLE EXPORTS AND IMPORTS
(BOP DATA, IN USS MILLIONS)
9                                                               1 6000
8 
7-
6                                                               12000
5 -4 .                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8000
3-
2 
                                                               4000
O-      .     .     .     .     ,     .     ,     ,     .              1988 1989 1990 1991  1992 1993 1994 1995  1996
1988  1989  1090  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996                                                             p4
|-EXPORTS + IMPORTS|



27
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Table 2 - Main Economic Variables, 1996-2005: Base Scenario
1996     1997     1998     1999     2000      2001     2005
(percentage change)
Real GDP                             0.2      2.0      3.5      4.5       5.0      5.0      5.0
Real GDP per capita                  0.5      2.3      3.9      4.9       5.4      5.4      5.3
Real Private Consumption            -2.2      0.9      3.1      3.5       4.3      4.5      4.4
Real Fixed Investment                3.0      9.5      8.1      7.2       7.0      6.0      6.0
Inflation (GDP deflator)            21.0     17.0     13.5      10.0      8.0      5.5      3.0
(in percent of GDP)
Gross national savings              20.4     21.0     22.2     22.8      23.3     23.8     25.2
Fixed Investment                    20.8     22.3     23.2     23.8      24.3     24.5     25.3
CurrentAccount (US$ mn.)           -1800    -1700    -1683    -1738    -1779    -1765    -1899
Current Account                     -4.1     -3.8     -3.5     -3.4      -3.2     -3.0     -2.3
FDI (US$ mn.)                      2000      1720     1750     1800     1850      1900     2000
Gross External Debt (US$ mn.)     29903    29413    29470    30117    30847    31817    36679
Gross External Debt                 68.9     65.2     61.6      58.6     55.7     53.3     45.3
Net External Debt                   37.3     35.3     33.1      31.8     30.7     28.6     21.5
Foreign Reserves/Imports GNFS        7.7      7.1      6.6       6.1      5.6      5.6      5.5
General Government Balance          -1.1     -3.7     -3.6      -3.2     -2.7     -2.7     -2.5
(excluding privatization revenues)  -4.0   -4.8      -4.2     -3.2     -2.7      -2.7     -2.5
General Government Revenues         51.2     46.2     44.0     42.7      41.2     39.4     37.4
Taxes                             35.8      33.2     32.1     31.1     30.1      29.4     28.3
Direct Taxes                     20.0     18.5     18.1      17.9     17.5     17.0     16.4
Social Security                11.3      10.8      9.6      9.5      9.3       9.0      8.5
Indirect Taxes                   15.8     14.8     14.0      13.3     12.6     12.4     11.9
Non-tax Revenues                  10.7      10.5     10.7     10.4     10.3       9.3      8.4
Capital Revenues                   4.7      2.6       1.2      1.2      0.9       0.7      0.7
Privatization Revenues            2.9      1.1      0.5      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
General Government Expenditures     52.2     49.9     47.6      45.9     44.0     42.1     39.9
Wages & Salaries                   6.8       5.9      5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5
TransferPaymentstoHouseholds      17.6      16.9     16.2     15.7     15.3      14.8     14.5
Interest Payments                  8.5      9.0       8.2      7.1      5.7      4.2       2.6
Other                             19.4      18.1     17.6     17.6     17.5      17.6     17.2
General Government Debt             76.0     70.6     65.5      61.4     57.7     55.3     49.2
World Bank Staff Projections



28
FIGURE 2:                                        ANNEX I
MONEY, CREDIT, AND INTEREST RATES, 1991-96                        Pp4of5
REAL MONETARY AGGREGATES                          NOMINAL AND REAL CREDITS TO
Boo -                                                              ENTERPRISES
750 -                                             g  1
700 -700-
650-
300 -
550-
5W-            .,.,  ,.....,,. .. . ....,,,,.....  1W0
-M2 -+-M3                                       -  NOMINAL +  REAL
NOMINAL INTEREST RATES                     SHARE OF GOVERNMENT IN TOTAL CREDITS
40% -              (in % p.a.)                    65% -
35% -% 60  -
55%-
25%-
20%.                                             50%-
15%                                              45%
1o%
40% .                                   40%
I-TREASURYBILLS +  TIME DEPOSITS   -LOANS
INTERMEDIATION SPREADS                     SHARE OF CREDITS TO ENTERPRISES IN M3
(in %)                       65%
14%-                                               D-
12% -
55%-
10% 3
8%5D-
6% -45%-
4%                                               40%-
2% -35%
4                                                 a E S   _  8 AW|
-  44 LRE BJS -+- OTHERBANKS



29
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Table 3 - External Financing Requirements: Base Scenario
(in US$ million)
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
Requirements                     13070     5927      4412     6390      7244     7398
CurrentAccount Deficit            2480     1800      1700     1683      1738      1779
Amortization Payments             6058     5243      2965     4530      5379     5571
Reserve Build up                  4532    -1116      -253      176       127       47
Financing                        13070     5927      4412     6390      7244     7398
Foreign Direct Investment         4453     2000      1720     1750      1800      1850
Medium- & Long-term
Disbursements                    7131     4337      2580     4515      6061     6308
Official Creditors               559      592       758      720       452      475
o/w IBRD                       188      161       406      457       189      196
Private Creditors               6572     3745      1822     3795      5610     5833
Bonds                         3103     1608       906     1000      2000     2000
Other Private Creditors       3469     2137       916     2795      3610     3833
Othernet "                        1486      -409      113      125      -617      -760
1/: Includes net short-term liabilities, net medium- & long-term assets, net short-term assets and errors & omission
Source: World Bank Projections






31
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
HUNGARY: ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
BACKGROUND: THE ECONOMY AND THE ENTERPRISE
AND BANKING SECTORS, 1990-1994
A.    The Enterprise Sector
Privatization
1.    Hungary began market reforms with substantial changes in the institutional and legal framnework
in the early 1980's, much earlier than other Central European countries. Price and trade liberalization
were initiated in the mid-1980's, a two tier banking system was created in 1987, and a new Company
Law and a Transformation Law were adopted in 1988. Initially, Hungary saw widespread spontaneous
privatization of parts of State-owned enterprises, as profitable assets like workshops and other ancillary
service and trade units were spun off into new limited liability companies. A centrally managed, but
market driven, privatization program was launched in 1990. In 1994 the pace of privatization slowed,
and cumulatively by the end of that year only one third of State assets, mainly in small and medium
enterprises, had been divested.
2.     Between 1990 and mid-1995, privatization and management of the State's shares in State-owned
enterprises were the responsibility of a number of State Asset Management Agencies (SAMAs). The
principal SAMAs were the State Property Agency (AVU), the State Holding Company (AVRt), and the
line ministries. In part to check the perceived abuses of spontaneous privatization, AVU was established
in March 1990 to: (i) supervise and manage the privatization of virtually all State enterprises; and (ii)
exercise ownership on the State's behalf in remaining State holdings. Subsequently in August 1992,
AVRt was established to manage holdings in enterprises in which the State opted to retain partial or full
long-term ownership, and to privatize the remaining shares in these enterprises.
3.     Following transfers of enterprises from AVU to AVRt and other SAMAs, AVU's portfolio
included 1,841 small and medium-sized enterprises accounting for a total value of State equity of about
HUF 1.1 trillion. AVRt's portfolio included 171 enterprises accounting for a total value of State equity
of about HUF 1.5 trillion (Table 2.1). Although it included fewer enterprises, the value of AVRt's
portfolio was larger than AVU's, because it included the largest Hungarian enterprises, most of which
were concentrated in the areas of energy (50 percent of the value of the portfolio), infrastructure,
industry, and finance.
4.     AVU had a reasonable record in privatizing State assets.' Total divestitures by AVU amounted
to HUF 844 billion, or roughly 75 percent of its initial holdings of enterprise equity (Table 2.1). These
divestitures included sales to foreign and domestic investors primarily for cash, but also through E-credits
1     The Government's privatization program has been supported by the Bank through an Enterprise Reform
Loan (ERL, Loan No. 3459-HUN). The program set out a multi-track strategy for privatization which aimed at
achieving substantial privatization of assets in the competitive sectors over a two year period. Privatization by AVU
of at least 12 percent of the assets they held in the competitive sectors was a second tranche release condition of
the ERL. More than 60 percent of the competitive sector's state assets were divested by the two SAMAs by end-
1994.



32
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
(subsidized  credits provided  to                                    Table 2.1
encourage  participation  of the            The Progress of Privatization   Number of  Value of State Equity
population),   installment                                                  Enterprises  (HUF billion)
arrangements,   leasing,                    OwnershipofStateEquity
compensation notes, liquidations             before privatization
(which transferred assets to new             AVU                                1,841               1,098
private owners), and asset sales              AVRt2'                              171               1,477
(initiated   by   enterprises   and           Others
approved by AVU). About HUF                   subtotal                          2,098              2,775
254 billion or 25 percent of its            Divested by AVU as of 12/94
initial holdings in 665 enterprises          liquidation                         523                 322
remained to be privatized at the              100 percent sales                  653                 206
end of 1994.                                 partial sales                        248                147
subtotal                          1,424                676
5.      AVRt was much slower
in privatizing State assets.  By            Total Asset Sales Approved by
AVU  + Equity Reduction as              -                168
end-1994, AVRt had  divested                of 12/94
HUF 153 billion of State equity,
or only 9 percent of its initial            Divested by AVRt. as of
holdings,   primnarily   through            12/94
partial sales of enterprises, and a           liquidation                          13                 15
*   *   ~    ~2   100 percent sales
limited number of liquidations.               partial sales                       23                 138
This  privatization  record  was              subtotal                             36                153
partly due to delays in the start-
up of AVRt's operations. But, it            Total Divested as of 12/94              -                997
was   also   due   to   the                 State Equity Portolio
Government's policy of retaining            managed by AVU and AVRt               823               1,578
long-term  State ownership in a             as of 12/94
wide   range   of   enterprises.            AVU                                   665                 254
Indeed, these statutory minimum             AVRt                                  158               1,324
State holdings implied that AVRt            1/ after transformations and transfers.
could  have  divested  only  36             2/ excludes AVRt shares in 10 financial institutions (HUF 60
percent of its  total holdings.             billion in book value).
Moreover, only HUF 240 billion              3/ equity value as of the date of transfer.
Source: AVU and AVRt.
(in 76 enterprises) or 18 percent
of its holdings could have been divested down to a minority State holding.  Most of the high value,
energy and infrastructure companies were not included in this group.
6.      By the end of 1994, AVU and AVRt and other SAMAs had commercialized nearly the whole of
the State enterprise sector and AVU and AVRt had managed full or partial privatization of about two
thirds of State enterprises.  Nevertheless, in part because of the policy of retaining substantial State
ownership in the large energy and infrastructure enterprises and the statutory limits on such privatizations,
2       These included the partial privatization of MALEV and a ground breaking partial privatization (33 percent
of share capital) of MATAV- one of its major holdings.



33
ANNEX II
Page 3 of I1
total divestitures of AVU and AVRt (of close to US$10 billion) amounted to only 35 percent of initial
State equity holdings.'
7.     Between 1990 and 1994, private capital in incorporated enterprises grew by HUF 1.5 trillion
(around 30 percent of 1994 GDP), of which two thirds was accounted for by new investments and one
third by acquisition of State assets. Foreign direct investment accounted for about 50 percent of the total
increase in private capital. By end-1994, the number of enterprises in the formal segment of the
enterprise sector had increased to nearly 100,000, of which more than 98 percent were private
(accounting for about 50 percent of GDP and employment). Taking into account the informal sector, the
share of the private sector is estimated to have increased to over 60 percent of GDP in 1994.4
Financial Performance of Enterprises
8.     Hungary's past privatization efforts took place during a period of sharp contraction of traditional
markets (resulting from the collapse of CMEA, the war in the former Yugoslavia, and the slow growth
in Western European economies), the opening of the Hungarian economy to imports, and substantial
reduction of production subsidies. The impact of, and the slow adjustment to, these conditions is
indicated by a very large increase in gross enterprise losses, from 0.6 percent of GDP in 1988, to a peak
of 14.2 percent of GDP in 1992 (the year during which practically all subsectors reported losses).
Although losses have declined, gross losses, estimated at 7.2 percent of GDP in 1994 (Table 2.2),
remained unsustainably high.5 Large loss-making enterprises accounted for a significant shares of total
losses and debts of the enterprises in the formal sector.6
3      Five percent of privatization revenues (about HUF 22 billion) were used to cover AVU and AVRt's
operating costs (including fees for consulting and advisory services) and 20 percent (about HUF 86 billion) were
used for cash transfers to enterprises and payments on guarantees. About 38 percent of privatization revenues
(about HUF 160 billion) were used to finance the E-loan program (about HUF 80 billion), and for repurchase of
compensation notes (about HUF 85 billion). The remainder, about 35 percent of privatization revenues (about HUF
150 billion) was transferred to the budget and other funds.
4      The formal segment of the sector consists of untransformed State enterprises, limited liability companies,
joint stock companies, and cooperatives and all other enterprises with legal status and double entry bookkeeping not
involved in social services. The informal segment included 900,000 registered individual entrepreneurs and
unincorporated entities. By end-1995, the private sector is estimated to have increased to 60 percent of GDP and
employment and, with the informal sector taken into account, over 70 percent of GDP.
5      These loss figures may be somewhat overstated, because of enterprises efforts to evade high taxes.
Overstatement of losses appears to have been achieved through a number of accounting practices including, inter
alia, shift of capital expenditures to current expenditure, fast depreciation, and under-invoicing of exports.
6      A Ministry of Finance survey, based on tax return data of more than 70,000 enterprises in the formal sector
in 1993, indicated that roughly 50 percent were loss-making. These enterprises accounted for nearly 40 percent
of employment in the formal sector, and losses were equally attributable to majority State-owned and private
enterprises. Five hundred and forty one large loss-making enterprises (with losses exceeding HUF 100 million)
accounted for 61 percent of total enterprise losses in the sample and about 48 percent of overdue bank loans. This
lower concentration of classified debts in the large loss makers reflects a somewhat disperse structure of liabilities
of this group-bank debt accounted to 43 percent of total liabilities of large loss makers, with the State and other
creditors (mostly other enterprises) accounting for 27 percent and 29 percent, respectively. Because bank loans
were more dispersed than in other countries in the region, and because enterprises were also very indebted to both
other enterprises and the State, there was greater need for coordination among creditors in the resolution of the non-
performing asset problem.



34
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
9.         A    b ro  ad
assessment  of  the  1994                                    Table 2.2
situation   based   on
information from  different       FinancialPerfornanceofthe  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993 1994    1995
Enterprise Sector, 1988-
sources indicated that the         1995 (in percent of GDP)
gross losses in that year
were  financed   by:  (i)          Net Losses (Losses-Profits) -16.9 -16.2 -13.3  -4.1  6.1  3.4  -0.1   -2.2
depreciation   (about   2
percent  of  GDP);  (ii)
budgetary subsidies (about         Gross Losses           0.6  1.4  2.6  8.4  14.2  10.1  7.2    3.1
0.8 percent of GDP);7 (iii)
interest accrued by banks8
(about 2 percent of GDP);         Sources: Central Statistical Office, Ministry of Finance
(iv) accumulation of arrears
to the Customs authority
(about 0.3 percent of GDP)
and to the Social Security Funds (about 1.2 percent of GDP); and (v) transfers from SAMAs through
guarantees on bank loans and new equity infusions (about 0.5 percent of GDP). The residual of 0.2-0.7
percent of GDP would have been financed from other sources, such as assets sales,' arrears to other
enterprises and to the tax authority (APEH), and new bank loans.
10.    The persistence of large losses clearly indicated that some important leakages from the side of
the State and other creditors remained. Financing from the State alone, either in the form of budgetary
subsidies, transfers from asset managers, or unchecked build-up of tax arrears, amounted to at least
2.5 percent of GDP, and probably significantly more if one takes into account unidentified sources of
finance (such as APEH). In the case of banks, although there was no evidence of significant new lending
to loss-makers, the accrual of interest on classified loans without a more aggressive collection policy,
implied that loss-making enterprises benefitted from an automatic source of finance that allowed several
of them  to remain unchecked.  Therefore, reduction of losses depended on further tightening of
enterprises' budget constraints by the State and other creditors.
7       Includes subsidies to agriculture at 0.2 percent of GDP, to MAV of 0.3 percent of GDP and payments on
guarantees of 0.3 percent of GDP. Total subsidies to enterprises of 2.3 percent of GDP included the above subsidy
plus price (mostly MAV) and agriculture export subsidies.
8      Estimated on the basis of the average stock of bad and doubtful assets of HUF 350 billion, and an average
lending rate of 25 percent. Accrued interest is accounted by the enterprises as actual operational expenses. Banks
are allowed to include accrued interest in their revenues, but have to provision against this at 100 percent. Interest
income on the bad and doubtful loans has been largely replaced by the interest income on recapitalization bonds.
9       Asset sales by managers must still be common practice. A significant share of enterprise losses today is
generated by "shell" companies which have been stripped of their assets but retain most of the original debts. In
1993, 24 percent of the losses of the large-loss making enterprises were generated by enterprises with less than 50
employees.



35
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Resolution of Debts and Losses
11.    Bankruptcy and Liquidation. Hungary has made progress in developing a working bankruptcy
system as a vehicle for restructuring the enterprise sector. A tough bankruptcy law took effect on January
1, 1992, including, among other features, mandatory filing for bankruptcy by enterprises with arrears
of 90 days or more. The law did lead to a substantial number of filings for bankruptcy and liquidation.'"
It was amended in September 1993 to remedy deficiencies noted in the first 18 months of practice. These
amendments: (i) made filing for bankruptcy optional for enterprises with debts 90 days in arrears; (ii)
reduced the previously required 100 percent creditor approval of a reorganization agreement to two-thirds
(in value) and one-half (in number) of claims; (iii) changed the previously automatic 90-day moratorium
on debt service payments to a moratorium conditional on agreement of the above proportion of creditors;
(iv) raised compensation levels for liquidators; (v) required the appointment of a trustee in
reorganizations; and (vi) allowed debtors to resort to reorganization through bankruptcy every 2 years.
12.    Following the introduction of these amendments, average monthly filings for bankruptcies and
liquidations decreased from 170 and 760 before September 1993, to around 13 and 400 respectively, after
that date. The specific amendments that may have led to the reduction in filings include: (i) the removal
of the automatic trigger; (ii) the removal of the automatic moratorium on debt service and the requirement
of approval from creditors within 15 days of filing for such a moratorium (because these changes reduced
the financial incentives to file for bankruptcy); and (iii) the requirement of a trustee in bankruptcy
procedures (because this increased the financial costs for the participants). The 1993 Debt Conciliation
Scheme was another reason for the decline in the number of filings (Paras. 14-17)."
13.    In addition to the decrease in the number of filings for bankruptcies and liquidations, there were
long delays in the conclusion of liquidation cases, leaving room for abuse and adverse resolutions (e.g.
asset stripping). These delays were partly due to excessive legal appeals and also partly to the new
liquidator fee system (which included a percentage of gross revenues of going concerns in liquidation),
as this created an incentive for liquidators to slow down the liquidation procedure. It became apparent
that further modifications to the bankruptcy and liquidation framework were necessary. These
modifications would maintain the thrust of the existing system, but would enhance the incentives for firms
to file for bankruptcy, of banks and other creditors to file for liquidation, and for liquidators to speed up
the completion of liquidation procedures."2
10     From January 1992 through September 1993, there were 5,000 filings for bankruptcy (by managers), and
16,000 filings for liquidation (by creditors). By September 1993, the court had announced a decision to proceed
with about 3,300 reorganizations, or 60 percent of the bankruptcy cases. Roughly half of the cases announced by
the Court had concluded at least temporarily with agreements between debtors and creditors, and the rest has been
followed by liquidation procedures. By September 1993 the court had also announced the decision to proceed with
4,200 liquidations.
11     In 1995, the number of bankruptcy cases announced by the courts slowed considerably (2-3 cases per
month), while liquidation cases remained at roughly the same rate.
12     To address these issues, a draft amendment to the bankruptcy code was submitted for Government
approval in October 1996, and then to Parliament in November 11 1996.



36
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
14.   The Debtor Conciliation Scheme. The Debtor Conciliation Scheme, which aimed at achieving
out-of-court resolution of enterprise debts to the banks and to State creditors (the tax and customs
authorities and social security), was introduced by the previous Government in late 1993 in conjunction
with the 1993 Bank Consolidation Program. All enterprises with classified loans to the banks were
eligible to participate in this program which was expected by the Government to lead to more rapid and,
in certain r.ases, less disruptive resolutions than those achievable through ordinary bankruptcy.
15.  The design of the program was, however, flawed from its inception. The program initially
encompassed three schemes: the accelerated, the normal, and the simplified procedures. The simplified
process provided for the type of negotiations between debtors and creditors that is common practice in
market economies. However, the first two schemes had seriously problematic features: (i) participation
by line ministries in the negotiations (as well as AVU, AVRt, and other SAMAs) which opened room
for non-commercial pressures on the banks during negotiations; and (ii) mandated sale of classified loans
at their net value by the banks to AVU or AVRt (at the option of these agencies and on condition that
the banks were the only party who did not approve a debtor's restructuring proposal) which created
expectations of additional bail-outs of the enterprises. While the Bank believed that a well-designed and
limited out-of-court conciliation procedure could be helpful in improving and accelerating the
restructuring process, we strongly recommended to the Government that it eliminate the above two
features, but this recommendation was not followed.
16.   The banks appeared to take seriously their leadership role in the first stages of the program, by
filing for liquidation and forcing restructuring in a significant numbers of cases. However, negotiations
were progressively interrupted by persistent interventions from AVU, which quickly spent all of its
available resources to influence the outcome of the negotiations. It also blocked several negotiations, and
arbitrarily removed some enterprises from the scheme after a reasonable agreement had already been
reached. As a result of these interventions and other implementation delays, only 20 percent of the total
value of classified loans under the program (HUF 29 billion, out of a total stock of classified loans of
HUF 150 billion) had effectively been dealt with by December 1994.
17.   The new Government reviewed the Debtor Conciliation Scheme at the end of 1994, and concluded
that the scheme had not met its objectives. The final deadline of the scheme was extended to June 1995,
in order to allow completion of the work underway. The two problematic features of the scheme were
eliminated, effectively implying termination of the accelerated and normal procedures. Although this was
a step in the right direction, it did not improve fundamentally the credibility of the scheme, which was
seriously impaired by excessive interference and only moderate progress at debt resolution. Given the
mistakes made in 1993 and 1994, the Government terminated this conciliation program in July 1995.
B.    The Banking Sector
Background
18.   The transformation of the Hungarian banking system began in 1987, when NBH established the
Hungarian Credit Bank (MHB), Commercial and Credit Bank (K&H), and Budapest Bank (BB) to take
over its banking activities in industry and agriculture, and gave greater autonomy to the Hungarian
Foreign Trade Bank (MKB), the National Savings Bank (OTP) and the savings cooperatives. Under this
new two tier system, OTP and the cooperatives retained monopoly control of retail deposits, and MKB
of foreign exchange transactions. The three new commercial banks were given the exclusive right to



37
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
carry enterprise accounts and provide virtually all forint-based lending to the enterprise sector. However,
as the loan portfolios which were distributed to them had specific economic sector concentrations, these
banks remained initially specialized in these segments of the enterprise sector.
19.    In 1989, the market was opened                                Table 2.3
to new entrants, paving the way for the        Structure and Size of the  Assets   Loans    Deposits
establishment of new  foreign  joint-          Financial Sector (end-
venture banks and small privately owned        1994)
banks.       Governmental   agencies                                         (in percent of total)
participated in the establishment of some      1. Domestic Banks           76.7   71.5        76.2
of these new banks, such as Postabank,               Large Banks           67.0   61.0        67.0
established  with  capital from  AVU.                Other Banks            9.7   10.5         9.2
During  1989-1990,  the  Government            2. Savings Cooperatives      4.5    5.0         4.5
allowed the commercial banks and OTP             Venture Banks             18.8  23.5         19.3
to  offer the  full range  of banking          4. Total Banks and
services, from the mobilization of retail        Cooperatives               100    100         100
deposits  to   foreign   exchange
transactions. In 1991, Parliament passed       5. Total as % of GDP          74    44           59
the  Banking  Act which, inter alia,
established the State Banking Supervision
agency  (SBS).  In  1993, Parliament
adopted the National Deposit Insurance Fund Act, which provides insurance for retail deposits of up to
HUF 1.0 million (approximately US$10,000).
Bank Ownership and market positions
20.    With the exception of the MKB, the State                                 Table2.4
maintained effective control, until mid-1995, of all four                     table 2.4
large banks which initially comprised the system (Table                          (1994)
2.4). Moreover, State control over these banks was                                        Private   Private
increased through a series of bank recapitalization in                       State       Domestic  Foreign
1993 and 1994. State participation was much smaller in                      Share          Share    Share
the case of both MKB, which was privatized in 1994,          Large Banks         85.4        14.6      3.8
and Postabank, which was established as a majority            OTP                 80.4      19.6       -
private bank.  State participation in several smaller         MHB                 94.0       6.0
banks was quite substantial (about 95 percent), partly        K&H                 94.0       6.0       -
also as a result of the recapitalization of these banks by    MKB                 28.8      12.9      58.3
the State in 1993 and 1994.  In mid-1995 Parliament           BB                  79.8      16.5       3.7
eliminated, through the new  privatization law, the           Postabank           35.8      49.1      15.1
previously   mandated   minimum   long-term   State          Other State
shareholding in all banks, except for OTP for which the      Banks                95.1       4.9       -
mandated minimum was reduced to from 50 percent to           Private Banks         1.0      23.0      76.0
25 percent plus 1 share.



38
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
21.   Subsidiaries of foreign banks and joint venture banks have increasingly penetrated the Hungarian
market. The market share of foreign banks almost doubled in the period of 1992-1994. By end-1994,
their total assets and deposits reached about 19 percent of assets and deposits in the system and they
represented more the 23 percent of the total loan portfolio of the banking sector.'3
Bank Recapitalization
22.   After the acceleration of the reforms and the sharp fall in output, the Hungarian authorities
became progressively aware of the critical financial situation of most Hungarian banks, particularly those
created from the National Bank of Hungary. In the context of the first recapitalization program (the 1991
Consolidation Agreement) the Government guaranteed 50 percent of HUF 21 billion in doubtful loans
which had been transferred to the banks in 1987. However, this program covered only 2 percent of the
loans held by the banks at the end of 1990.
23.   The second program  (the 1992 Loan Consolidation Scheme) took effect in May 1993, and
involved the exchange of HUF 98.4 billion in Government bonds for HUF 120 billion in non-performing
loans. The loans were carved out from the banks, with a view to execution of separate work-out
arrangements; but only partial success was achieved in this undertaking.'4 This scheme also failed to
remedy the problem of recurring asset quality deterioration, since no attempt was made to change the
banks' behavior.
24.    In the second half of 1993, a third program (the "13 + 1" Program) was introduced. This
program involved the exchange of HUF 57 billion in bonds for 90 percent of the book value of bank
loans to 12 large industrial enterprises and the State Railways (MAV). The Ministry of Industry and
Trade (MoIT), which selected these enterprises, had made the judgement that these enterprises were of
strategic importance to Hungary and that they could be turned around through short-term loss reduction
measures and financial restructuring, without major physical restructuring. As owners, AVU and AVRt
had the principal responsibility for turning around the industrial enterprises in this group, but made only
moderate progress in this endeavor.
13     In 1994, for foreign and joint venture banks the return on share capital reached 28.3 percent, the return
on assets 2.3 percent, and the return on equity 19.4 percent while the respective returns for domestic banks were
only 1.0 percent, 0.1 percent, and 1.7 percent. Also, foreign and joint venture banks' assets per employees were
three times higher, profit per employee ten times higher, and labor cost were less in proportion to cost of financial
activities than those in domestic banks.
14     Only HUF 40 billion in loans to 56 enterprises were originally bought by MBFBRt from the Government
(at a negligible price). MBFBRt was successful in reaching debt resolution agreements with all creditors in the case
of only 4 enterprises, for which turn-around programs have been implemented (most of the other enterprises were
already in bankruptcy or liquidation). The remaining HUF 80 billion were left for a long time at the banks.
Ultimately, at the Government's request, MBFBRt auctioned the remaining HUF 80 billion and was able to sell
HUF 7 billion. Currently, a large residual of more than HUF 70 billion remains under MBFBRt control and stands
a negligible chance of collection or restructuring.



39
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Box 2.1: The Structure of the Banking System end-1994
At the end of 1994, there were 43 banks in Hungary, half of which were domestically-controlled, and
255 cooperatives. The banking sector had assets of HUF 3.0 trillion, loans of HUF 1.7 trillion, and deposits
of HUF 2.5 trillion. The six largest banks- OTP, MHB, K&H, MKB, BB and Postabank-and their
subsidiaries accounted for roughly 70 percent of the system's assets, loans and deposits (Table 2.3).
OTP, the largest bank in the system, had one third of the approximately 1,050 branches in the
commercial banking sector and was the dominant retail bank in 1994.. It held 42 percent of total deposits and
approximately two thirds of household deposits, and was a major supplier of funds to the interbank market.
OTP's dominant position has been diminishing slowly, even though other banks have been able to mobilize
retail deposits since 1987. Postabank (OTP's closest retail bank competitor) has grown significantly since its
inception in 1990, but still has a relatively small deposit base compared to OTP. The savings cooperatives
(the second closest competitor, at least in rural areas) are also relatively small. The current efforts by the
commercial banks to gain access to OTP's cheaper and more stable deposit base should also lead to more
competition in the retail market. Moreover, the implementation of the Government's program to improve
primary and secondary markets for Government securities and access savers directly has put additional
pressure on OTP and is likely to contribute to a further decline in its share of the retail market.
The 255 savings cooperatives represent only about 5 percent of total banking assets, although they
constitute a potentially valuable network for savings mobilization and lending to small enterprises, especially
in rural areas. In order for the cooperatives to operate efficiently with limited resources, the Government has
determined that they should be coordinated through one organizational structure. In October 1993, the
cooperatives relinquished some of their independence in return for participation in the bank consolidation
program through the newly established National Organization Protection Fund of Savings Cooperatives
(OTIVA). Under the new structure, the cooperatives are expected to receive support services and to be
supervised, in part through a restructured and recapitalized Takarekbank.
MKB, MHB, K&H, and Budapest Bank can still be characterized as wholesale banks, as they remain
basically focused on mobilizing resources from and lending to enterprises. None of these banks dominates
wholesale banking (the largest- MHB -had less than 15 percent of total loans at the end of 1994). But their
combined share in total lending, which has begun to decline, remains high (38 percent). Nonetheless, these
banks will continue to face growing competition in corporate banking from the foreign and joint venture banks
as well as OTP and Postabank. At the samne time, they are themselves beginning to compete with the retail
market in the mobilization of household deposits.



40
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
25.    Th7e 1993/1994 Bank Consolidation Program. The Government undertook a reevaluation of the
banks in the second half of 1993 with the technical support of Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB). This
reevaluation concluded that eight banks, including MHB, K&H, and Budapest Bank, were still technically
insolvent and that, because of the significant loss of interest income from their holdings of non-
performing loans, the financial position of the banks would continue to deteriorate. A number of
cooperatives were also found to be capital-deficient. OTP had lower levels of capital than desirable.
26.    Immediate action on the insolvent banks appeared to be merited, because the negative cash flow
of the banks posed the risk of a liquidity crisis and contributed to the fairly high interest spreads (around
9 percent at the end of 1993). In addition, the Government viewed solvency as crucial to maintaining
public confidence in the banking system. As a result, it executed a plan to recapitalize these banks to an
estimated 0 percent CAR at year-end 1993, in return for additional equity ownership. The plan also
included two additional recapitalizations to bring the banks to 4 percent and 8 percent CAR, carried out
in May and December 1994, respectively. To effect the capital injection, the State issued 20-year bonds
amounting to HUF 165 billion, more than half of the total amount of recapitalization bonds. MHB and
K&H received the largest share of these bonds, because more than 50 percent of their assets were
estimated to be non-performning (Table 2.5).
27.    Each of the recapitalized banks was required to sign a Consolidation Agreement with the MoF,
designed to ensure their operational and
financial restructuring.   The banks                                 Table 2.5
were asked to evaluate their financial
and   operational  position;  prepare                      Government's Bank Recapitalization
corrective action plans; develop special                          (in HUF billion)
units  to  handle  classified  claims        l. "1992" Consolidation               98.6
separately from credit units; and
improve, as required, key operational        2                                     57.2
functions such as loan processing and         . "13+ 1" Program
review and asset/liability management.
However,  these   agreements,   as           3. "1993" Consolidation               165.1
concluded, were sketchy and had little
bite.    They  did  not define  any                                     December   May    December
quantitative   performance   criteria,                                   1993      1994      1994
because  of  the  lack  of  reliable         Sub-Totals                  130.1     19.0      16.0
information from in depth audits.
They did not adequately specify the             * MHB                    54.8       4.0
remedial   institutional   measures             * K+H                     33.4      5.0
requested of the banks and therefore            * BB                       5.0      4.6
left open to interpretation the extent of       * Takarekbank             10.7      1.4      0.0
the operational restructuring required.         * Other Banks             12.4      4.0      0.0
Finally, they included no sanctions in
cases of noncompliance.
* Cooperatives            8.8       0.0      0.0
28.    This situation was aggravated            * OTP                     5.0       0.0      0.0
by a weak governance of recapitalized
banks. Although the MoF established          4. Total (1+2+3)                      320.9
the  Bank  Control Unit (BCU)  in               In %of 1994 GDP                   7.5%



41
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
January 1994, the BCU's mandate and authority were not well articulated, and the unit was very lightly
staffed. The duality of share ownership between MoF and AVRt (which retained a minority position in
most banks and a majority position in OTP) added to the complications in exercising governance.
Finally, the ability to reform the banks was also seriously impaired by the fragmentation and weakness
of the supervisory and regulatory framework. This problem was rooted in the 1991 Banking Act, which
established a dual structure involving a Bank Supervisory Committee responsible for regulation and
enforcement, and a State Banking Supervision (SBS) responsible for supervision. This structure, along
with parallel NBH bank supervisory activities, severely limited prospects of creating a strong barik
supervision and spread thinly the scarce supervisory skills existing in the country. Bank supervision
focussed on passive monitoring of the banks and remained substantially underdeveloped.
29.   The Bank had strongly recommended against bank recapitalization on the basis of the existing
weak framework. It formally urged the authorities to ensure that recapitalization be contingent on major
strengthening of bank governance and supervision, and on robust restructuring and privatization programs
for the banks. Despite the Bank's advice, and even though the threat of a liquidity problem had been
virtually eliminated by the December 1993 recapitalization, the outgoing Government injected additional
capital in the banks, in May 1994, to raise their capital adequacy ratios (CARs) to 4 percent. The
outgoing Government also effectively locked-in an additional recapitalization of the banks, to increase
their CARs to 8 percent through tier-2 subordinated loans, which the new Government implemented in
December 1994 for MHB, K&H, BB and Takarekbank, as well as for OTIVA (the association of savings
cooperatives). The total amount of subordinated loans used in these latest recapitalizations amounted to
about HUF 16 billion.
30.   Thus, a series of Bank recapitalizations were implemented at great cost to the budget, without the
necessary changes in Bank management and incentives, and in an environment of passive Bank
supervision. Loss-making enterprises continued to benefit from an automatic source of finance from
accrual of interest on their loans from banks, and from financing from the State through budgetary
subsidies, transfers from asset managers, and build-up of tax arrears.






43
ANNEX III
Page I of 12
PENZUGYMINISZTERIUM
ALLAMTITKAR
-7//'-.
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dcar Mr. President.
I am writing this letter on behalf of the Govemment of the Republic of Hungary. As you know.
Hungary initiated enterprise and bank reforms in the 1980s. The first reforms werc limited in scope
owing to political constraints on the transformation of the system, however, since the political
turnaround in 1990. morc reforms were introduccd. which included elimination of legal regulations
.cstricting entrv of newv private enterprises to the market and the privatization of a number of State-
owned non-financial and financial institutions. As a result, the share of the private sector in GDP
incrcased from modest levels in 1990 to over 70 percent by 1996. Avhile foreign direct ingsment rose
ftrom a negligible level to USS15 billion. the highest level among Central and Eastern European
countries. The privatization revenues generated at the end of 1995 amounted to over USS3 billion. Al
the same time the number of Hungarian banks under foreign control rose to more than 20 out of a total
of 40 banks. These banks, the majority of which had been founded by foreign banks or had been
established in joint ownership with foreign banks. increased competition in several segments of the
financial sector and generated technological spillovers into the rest of the financial system.
Over the recent several vears we regularly reviewed the progress of the reforms and we have
found that much rcmained to be done. In mid- I 995. at the time of the foundation of APVRt. almost 65
percent of the initial State holdings of enterprise equity wvas under thc control of the State and some of
these enterprises were yielding a low return on a substantial amnount of the country's capital. The
persistence of large enterprise losses that arose in the 1990s-estimated at 7 percent of GDP in 1994-
indicated that there is still room for further reforms. In the wake of the entry of a number of private
banks and the privatization of some State-owned banks. State-owned banks no longer dominate the
financial sector. Thcsc banks had bcncfitted from several rounds of recapitalization b! the State.
achieved at great cost to public finances. Although they gradually reduced their business relationships
with loss making companies, and they implemented substantial cost cutting programs. therc is still large
scope for improvement in their efficiency. In the meantime, as a result of dramatic capital reductions
implemented in large State-owned banks and the expansion of the business acti%ities of the privatcly
ovmned banks, the structure of the Hungarian banking system underwent a substantial transformation.
Today banks in majority private ownership represent about 80 percent of the aggregatc balance sheet of
the banking systmn.



44                                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 12
In the course of the above reviews. wve found that. as a result of various deficiencies. a substantial
portion of the scarce rcsourccs continued to be diverted from productive uses, with adverse consequences
for Hungary's growth performance. For this reasorL we decided to fnalize the structural reforms
initiated in the I980s and to eliminatc structural problcms.  To achicie this goal. we are nowv
iinplemcnting an amnbitious program of enterprise and bank reforms. centered on the privatization of
almost all State-ow.ned enterprises and State-owned banks. We are determined to fully implement thc
reform program under a stable and consistent macroeconomic framewvork. We intend to achieve these
objcctives ovcr a relatively short period of tine. and request the assistance of the World Bank in the
finalization and financing of our reform program
Macroeconomic Framework
Hungary experienced severe external imbalances in 1994. as indicated by current account deficits of
morc than USS3.9 billion (more than 9 percent of GDP) and bv gross and nct external debt of 70 and 45
percent of GDP. Although the large current account deficits resulted partly from adverse external
developments. such as the recession in Western Europe and the sanctions on the former Yugoslavia. wc
arc aware that they have been more fundamentally caused by the largc budget deficits which emerged
since the early 1 990s. General Government deficits amounted to 7-8 percent of GDP since the successful
stabilization program of 1989-90. The potential impact of these large fiscal deficits on the current
account was initially neutralized by an impressive increase in household savings in the early years of the
decade, but wNas fully realized once savings returned to the levels wvhich prevailed in the late 1990s.
Our initial efforts to reduce these large deficits in the current account exclusively throughi a light
monetary policy did not produce the expected results, first because of the lags between the rates of the
National Bank of Hungary (NBH) and those of commercial banks and second because of the increased
degree of capital mobility in Hungar. Some of the largest enterprises (mostly joint ventures and
multinationals) did not have to rely on tightened domestic credit and borrowed abroad an amnount of up
to USS 2 billion annually. This access to foreign finance enabled an expansion of imestment and
imports, which maintained the pressure on the current account. However. this recovery of investnmenL
w'hile itself a wvelcome development, cannot be sustained for a long period under an expansionary fiscal
policy, as it would result in further increases in Hungary's still high external debt, unless it were
successfully neutralized through other means. The enterprises' access to foreign finance promoted
development of the economy. Under the current economic circumstances the objective is no longer to
restrain, but to promote investment, which may be facilitated by corporate borrowing from abroad and
by foreign direct investment.
We understand that our macroeconomic policies must open room for a sustained recovery of
fixed investment and must also achieve much greater efficiency in resource allocation through cntcrprise
and bank reforms We expect that in 1996 the gencral government deficit (excluding privatization
revenues) ivill be reduced to about 4 percent of GDP and, in the long-rur,L to about 3 percent (in line
with the Maastricht convergence criteria) in order to accommodate an increase in fixed investment to a
level of around 24 percent of GDP to allow Hungary to sustain growth and result in a current account
deficit not larger than the flows of foreign direct investment,
We also understand that in order to be fully consistent with the second major objective of the
enterprise and bank reforms. the medium term reduction of the deficit must be achieved primarily
through reductions in the level of expenditures, as opposed to increases in revenues The levels of both
general government revenues and expenditures have remained excessively high in Hungary (53 and 61
percent in 1994, 48 and 54 percent in 1995 and 46 and 50 percent in 1996, respcctively). still imposing
a very hea^y tax burden on the primate sector and implying a substantial presence of the State in
resource allocation. Efforts to cuL lhe deficit Lhrough rcvnue increase wvould impose evrn heaiier taxes
on the emerging private sector and contradict the objectives of the cnterprise and bank reforms. We
intend that the medium teni reduction in fiscal expenditures does not sacrifice the expcnditures that will
be necessary to support the bank restructuring program a restructured and more targeted social safcet



45
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 12
net. and those infrastructure and other investments wvhich are essential for the successful transformation
of the Hungarian economn.
Wc took the first steps toNvards this crucial fiscal reform wvith the passage of the supplementary
budget for 1995 xvhich reduced the general government deficit from 8.3 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.5
percent of GDP in 1995. This initial fiscal adjustment was accompanied by a 9 percent devaluation in
March. 1995. of the Forint. the introduction of a pre-announced crawviing peg. and by a very restrictive
wvage policy for all public sector emnplovees. including the emplovees of State-owned enterprises. As a
result of this policy the net avcrage real wkage declined by 12 percent (deflatod by the CPI). The
measures takcn in March. 1995 together with stringent monetary and wage policies, aimed to promote
stabilitv of the economy and sustainable growth. Although these measures have resulted in an increase
of general government revenues. they have also restricted budgetary spending.
We are aware that the reduction in the 1995 general government deficit was achieved mainly
through an increase in fiscal revenues, primarily the imposition of a temporary 8 percent import
surcharge. We believe that the introduction of more taxes would lend to aggravate distortions in
rcsource allocation and. therefore. we have further reduced. in 1996. both fiscal revenues and fiscal
expenditures relative to GDP.  The ratio of general government revenues to GDP (excluding
privatization revenues) has declined by about 7 percent of GDP in two years. while the ratio of
expendilures to GDP has declined even faster, by almost 12 percent of GDP in the same two years
The 1996 budget is centered on reducing inefficiencies in the public sector. Social transrers
have been reduced by nearly 2 percent of GDP. and transfers to extra budgetaiv funds and central
budgetarv institutions (more than 60 percent of which is used to cover personnel expenditures) by
another I percent of GDP. We wcre noL able to meet our budget targets for the social insurance funds.
but since actual developments for our central budget have exceeded budget targets. wve vcrc still able to
meet our overall fiscal target of 4 percent of GDP.
.4e have continued to implement a strict wvage policy during 1996. in order to moderate the
growth of real average wages. and to ensure that increases in aggregate demand are centered on
investment and exports. As a result. net real average wages are expected to fall by 2-3 percent in 1996.
The actual inflation rate in 1996 has not slowed as quicklv as originaliv envisaged with CPI inflation
expected to reach 23 percent in 1996. but is on a downward trend. We have also maintained the
cravling peg exchange rate regime and have accelerated the phased withdraval of the import surcharge
which will be eliminated fully in 1997.
These measures contributed to a significant reduction in the current account deficit. from
USS3.9 billion in 1994 to an expected USS1.9 billion in 1996 (4.3 percent of GDP). The current
account deficit in 1995 fell far below the level of foreign direct investment, due to the extraordinary
inflow of foreign capital from large year end piivatizations xvhich resulted in FDI of USS4.4 billion.
Our strategy for 1997 is to consolidate macroeconomic improvements by implementing
structural reforms in public finances. These reforms are focused on the medium-temi reduction of fiscal
expenditures as a percent of GDP which will enable the reduction of the deficit Nvhile. at the same time.
reducing the still high tax rates, especially payroll taxes. Our 1997 general government deficit excluding
privatization revenues, but including the net effects of financial flows related to the securitization of the
valuation account of the NBH, is planned to be 4.7 percent of GDP. We will proceed with additional
efforts to reduce the ratio of non-interest expenditures to GDP in 1997 and in subsequent years. We
intend to maintain a consistent, fiscal policy during the forthcoming years. in line with the intention in
the long-run to achieve inflation rates belows IO percent. annual GDP growth rates of 4-5 percent and a
sustainable balance in the current account.
The reform of public finances is expected to be fully implemented over a period of about four
years, starting in 1997, exvn though the full effect of some reform measures, most notablv the pension
reforn, would be felt only in the very long term. Reductions in public spending would come from the



46
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 12
combined refonn of cash and in-kind transfer programs. including pension and health care benefits, sick
pay. familv allowances and social assistance; from employment reforms in public administration: and
from intergovernmental finance reforms.
We wvill ensure that our macro-economic framework will remain consistent by implementing
monetary. exchange and inconme policies coherent with the objectives of our medium term fiscal refornn
and more generally %vith the objectives of our enterprise and bank refomis.
Enterprise Sector Reform
Our enterprise reform program places major emphasis on enterprise privatization as a means of
ensuring strong corporate governance and improved efficiencv. As a result of our prior efforts in
privatization and privatc scctor development. the privatc scctor share of GDP has risen rapidly and
surpassed 70 percent by end 1995. However. the State still owvns a significant portion of productive
assets. Our objective is. therefore. to complete the privatization process by privatizing the bulk of
remaining State assets over the next two years. We are also addrcssing the problem of enterprise losses.
Institution of strict financial discipline through stringent limits on transfers to loss-making enterprises.
and swift restructuring or liquidation of these enterprises have therefore been central elements of the
refoml programu. Over the last feC  years, we have madc important progress in developing the legal and
incentive framewvork for the enterprise sector. and in removing barners to domestic and international
competition. entr, exit. and private sector growth. We will undertake specific further improvements to
enhance the efficiency of the bankruptcy and liquidation process. and to augment the incentives for debt
collection. Our progran's ultimate objective is to achieve, through thcsc means and through the reform
of the banking system. substantial gains in productivity and sustainable growth.
Privwgiztrion
Significant development of the private sector began in 1 988 with the enactment of the Company
Law. which allowed private individuals to establish and own shares of modern corporate entities. the
Transfornation Law, which prouided the legal framework for conversion of State enterprises into joint
stock and limited liabilitv companies. and the Foreign Investment Law, which allowed full repatriation
of capital and profits in convertible currencies. This framework was further improved by enactment of
the Concession Law in 1991. which enabled further private participation in infrastructure development
activities.
In 1990, the newv Hungarian Government put in place a privatization process which aimed at
increasing efficiency by attracting experienced owners for the enterprises. A multi-track privatization
program was initiated. focusing on privatization of enterprises in the competitive sectors. This effort
%uas supported by the World Bank through the Enterprise Reform Loan (ERL). The State Property
Agency (AVU) w-as established in 1990 to superise and manage the privatization of virtualiy all State
enterprises. and to exercise the owvnership function on behalf of the State. Subsequently. we established
the State Holding Company (AVRt) in 1992, to manage holdings in enterprises in which wve opted to
retain partial or full long-term State ownership, and to privatize the remaining shares in these
enterprises.
By December 1994, AVU had divested shares amounting to about HUF 844 billion or the
equivalent of 75 percent of its initial portfolio holdings. AVRt had divested HUF 133 billion of State
equity, or ) percent of its initial holdings. Sixty five percent of initial State equity holdings bv AVU and
AVRt still remained in State hands
In order to accelerate the privatization effort, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a ncev
privatization law which became effective in Junc 1995. This new lav has provided for a major
broadening of the privatization base, through radical contraction of the previously mandated minimum



47
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 12
State shareholdings in specified enterpriscs. II roquircs that majority State-ownership be limited to a
select number of enterpriscs mostlv in public services.
The newv law also proNides for privatization to be carried out by a new agency APVRt which
consolidates the functions and rcsources of AVU and AVRt. APVRt was established on June 17. 1995;.
by Government dccrce.  Since then. the APVRt management and supenisory boards have been
constituted and its statutes have been approved by the Government. The new law enables div estiture by
APVRt of about HUF 1.3 trillion. or about 80 percent of the approximately HUF 1.6 trillion of Slate
equity in enterprises initially held bv APVRt.
Most of the small and medium enterprises are being privatized through a simplified privatization
program in twvo rounds. Large enterprises are being divested through tendering procedures. For all
enterprises in wliich it holds minority shareholdings below 25 percent. APVRt is offering these shares
cither in privatization portfolio packages to be divested through tendering procedures. or separately Ior
their current private owners. or to the enterprisc itself for buy back, and for all remaining shares through
auctions or public tcnders.
In September 1995. APVRt's board of directors approved the rules for privatization tenders and
auctions. Since then. APVRI has been applving these rules. which ucrc formally approved by thc
Government in April 1996. These rules do not require floor prices except for two instances. required by
the 1995 Privatization LaNv and the 1)9t) Pre-Privatization Law. relating to the first stage of simplified
privatization and the sale of spun-off asscts. But. in thesc instanccs. floor prices do not apply in
subsequcnt rounds.
APVRt has adopted a policv of promoting effective governance of enterprises by their privatc
majority sharcholders. Its 1995-1997 business plan reflects its commitmcnts 1o focus the exercise of
State ownership prior to privatization mainly on large enterprises with strategic importance. APVRt is
currently represented on the boards of only 10 percent of the enterprises in which it has minority sharcs
In addition. its busincss plan mandates that its initial minority holdings in small and mediumii entcrpriscs
be fully divested by end-1996, unless otherwise specified in the Privatization Law. In accordancc %%ith
the provisions of the Company Law, voting rights of minority shareholders are limited to a number or
predefined instances where decisions are to be made on setting up or amending the statutes: increasing or
reducing the share capital: changing the class of shares or changing the rights attached to the various
classes of shares: and mergers, spin-offs, and dissolution or winding up of the enterprises
The recently approved APVRt's overall 1995-1997 privatization program reflects our objective
of divesting State shareholdings to a minority position in all APVRt held enterprises in this thrce year
period, except as specified in the privatization law. The program targets divestiture of about HUF 700
billion in State equity shareholdings by end 1997. as wfell as, if possible. about HUF 300 billion of
equity holdings in MVM and other enterprises during this period. The program also targets divestiture of
all APVRt's initial minority holdings in small and medium enterprises by end 1996. and divestiture ol at
Icast a0 percent of APVRt's initial minority holdings in large enterprises by end 1997.
In implementing this program, APVRt will achieve, by end-1997, cumulative divesture of HIJF
550 billion, cxcluding transfcrs to the social security funds, other state asset management agencies. and
municipalities. These divestitures will include privatization leading to majority private ownerslhip in the
six electricitv distribution enterprises and to minority State ownership in MOL. and divestiture of
strategic stakcs (25 perccnt plus I share) in an additional two non-nuclear power generation enterpriscs.
They uill also include divestiture of 100 percent of APVRt's initial minority holdings in small and
medium enterprises, of at least a 25 percent share of APVRt's total initial minority holdings in largc
enterprises (excluding power generation enterprises), and divestitures to a State minority position in all
APVRt's other holdings in small and medium enterprises (unless otherwise specified in the privatization
law).
Adoption of the privatization law set the stage for acccleration of privatization and a
breakthrough in the privatization of the utility sector in the last quarter of 1995. In the final months of



48
ANNEX III
Page 6 of 12
1995. APVRt completed divestitures of more than HUF 400 billion in State shareholdings. These
included privatization of a majority ownership in all five regional gas distribution cnicrprises. ovcr 45
percent in all of six electricity distribution enterprises. over 35 percent of two of the seven non-nuclear
power generation enterprises. more than 29 percent of MOL (the oil and gas company). and a fiurther 37
percent of MATAV (the telecommunications enterprise) vAhich reduced Statc ownership in this company
to less than 35 perccnt.
These privatizations wvere facilitated by the April 1994 gas supply and electricity laws which
established the regulatory framework for the gas and power sectors. by the Januanr  1995 and
subsequent gas and power price increases, and by the July 1995 Goernmment decrees on gas and
electricity prices which will guidc further price adjustnicnts through rest of this decade.
In addition to the large utility privatization. 302 privatization transactions were concluded by
which I (l finrs became full) privatc bv mid- 1996. In addition to these. 240 enterprises wvill exit i'rom
the APVRt portfolio by end- 1996. of which further 65 finns will be privatized by simplified procedures.
siares of 118 enterprises wxill be incorporated and sold in a so called minority privatization portfolio
package. the rest of enterpriscs will bc divested by other fonns. APVRt's initial enterprise portfolio is
expected to be reduced by more than 60) percent by the end of 1996.
APVRt received HUF 437 billion in cash revenues froni the 1995 privatization program. This
represents more than twvo thirds of cash revenues that can be expected from its 1995-97 privatization
program. given the Government commitment to swap around HUF 100 billion in statc assets for
compensation coupons by end 1997, the expected sales to employees of minority shares of the large
companies. the expected liquidations of non-viable companies. and the planned translers to social
security funds and municipalities.
Reduicdion in Enferp)rise Losses
The first years of the transition posed serious challenges to most Hungarian enterprises. as thce
involved a sharp contraction of their traditional CMEA markets, the opening of the Hungarian cconomni
to imports. and a substantial reduction of production subsidies.  Large numbers of enterprises
experienced difficulties in adapting to the more competitive en-ironment. as indicated by a ven. large
increasc in gross enterprise losses. from 0.6 percent of GDP in 1988. to a peak of 14.2 percent of GDP
in 1992. the year during which practically all subseclors reported losses. Losses have declined since
then. but still amounted to 7 and 5 percent of GDP in 1994 and 1995. respectively. This indicates that
budget constraints are being gradually tightened, even though some inefficient enterprises continue to
operatc.
We recognized that. to curtail enterprise losses, it was necessary to submit enterprises to tighter
budgct constraints. To this end. we have adopted a clear policy guiding the use of privatization revenues
by the new privatization agency. aimed at preventing the recycling of privatization revenues toward the
financing of loss-making actiiities. This policy is reflected in the 1996 State budget law and in APVRt's
business plan for 1996-1997. and mandates the transfer of APVRt privatization revenucs to the budget.
net of the agency's operating costs, direct privatization expenditures. the amounts needed to senice
inherited financial obligations including those from AVU and AVRt. and a limited amount of resources
which could be used by APVRt to facilitate downsizing or reorganization of entcrprises to prepare them
for subsequcnt privatization. We have been committed to limiting this amount to 0. 3 percent of GDP in
the course of 1995-1997. This cap comprises all types of financial support from APVRi to enterprises in
its portfolio, including expenditures related to guarantees. cash infusions, net new lknding. and any other
typc or iancial support. Only expenditures on guarantees related to the conclusion of privatization
deals will be excluded from the cap, as these guarantees do not constitute fiuancial support to
cnterprises. These include. intcr alia. guarantees on environmnental liabilities and on the accuracy of the
enterprises' financial statements. The actual cxpenditures subject to the cap were only) 0.2 percent of
GDP in 1995. They will increase to 0 4 percent in 1996 in order to cover expenditures on Borsod steel
development deferred from 1995. We will ensure that they remain below 0.3 percent of GDP in 1997.



49
ANNEX III
Page 7 of 12
Access of enterprises to these financial resources will have to be recommended by the board of APVRt
and. for at least 8() percent of the total amount. approvcd by the Government. At the same time, we will
implement a policy under which no further borrowing wvill be undertaken by APVRt. and will ensure
that this policv is complied with.
To avoid that stricter control on financial support to enterpnses by APVRt is undermined by
more generous support to enterprises from the State budget, we wvill continue to implement the strict
subsidy policy that we introduced at the start of our reforms. This policy has allowed us to reduce
subsidies to entcrprises (including investment subsidies and expenditures on guarantees) and total
subsidies from the State budget from 5.4 percent and 12.4 percent of GDP in 1989. respectively. to 1.9
percent and 3.4 percent of GDP in 1995. We wvould also like to point out that the bulk of these
remaining subsidies has been allocated to agriculture and to MAV (the Hungarian railwavs). and that
the amounts allocated to other sectors of the Hungarian econom) have been kept extremely snmall.
Producer subsidies and expenditures on guarantees to these sectors amounted to only 0.5 percent of
GDP in 199:. We will continue to adhere to this strict subsidy policy in 1996 and 1997. In particular.
xve will constrain transfers to enterprises outside the agriculture and railways sectors to at most 0.4
percent of GDP in 1996 and 1997. That will include explicit subsidies to enterprises. expenditures on
guarantees, and all other forms of financial support to enterprises outsidc the agriculture and rail%%avs
sectors. Finally. we will also reduce the annual cap on new State guarantees on loans to enterprises
from the 1995 level of 3 percent of total State budget expenditures to 2 percent of total State budget
expenditures in 1996. We will ensure compliance with this cap in the 1996 budget and will maintain an
equivalent cap in the 1997 budget.
Legal Frameworkfor Debt C'ollection
Progress in restructuring enterprises will depend not only on rapid privazization and tight
budget constraints, but also on improNing the efficiency of the mechanisms for debt and loss resolution.
We have made progress in developing a working bankruptcy system as a vehicle for restructuring the
enterprise sector. A tough bankruptcy law took effect on January 1, 1992. and was amended by
Parliament in September 1993. We recognize that this law should be modified in very speciric but
important ways, to enhance the efficiency of the bankruptcy and liquidation process. and to augment the
incentives for creditors to pursue debt collection. The amendment contains, inter alia: (i) increasing to
30 days the time allowved for preparation of decisions by the creditors on granting moratoria on debt
service payments by enterprises. in the case of bankruptcy proceedings. in order to allow adequate time
for creditors to familiarize themselves with the overall financial situation of the cnterprise and for
debtors to prepare reorganization strategies: (ii) requiring that continuation of the operations of the
debtor be subject to creditor approval. in the case of liquidation proceedings. (iii) mandating auctioning
of all assets in liquidation proceedings: (iv) stipulating the level and structure of the fees of liquidators
and trustees and (v) mandating quarterly reports by the liquidators on the cost of liquidation. The
pro isions of this amendment will be applicable to all ongoing liquidation procedures Because of the
moral hazard that was associated with the Debtor Conciliation Scheme introduced in late 1993 to
achieve speedy out-of-court resolution of enterprise debts to the banks and to State creditors. we
terminated this program in June 1995.
In April 1996. Parliament enacted an amendment to the civil code (Law XXVI of 1996) and
completelh re-regulated liens and mortgages. These new rules which are in force since May 1996.
generally enable legal entities and unincorporated economic associations to create liens on the whole or
certain part of their property. Pursuant to the amendment, chattel mortgages may also be established.



50
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 12
Banking Sector Reform
Our banking sector refomi is centered on rapid bank privatization, and on the establishment of a
legal and regulatorv framework in line \sith the nomi in developed market economies. We recognize
that this is essential to supporting a sustained recovery and promoting intcgration into the European and
international markets.
In the second half of 1993- an assessment was undertaken which confirmed that eight banks.
including the Hungarian Credit Bank (MHB). the Commercial and Credit Bank (K&H). and Budapest
Bank. were technicallv insolvent. It was also anticipated that. because of the significant loss of interest
income from holdings of non-perforning loans. the financial position of these banks would continue to
deteriorate. The negative cash flowv of the banks posed the risk of a liquidity crisis, and the Government
concluded that it was crucial to restore solvency and ensure a minimum level of liquidity, in order to
maintain public confidence in the banking system. It executed a plan to recapitalize these banks to an
estimated O perccnt capital adequacy ratio (CAR) at year-end 1993. in rctum for additional equity
ownership. Subsequently. the Government injected additional capital in the banks. in May 1994. to
raise their CARs to 4 percent. The plan also effectivelv locked-in an additional recapitalization. to
increase the banks' CARs to 8 percent through tier-2 subordinated loans, which we implemented in
December 1994 for MHB. K&H. BB and Takarekbank. as well as for savings cooperatives through
OTIVA (an integrating organization of saving cooperatives). To effect these capital injections, the Statc
issued 20-year bonds amounting to HUF 165 billion. This raised the total stock of recapitalization
bonds issued since 1992 to nearly HUF 350 billion. or 7 percent of 1994 GDP.
In retrospect. wve recognize that the Govermcnt's ability to reform the banks xwas scriously
impaired bv weak governance and by the fragmentation of the super%isory and regulatorv framevvork.
The bank recapitalizations were implemented at great cost to the budget. without the necessarn changes
in bank managcment and incentives. and in an environmcnt of passive bank supervision.
Bank Privatizaoion aInd Resohl,it,n
In order to obtain meaningful results from the bank recapitalizations, the Government pursued a
policy of vigorous privatization of State-owned commercial banks. As a basis for implementing thesc
privatizations, Parliament has eliminated through the newv primatization law the preiiouslv mandatcd
minimum long-term State shareholding in all banks, except for OTP for which the mandated minimum
was reduced from 50 percent to 25 percent plus I share. Two specialised banks (EXIMBANK and
MBFBRt) will remain 100 percent state owned.
ShorIlv after adoption of this law, we completed the transfer of majority control in OTP. the
largest bank in Hungary. to private owners through sales of shares to financial investors. management
and emplovees. and public offerings. We successfully privatized Budapest Bank in Deccmber 1')95.
After partial privatization in 1994, privatc oxvncrs have held, since May 1996. 100 percent of the 'shares
of MKB (the Foreign Trade Bank). Private owvners have a majority shareholding in many foreign and
joint-vcnture banks, including Postabank, one of the largest banks. As a result, private investors nowv
hold over 6() percent of the voting shares of the Hungarian banking sector.
We are comniiitted to implementing a policy of privatizing all viable State-owned commercial
banks. and liquidating non-viable banks Specific decisions on privatization of some of these banks have
recently been adopted by the Goverment. We have timetables specifying the actions that %ill be taken in
privatizing MHB. K&H, Mezobank, and Takarekbank. A fundamental principle of our banking sector
reform program is that no fiscal resources will be transfu:rred lo baiks, except for strictly limited
support necessary for the conclusion of privatization agreements or, no more than once for any financial
institution, for least cost liquidations/resolutions. Given the potential benefits of transferring oi-nership
of the banks to private investors. wc intcnd to retain some flexibility in completing privatization



51
ANNEX III
Page 9 of 12
agreements. Similarly, in order to stem further losses, we will providc thc minimum support neccssarv
to undertake least cost bank liquidations and resolutions. We confirm our commitment to the abovc
principle. We N-ill ensure implementation of the bank privatization program and the above fiscal
policies.
In the first part of 1995. wve appointed new management and supenrisory boards for both MHB
and K&H. the two large State-owned banks which required substantial preparation for privatization.
Since that time, these banks have developed and are implementing pre-privatization programs which
include: (i) improving the effectiveness of boards and management and adoption of new rules specifying
supervisory and management board responsibilitics. sanctions and inccntivcs. (ii) establishing for MHB
a core profitable bank inter alia through transfer of all non-bankable clients. problematic assets and
associated liabilities into a separate work-out entity without financial recourse to the corc bank: (iii)
adoption of cost reduction programs including a cutback of at least I 5 percent of staff, (iv) adoption of
strict risk minimization policies wvhich regulate lending to transferred and classified clients. and liniit
expansion of new activities. branches. subsidiaries and investments. (v) adoption of a program by the
banks for strengthening management information systems. credit risk and treasury risk management and
loan review, and intemal and cxternal audit; and (vi) adoption of sound capital and liquidity plans
demonstrating achievement of sustainable financial viability.
Following their appointment in early 1995. the new MHB managcment started immediately to
takc serious measures to stem the bank's losses and to elaborate the main elements of the required
separation of good and bad assets. MHB has since then transferred its troubled assets and liabilities into
a separate workout vehicle ("Risk Kfl"). The Govermment has extended a guarantee on the HUF II
billion ten-month bonds issued bv Risk Kft and to be held by MHB. Risk Kft will have no financial
recourse to the core MHB. and should be wvound up within this ten-month period. Firewalls have bccn
established to separate persomel, to prevent futurc transfcrs of assets. and to avoid anv lending by MHB
to Risk Kft customers. More than half of the troubled assets transferred to Risk Kit wvcre resolved in
1995. and have resulted in recoveries of about two thirds of the net value of these assets. At current
recovcry lcvels. it is cxpected that the loss on the bonds issued by Risk Kfl to MHB vill total about
HUF 4.5 billion. The State will bear this cost in the 1997 budget.
The managcment of MHB has madc significant progress on all other major elements of the pre-
privatization program. MHB already has reduced staffing levels bv more than 20 percent and will
further reduce staff costs as part of the rationalization of its operations and branch network. All rctail
functions are being reorganized under a new subsidiarv. Nepbank (Peoples' Bank). MHB has submitted
its proposed business plan and its privatization strategy for recicw by the Ministry of Finance in March
1996. Following the approval of its privatization strategy (Government Decision August 30. 1996).
MHB hired a privatization advisor, with financial support from EU/PHARE. In accordance with its
strategy. MHB privatization program is being implcmnnted and its prilatization tender invitation was
announced in September 1996.
K&H's loans and branches arc primarily concentrated in the agricultural and infrastructure
sectors. Together with lbusz Bank its former subsidiary which w%as merged into K&H on January 1.
1996, the bank has over 150 branches throughout Hungary. Over the past nine months. K&H resolved
more than half its troubled crcdit portfolio and has provisions covering more than 60% of its remaining
troubled portfolio.
K&H will conduct a careful review of its entire loan portfolio and work swvifly to identify and
correct potentially problematic relationships as soon as possible. A major cost reduction program.
including substantial staff reductions and rationalization of the branch network. will also be
implemented to enhance the bank s potential future viability. This program is integrated into a re-
engineering and reorganization of K&H. which is being undertaken with die assistance of external
advisiors. K&H has submitted for reuiew by the Ministry of Finance its proposed busincss plan and its
proposed privatization strategy in March 1996. Following Government approval of its prinatization
strategy. K&H recently hircd a privatization advisor.



52
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 12
In the event that they are not yet majority privately owned. MHB and K&H uAill. by that time.
have completed a thorough rcxic\ of the quality of their risk asscts and will have implemented cost
reduction programs. including cutback of at least an additional I 5% of staff. Risk Kft will haiv
resolved at least 75% of its assets.
Bv March 1995, it became apparent that our efforts to privatize four smallcr Staic-\ned banks
(Iparbank. Dunabank. Mezobank. and Konzumbank) had not been successful, These banks uere not
recapitalized to 8 percent in December 1994. and remained in non-compliance with bank regulations.
We have since detemined that the liquidation of Iparbank is the least costly resolution of that institution
and have withdrawn the bank's license and paid off all deposits. We have similarly initiated Dunabank's
resolution. Its performing assets were canred out and privatized. and the remaining vork-out institution
wvill be liquidated. Konzumbank was sold to thc Hungarian In%estment and Development Bank
(MBFBRt) in June. I995.
We have also evaluated possible alternatives for a least cost resolution of Mezobank and
Agrobank. two banks which senred the Hungarian agricultural sector. These analyses convinced us that
the least costl] resolution of the two institutions involves merger into a combined inslitution. a
Government guarantee to cover losses on the most troubled portion of the new bank's loan portfolio.
and a Government equity conribution to the new institution. The banks wvere merged into a new
Mezobank. on January 3. 1996.
We recognize that this merger. the first large combination of banking institutions in Hungary in
decades, will present a variety of complicated technical challenges. including integration of svstcms and
restoration of the profitability of twvo formerlv unprofitable banks. In order to ensure that Government
resources arc not wxasted. it is now crucial that every effort bc made to radically restructure the newv
bank as rapidly as possible. No further Government support will be provided to this institution, except
in the context of its priv-atization.
Mezobank submitted to the Government a proposed business plan and a privatization plan in
March 1996. Mezobank has established a wvorkout vehicle and has transferred to it targeted non-
bankable and problematic assets and associated liabilities without financial recourse to the core bank.
We expect to develop soon the preferred approach to privatizing Mezobank. Unless this bank is
priNatized by end-1997, it %vill: (i) resolve at least 35 percent of the adversely-classified assets covered
by the Government guarantee: (ii) resolve at least 25% of the adversely classified assets of the core
bank. (iii) adopt cost reduction programs including additional cutback of staff as necessarv: (iv) make
satisfactory progress in improving bank management, risk minimization policies and capital and
liquidity planning.
MBFBRt has retained. with support from EU/PHARE. financial/privatization advisors to assist
in preparing this bank for privatization. We will adopt a privatization plan for its non-development
banking activitics.
Blank Governance
The State's dominant ownership position in the banks provides the legal means for the
Government to ensure that bank privatizations and resolutions are pursued vigorously. There are several
means and channels for exercising State ovvnership control over the banks. The Assct Management
Agreement bctvwcn the Ministry of Financc and APVRt facilitates State ownership coordination in bank
governance and privatization. Each of these institutions is represented by board menbers in the banks.
The Ministrv is also represented on APVRt's board, and, in case of bank priNatizalion decisions. an
additional representative of the Ministry is also invited. In addition, the Minister of Financc must
approve each bank privafization. all in accordance wvith the Asset Management Agreement and certain
laws. The National Bank of Hungary and the State Banking Supervision are also consulted in this
decision making process.



53
ANNEX III
Page 11 of 12
The governance rolc will entail strengthening of the banks' managemcnt and supcrvisory boards
and. approval and monitoring of the banks' pre-privatization action programs. This will involve. inter-
alia. the setting of perfonrance targets. proiision of incentives. exercise of sanctions. and identification
and coordination of the required tcchnical assistance to the banks from donors. It %will also include
assessment of the banks' privatization strategy and monitonng of the privatization process, We will
continue to maintain such arrangements.
Legarl and Regilialrv Franiewtork of the Binking .Seclor
Parliament adopted a new banking law (Law on Lending Institutions and Financial Enterprises)
(the "Law") on November 19.1996. which will become effectize on January 1. 1997. The new Law
improves the framework for bank governance. It defines in clear detail the role and responsibilities and
rcquired qualifications of executive and non-executive members of bank management boards The Law-
also explicitly requires operating management to develop policies and procedures. risk limits, and
reporting and infomiation systems to detect, measure. limit, and help manage risks. Morcover. the Law
establishcs the legal framewvork for regulation and supenrision of the savings cooperatives. Under thc
Law. the banks will be able to broaden the range of their activities by trading Statc securitics. Wc intend
to allow for further broadening of the banks' activities through future amendments to the Law.
permitting enhanced involvement bv financial instituiions in the capital markets.
limportant objectives of the new Law are to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of the
supervisory activities for the protection of depositors, and to allou- for the development of a strong and
rcliable banking system. The new Law assigns the responsibility for issuing prudential regulations to thc
Government and the Ministry of Finance. and for prudential supenision to the State Banking and
Capital Market Supervision (the "Supenision Agency") to be establishcd under the provision of the
Law
Under the new legislation the Supenision Agency will be a public administration organization
with nation-wide responsibility. Its President and Vice-Presidents shall bc appointed. and may be
removed. only by the Prime Minister. upon joint motion of the Minister of Finance and the Prcsident of
the National Bank of Hungary. The possiblc grounds for removal of such officials are listed in the Law
The President of the Supervision Agency shall have sole responsibility for the institution directing tlhc
agency. The President has full responsibility for the supenision of financial institutions and for
enforcement of the law. free from all government influence Technical management shall be the
responsibility of the two Vice-Presidents, one for banking and the other for capital markets.
The State Banking Supervision ("SBS") has issued regulations covering capital adequacy. loan
classification and liquidity requirements and has aligned the weights applied for capital adequacy to best
international standards. We have also modified the Decree I 181 t)1991 to introduce mandatorv suspcnsion
and reversal of income on adversely classified borrowers.
The neu Law defines the licensing criteria and the range of applicable actions and obligations.
It provides appropriate leewvay to the Supervision in licensing and in evaluating the performancc of the
financial institutions. In order to enhance the efficient and safc operation of the system of lending
institutions, the criteria of market entry and of the acquisition of holdings in Icnding institutions are
tightened. As opposed to the current system, the licensing process will consist of two stages: applications
%,ill have to be submitted both for establishment and then for operation. The law also contains detailed
regulations defining the personal. material and financial requirements for the license and provides for
requirements concerning the possible owvners. It endows the bank supenrisors with full cnforcement
powers. provides an cffecti%'c mechanism for temporary intervention of problem banks. and defines the
responsibility for bank resolution We will issue regulations dcefming thc fonnat and contents of the
external audit reports for banks. the valuation of risk assets. reporting requirements on interest
capitalization, reporting and valuation requirements on investments in securities, acceptability and
valuation of collateral, and accounting. reporting requirements and valuation of debt restructuring by



54
ANNEX III
Page 12 of 12
banks and niles defining the standards for credit and market risk managcment and appraisal of
collateral.
In accordance with EU directives. the poNver to make commitments on behalf of a financial
institution will have to be discharged jointly by at least two executives. The Law will contain pro isions
conccming the composition of the goveming boards. including the proportion of internal and external
board members.
Because sufficent capital is important to the safetv and soundness of financial institutions. the
minimum registered share capital for financial institutions will be increased from HUF I billion to HUF
2 billion. For cooperative lending institutions. minimum capital levels will be raised to HUF 100 million
and each will be required to join an institutional protection svstem to diversifv risk. Such increased
capital shall be required of new institutions al inception, while existing institutions will be permitted to
increase capital over a short period oftime.
During the first six montlhs of 1996. the SBS developed a proposed supenisory strategy.
examination prograni and institutional development plan for bank supenrision. These programs will be
adapted to reflect the Law and adopted by the new Supervisory Agenci' by April 30. 1997.
31st January 1997
a.  
LaszI6 Akar



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                     Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                          Page 1 of 10
HUNGARY ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF KEY POLICY ACTIONS
Actions Undertaken to Date                                Second Tranche
A.     Overall Economic Performance        Agreement on a medium term macroeconomic framework        Satisfactory compliance with the macroeconomic
consistent with the objectives of the enterprise and banking    framework.
reforms.
B.     Improving Corporate Governance
1.      Privatization
Adoption by Parliament of a new Privatization Law which;
(i) increases privatizable share of State holdings by HUF 475
billion and (ii) limits long-term majority State ov.nership to a
select number of enterprises mostly in public services.
Completion of the establishment of APVRt.
Government approval of APVRt rules for tenders and
auctions.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                                Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                                     Page 2 of 10
Privatization (continued)'    Adoption by APVRt of a privatization program targeting         Divestiture of a cumulative HUF 550 billion in
divestiture by APVRt of at least HUF 700 billion in State      State equity. This will include:
equity share holdings by end-1997. The program will target
divestiture to a minority position of all APVRt's initial      Total divestiture of all APVRt's initial minority
majority equity holdings in enterprises by end-1997 (except    holdings in small and medium enterprises (except
as otherwise specified in the privatization law). It will include  as otherwise specified in the privatization law), and
total divestiture of its initial minority holdings in small and  divestiture of at least a 25 percent share of
medium enterprises, by end-1996 (except as otherwise           APVRt's total initial minority holdings in large
specified in the privatization law), and of at least a 50      enterprises (excluding power generation
percent share of APVRt's total initial minority in large       enterprises). Divestiture to a minority position of
enterprises by end-1997. These targets will exclude any        all APVRt's other holdings in small and medium
transfers to the Social Securities Funds, other SAMAs, or      enterprises, unless otherwise specified in the
local governments.                                             priyatization law.
Divestiture of at least HUF 350 billion in State equity
shareholding. This includes:                                                                                         LA
Privatization of majority ownership of all five regional gas
distribution companies.
Privatization of at least 45 percent of all six electricity    Privatization of majority ownership in these
distribution companies.                                        electricity distribution enterprises.
Privatization of over 35 percent of two of the seven non-      Divestiture of strategic stakes (25 percent plus I
nuclear power generation enterprises.                          share) in an additional 2 non-nuclear power
generation enterprises.
Privatization of over 29 percent of MOL.                       Divestiture of State shareholding in MOL to
minority position.
Divestiture of MATAV shares to reduce State ownership in
MATAV to 35 percent or less.
'All divestitures targets are mncasured as of APVRt's initial position following adjustments mandated by the privatization law.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                 Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                      Page 3 of 10
2.     Tightening Constraints in    Adoption by Government of a policy mandating the transfer   Transfer of privatization revenues to the budget in
1996-97 budgets for State-   of privatization revenues to the State budget, net of operating  accordance with this policy.
Owned-Enterprises         costs of APVRt, inherited financial obligations (including
those from AVU and AVRt), and a pre-defined and limited
amount of support to enterprises in APVRt's portfolio,
subject to strict criteria.
Adoption by APVRt of an annual cap on net flow of financial  Compliance with this cap during 1996 and adoption
support to enterprises in its portfolio amounting to 0.4% of    of a 0.3 percent cap in 1997.
GDP in 1996. Financial support subject to the cap will
include payments related to guarantees, cash infusions, net
new lending and any other financial support. Support by
APVRt will be used to facilitate downsizing or to prepare
enterprises for privatization. Only payments on guarantees
related to the conclusion of actual privatization transactions
will be excluded from the cap. These include, inter alia,
guarantees on environmental liabilities and guarantees on the
accuracy of financial statements. Access to these resources
will have to be recommended by the board of APVRt and,
for at least 80% of the total amount, approved by the
Government.
Implementation of a policy under which no further borrowing Continued compliance with this policy.
will be undertaken by APVRt.
Adoption by the Government of a 0.4% of GDP cap on      Compliance with the cap and adoption of the same
subsidies to enterprises, expenditures with guarantees, and  cap in the 1997 State budget.
any other form of financial support to enterprises outside the
agriculture and railways sectors in the 1996 State budget.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                 Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                      Page 4 of 10
2.     Tightening Constraints     Reduction of the annual cap on new loan guarantees from the  Compliance with the cap and adoption of the same
(continued)                State budget, from 3% of total State budget expenditures to   cap for 1997.
2% of total State budget expenditures in 1996.
3.     Bankruptcy, Liquidation    Submission to Parliament of proposed amendments of the   Adoption of the amendments.
and Mortgage Law          bankruptcy code to improve the efficiency of
bankruptcy/lliquidation procedures.
Enactment of revisions to the civil code relating to pledges
and mortgages.
Termination of the Debtor Consolidation Program.
00



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                                 Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                                     Page 5 of 10
C.      Improving Bank Governance              Privatization of majority ownership of OTP.
l   1.  Privatization and Improved
Bank Governance2              Privatization of maiority ownership of Budapest Bank.
Submission to the Bank of a Government policy statement
defining banking sector privatization strategy for remaining
State-owned banks:
*targeting privatization of all viable State-owned banks by    Achievement of targets set out in the Government's
end of 1997 and liquidation of non-viable banks. The policy    policy statement, including, inter alia, appointment
statement will encompass a timetable of actions to be taken in  of privatization advisors and offering of these
privatizing MHB, K&H, Mezobank, and Takarekbank over    banks.
1996 and 1997.
*excluding any additional fiscal resources to banks, except    Satisfactory implementation of this policy.
for strictly limited support necessary for conclusion of
privatization agreements, or no more than once per bank, for
least cost liquidations/resolutions.
Unless they are privatized, completion of the
Completion by the Government and MHB and K&H of the            following actions for remaining majority State-
following pre-privatization actions:                           owned large banks3:
*establishment for MHB of a core profitable bank inter alia    *completion of a thorough review of the quality of
through transfer of all non-bankable clients and problematic    risk assets, including the loan and investment
assets and associated liabilities into a separate work-out entity  portfolio, other non-operational assets (e.g. real
(Risk Kft) without financial recourse to the core bank.        estate in subsidiaries), and off-balance sheet risks.
*resolution of at least 75 percent of the assets of
Risk Kft4.
2 Targets mneasured from mid-1995, unless otherwise specified.
3 Whereas MHB has recendy been privatized, these actions now apply only to tC&H.
4This target has already been exceeded.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                      Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                           Page 6 of 10
Privatization and Improved   *improvement in effectiveness of boards and management
Bank Governance             and adoption of new rules for the banks specifying
(continued)                 supervisory and management board responsibilities,
sanctions, and incentives.
*adoption of cost reduction programs including cutback of at  *implementation of cost reduction programs
least 15 percent of current staff.                        including cutback of at least an additional 15
percent of the staff in the banks.
*adoption of stringent risk minimization policies which
prohibit lending to transferred clients, regulate lending to  *report by the MoF on implementation of these
classified clients of the bank, and limit expansion of new  policies.
activities, branches, subsidiaries and investments.
*adoption of a program for strengthening management        *Report by the MoF on implementation of this
information systems, credit risk and treasury risk         program.
management, loan review, and internal and external audit.
*adoption of sound capital and liquidity plans for the banks    *Report by the MoF on implementation of these
demonstrating achievement of a sustainable financial viability. capital and liquidity plans.
Liquidation of Iparbank.
Initiation of the the closure/liquidation of Dunabank.
Completion by the Government and Mezobank of the           Unless it is privatized, completion by Mezobank of
following actions:                                         the following actions5:
*establishment for Mezobank of a core bank inter alia      *resolution of at least 25 percent of the adversely
through transfer of targeted non-bankable and problematic  classified assets of the core bank.
assets and associated liabilities into a separate work-out entity  *resolution of at least 35 percent of the assets of
without financial recourse to the core bank.               the Mezobank work-out vehicle.
5 Targets measured from January 3, 1996.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                    Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                         Page 7 of 10
1.     Privatization and Improved
Bank Governance            *adoption of a strategic plan for Mezobank focussing on   *improvement in effectiveness of boards and
(continued)                development of the bank's core client base and integration of  management and adoption of new rules for the core
the formerly separate Mezobank and Agrobank.              banks specifying supervisory and management
board responsibilities, sanctions, and incentives.
*adoption of cost reduction programs including
additional cutback staff as necessary.
*adoption of stringent risk minimization policies
which prohibit lending to transferred clients,
regulate lending to classified clients of the core
bank, and limit expansion of new activities,
branches, subsidiaries and investments.
*adoption of a program for strengthening
management information systems, credit risk and
treasury risk management, loan review, and
intemal and external audit.
*adoption of sound capital and liquidity plans for
the core bank demonstrating achievement of a
sustainable financial viability.
Appointment of financial/privatization advisors for MBFBRt.  Adoption by MBFBRt of a satisfactory
privatization plan for its non-development banking
activities.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                      Page 8 of 10
2.     Bank Governance                   Establishment of satisfactory institutional arrangements in the  Completion of satisfactory operational review of
MoF and APVRt for bank governance and privatization, and  these arrangements.
of effective institutional arrangements for coordinating with
the supervisory authorities.
3.     Improving the legal and regulatory
framework
Banking Law               Adoption by Parliament of a new Banking Law which:       Establishment of the legal framework for
rationalization of the savings cooperatives.
*defines the role, responsibilities, and required qualifications
of bank management and supervisory boards.
*assigns the full responsibility for issuing prudential
regulations to the Government and the MoF, and for                                                      C
prudential supervision to the new supervisory agency.
*endows the bank supervisor with full enforcement powers
(including, inter alia, to apply graduated sanctions and to
utilize regulatory forbearance).
*provides an effective mechanism for temporary intervention
of problem banks, and defines the responsibility for managing
bank resolutions.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                      Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                           Page 9 of 10
3.      Improving the legal and     *provides an improved framework for bank regulation on a
regulatory framework       consolidated basis, including, inter alia, definition of:
(continued)                 acceptable capital adequacy linked to the risk profile of the
individual banks; degrees of capital deficiency; bank insiders
and related parties.
Accounting Legislation      Amendment by the government of Decree 181/1991 to
introduce mandatory suspension and reversal of income on
adversely classified assets.
Bank Regulation             Adoption by SBS of regulations which adjust risk weights  Issuance of regulations defining the format and
used to determine capital adequacy in line with the BIS   contents of the external audit reports for banks,
standards.                                                 the valuation of risk assets, reporting requirements
on interest capitalization, reporting and valuation
requirements on investments in securities,
acceptability and valuation of collateral, and
accounting and reporting requirements and
valuation of debt restructurings by banks and rules
defining the standards for credit and market risk
management and appraisal of collateral, all in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.



HUNGARY EFSAL                                                                                                                                       Annex IV
Matrix of Key Actions                                                                                                                          Page 10 of 10
D.      Development of Bank Supervision          Adoption of legislation establishing and empowering a new         Completion of a satisfactory review of the
supervisory agency with the full responsibility for prudential   activities of the newly established supervisory
supervision set out in the banking law, and providing             agency.
flexibility in compensation of professional supervisory staff.
Development by the bank supervisory authority of a6:              Satisfactory progress in meeting targets set by the
strategy, the examination program and the
*supervisory strategy;                                            institutional development plan including: full scope
examination of at least 10 banks, completion of
*examination program; and                                         credit examination methodologies, completion of
joint review with the Bank of the skills and
*institutional development plan for bank supervision.             experience of the supervisory staff, and continued
recruitment of examiners and maintenance of
required technical assistance.
Recruitment of examiners and deployment of the technical
assistance required to support implementation of the plan.
+ Actions Completed
6Agreement has been reached that the supervisory strategy, examination program, and institutional development plan will be adapted to the new banking legislation and submitted to the Bank by March 31,
1997. These documents will be adopted by the new supervisory agency by April 30, 1997. These commitments are reflected as dated covenants in the loan agreement.



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
APVrt SHAREHOLDINGS IN ENTERPRISES
Table 1: APVRt Initial Shareholdings in Enterprises a/
Number of          Total Equity       APVRt initial   APVRt Equity to    Employment
Enterprises                               Equity            be Divested
APVRt. Holdings                                       749                2346                1630                1262             500,281
Group 1: Majority Holdings                            430                1408                1267                 902             314,671
(i) Large Enterprises                             171                1366                1227                  865            211,871
of which:
MATAV                                    1                 185                 126                  80              17,795
MVMb/                                    3                 247                 247                 124                 500
MOL                                      1                 261                 250                 172              16,802                         a
Gas Distribution                         5                  68                  68                  68               8,233
ANTENNA Hungaria                         1                  11                  10                   7               1,625
(ii) Medium and Small Enterprises                 259                  42                  40                   37             102,800
Group 2: Minority Holdings                            319                 938                 363                 360             185,610
(i) Large Enterprises                             145                 904                 356                  353             163,870
of which: Power Generation                       7                 172                  74                  74              15,372
Power Distributiond'                   6                 288                 135                 242              31,457
(ii) Medium and Small Enterprises                 174                  34                    7                   7              21,740
Memo Item:
Total Strategic Enterprisescl                        24                1106                 1017                 766              91,784
Notes:
a/ Does not include APVRt's shareholdings in banks nor Ministries shareholdings of enterprises.
Assets withdrawn for individual sale (HUF 20 bn.) also excluded.
b/ MVM equity presented here reflects the reduction by a share portfolio swap between MVM and APVRt. on 12/29/1995.
c/ Includes MATAV, MVM, Power Distribution, Power Generation, MOL, Gas Distribution, and Antenna Hungaria.
d/ APVRt initial minority holdings turned to majonty after the swap for MVM shares in 12/30/1995.
Source: APVRt



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
Table 2: APVRt end 1995 Shareholdings in Enterprises a!
Number of       Total Equity      APVRt. end
Enterprises                       1995 Equity
APVRt. Holdings                                     659             2080              1159
Group 1: Majority Holdings                          362             1269               971
(i) Large Enterprises                            163             1238               943
of which:
MVM                                     3              247              247
Power Distribution                     6               288              124
MOL                                     1              261              167
ANTENNA Hungaria                        1               11                10
(ii) Medium and Small Enterprises                199               31                28
Group 2: Minority Holdings                          297              811               188
(i) Large Enterprises                            135              779               182
of which:
MATAV                                   1              185               52
Power Generation                       7               172               43
Gas Distribution                       6                68               34
(ii) Medium and Small Enterprises                162               32                 6
Memo Items:
Total Strategic Enterprises                         25             1232               677
Liquidation total 1990 - 1995                      623              172               168
Notes:
a/ Does not include APVRt's shareholdings in banks nor Ministries shareholdings
of enterprises.
b/ Includes MATAV, MVM, Power Distribution, Power Generation, MOL, Gas
Distribution, and Antenna Hungaria.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 8
Table 3: APVRt 1995 Equity Flowsa"
APVRt Equity
APVRt Equity         Transfered in
Divested in 1995           1995
APVRt. Holdings                                          452                   17
Group 1: Majority Holdings                               222                   12
(i) Large Enterprises                                216                    9
of which:
MATAV                                    69                   0
MVM                                       0                    0
MOL                                      83                   0
Gas Distribution                         34                   0
(ii) Medium and Small Enterprise                       6                    3
Group 2: Minority Holdings                               230                    5
(i) Large Enterprises                                229                    5
o/w Power Generation                             31                   0
Power Distribution                        118                    0
(ii) Medium and Small Enterprise                       1                    0
Memo Item:
Total Strategic Enterprisesb/                          335                    0
Notes:
a/ Does not include APVRt's shareholdings in banks nor Ministries
shareholdings of enterprises.
Assets withdrawn for individual sale (HUF 20 bn.) also excluded.
b/ Includes MATAV, MVM, Power Distribution, Power Generation,
MOL, Gas Distribution, and Antenna Hungaria.



68
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
Table 4: APVRt Financial Operations, 1995-97
(in HUF billions)
1995    1996    1997
I. TOTAL REVENUES                                 481.0   413.8 271-291
1. Privatization Revenues in Cash                437.7   118.7  175-195
I.a. FX                                       411.2
l.b. Forints                                   26.5
2. Dividends                                        5.7     6.5      5.0
3. E-Loans and Installments                         4.0     0.8      2.0
4. Swaps of Shares for Compensation Coupons        30.2    44.8    48.0
5. Reserves from Previous Year                      0.0   240.0    41.0
6. Other income                                     3.4     3.0
II. TOTAL EXPENDITURES                            481.0   413.8 271-291
1. Direct Costs of Privatization                   14.1    27.0    14.0
l.a. Fees and Comissions                       12.1    26.0       9.0
L.b. Payments on Guarantees                     2.0      1.0     5.0
Related to Environmental Liabilities
Related to the Firm's Book Value
i.c. Other e.g. back tocompanies, cont. annuity)  1.3    10.8    23.0
2. Asset Management Costs                          16.5    27.0    21.0
2.a. Fees and Comissions                         3.7     0.0      3.0
2.b. Payments on Guarantees                     2.6      4.0      5.0
Related to Loans
Other (Specify)
2.c. Reorganization Costs                       10.2    23.0    13.0
3. Administrative Costs                             4.5     5.0      3.5
4. Debt Repayment                                  22.0     0.0
5. Transfers of Income to Extra Budgetary Funds     0.0    13.0      8.0
6. Transfers of Income to Municipalities            2.3    36.0    21.0
7. Transfers of Income to Central Budget          159.6   209.0  83-103
7.a. Privatization revenues                    150.0   192.0   70-90
7.b. Dividends                                   5.6    10.0      5.0
7.c Debt repayment due to "Debt Concilliation"  4.0      7.0      8.0
8. Swaps of Shares for Compensation Coupons (1.4)    30.0    45.0    48.0
9. Reserves and Provisions                        240.1    41.0    49.0
9.a. Reserves from Privatization              200.6      0.0      0.0
9.b. Provisions for Future Guarantees          39.5    41.0    49.0
Memo Items:
1. Transfer of Shares to Municipalities            0.0    67.2       0.0
2. Transfer of Shares to Social Security Funds     9.0    55.0       0.0
3. Breakdown of Reorganization Costs
3.a. Borsod                                      4.0    12.0      0.0
3.b. MBFB Rt                                              5.0     3.0
3.c. Other                                       6.0     6.0    10.0
4. Stock of Guarantees                            48.1    41.0    49.0
4.a. Related to Direct Costs of Privatization   33.0    34.0    41.8
4.b. Related to Asset Management                 6.4      7.0     8.2



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
Table 5: Hungary: Banking Sector 1994
Breakdown by Ownership
Share     Percent    Percent
Number of capital total  held by   held by    Of which
Banks    HUF bn.    State         Private    Foreign
ITUF bn.  State   Sector
Majority State Total               18         228.6       90.8        9.3        0.3
of which Large Banks                4         171.2       90.3        9.7        0.4
OTP (National Savings Bank)      1         28.0        80.4       19.6        0.0
MHB                             1         74.1        94.0        6.0        0.0
K&H                             1         51.9        94.0        6.0        0.0
Budapest Bank                   1          17.2       79.8       20.2        3.7
Other banks                        14         57.4        92.1        7.9        0.0
Minority State                     25         64.5        7.9        92.1        67.4
of which Large Banks                2         15.6        29.3       70.7       40.3
Postabank                       1          6.5        35.8       64.2        15.2
Foreign Trade Bank              1          9.1        24.7       75.3        58.3
Other banks                        23         48.9        1.0        99.0       76.0
Total                               43       293.1       72.5        27.5        15.0
Sources: SBS annual report, Hungarian Financial and Stock Exchange Almanac,
Bank es Tozsde (Bank & Stock Exchange - periodical), and World Bank estimates.



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 8
Table 6:
Hungary: Banking Sector 1994
Breakdown by Market Share
Break-     Balance
total     down by   sheet total    share
ownership   HUF bn.
Majority State Total               110.8      52.8%       1992.7      65.1%
ofwhich Large Banks                79.9       38.1%       1680.0      54.9%
OTP (National Savings Bank)     40.2       19.2%       939.9      30.7%
MHB                             9.5        4.5%       317.5       10.4%
K&H                            10.6        5.1%       229.9       7.5%
Budapest Bank                  19.6        9.3%        192.7      6.3%
Other banks                        30.9       14.7%       312.7       10.2%
Minority State                     99.1       47.2%       1069.7      34.9%
of which Large Banks               28.6       13.6%       474.8       15.5%
Postabank                       9.6        4.6%       200.7       6.6%
Foreign Trade Bank             19.0        9.1%       274.1       9.0%
Other banks                        70.5       33.6%       594.9       19.4%
Sources: SBS annual report, Hungarian Financial and Stock Exchange Almanac,
Bank es Tozsde (Bank & Stock Exchange - periodical), and World Bank estimates.



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 8
Table 7: Hungary: Banking Sector 19951/
Breakdown by Ownership
Share     Percent    Percent
Number   capital total  held by     held by    Of which
HUF billion    State    PSrvate    Foreign
Majority State Total              18         80.2        90.5        9.5         0.0
of which Large Banks               2         17.6        94.0        6.0        0.0
MHB                            1          7.2        94.0        6.0         0.0
K&H                            1          10.4       94.0        6.0         0.0
Other banks"                       16        62.6        89.5       10.5        0.0
Minority State                    24         131.3       19.9       80.1        60.2
of which Large Banks               4         73.6        34.8       65.2        36.6                      -
OTP (National Savings Bank)     1         28.0        49.0       51.0        21.0
Budapest Bank                  1         20.0        22.8        77.2       63.7
Postabank                      1          16.5       30.6        69.4       18.3
Foreign Trade Bank"            1          9.1        24.7        75.3       58.3
Other banks"                      20         57.7        1.0        99.0        90.2
Total               .            42        211.5       46.7        53.3       37.3
Sources: SBS annual report, Hungarian Financial and Stock Exchange Almanac,
Bank es T6zsde (Bank & Stock Exchange - periodical), and World Bank estimates.
1/: Estimates



ANNEX V
Page 8 of 8
Table 8: Hungary: Banking Sector 1995
Breakdown by Market Share
Break-     Balance     Mre
Equity    down by   sheet total   Market
total    ownership   HUIF bn.       share
control
Majority State Total                 76.0       25.7%       810.1       22.4%
of which Large Banks                 21.6       7.3%        498.3       13.8%
MHB                              9.0        3.0%        246.1        6.8%
K&H                              12.6       4.3%        252.2        7.0%
Other banks/'                        54.4       18.4%       311.8        8.6%
Minority State                      219.7       74.3%       2805.1      77.6%
of which Large Banks                113.8       38.5%       1886.2      52.2%
OTP (National Savings Bank)      44.0        14.9%       1072.8      29.7%
Budapest Bank                    25.0       8.5%        212.9        5.9%
Postabank                        20.9       7.1%        270.0        7.5%
Foreign Trade Bank"              23.9       8.1%        330.5        9.1%
Other banks"                        105.9       35.8%       918.9       25.4%
Sources: SBS annual report, Hungarian Financial and Stock Exchange Almanac,
Bank es T6zsde (Bank & Stock Exchange - periodical), and World Bank estimates.



73
BANKING SUPERVISION - HUNGARY                                                   ANNEX VI
INSrTrTUrIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                            Page 1 of I
GENERAL                    SPECIFIC                            SUB                               EXPECTED
GOAL                   OBJECTIVES                     RPROGRAMS                 I               P-ESULTS
Banking Law (BL) Updated
1            |                 I                          BL Coordinated wlOther Laws
Maintain Updated                                               Consolidated Supervision Regulated
Prudential Policies            Internal & External                 Aproved Missicn and Goal
and Goals for                 Improvement of                   Adopted Supervisory Str2tety
Supervisory Manageenert              Institutional                 Adopted Internal Rating System
In Line with                Mandate & Strateg                 Supervisory Leadership Agreed
Legal Framework                                            Coordinadon wi Other Supervisrs Agreed
Inventory of Polcies inalized
PoLicy Devlopment Agreed 
Asset ClasdfcatIon Reinforced
2                              11                     Income Suspension & Reversal Adopted
Muintain eMcient Means                                                Collateral Rule Adopted
to Regulate & Promote                 Deydop                        Restructring Rules Adopted
Sound Banking Practice           RPrudentl Res                      CAR Reguations Reinforced
& Govemace of banks                and Guldelios                Other Items Vlualo. Rules Adopted
by Direamors & Managers                                              Credi Mng. Stnd. Adopted
MAarket Risk MgsL Stadaris Adopted
Liquidity Mug. Standards Improved
Long Andit Rports Imnproved
Portfolio Management Adopted
111 l                       Banks Assigned to Portfolios
Examination Manual Adopted
3                        Strengthen Core              Standardized Working Papers Adopted
Continuously Asses Safety &   |  Supervisory Functions           Summary Exaninatioo Report Adopted
MaItiin     H      Soundn  of each Bank with          On-S     azaEx ination            Examnination Planning Adopted
EMlent Dank  -1*    AppropiatebMix of Means          Off-Ste Surveillance and|           Financial Anlysis Toos Uniformed
Supervisory          According to Risk Profile          Licensi      ures              nventory of Lkensing Acdvities Done
Opsalons                                                                                   Lcensing Policies Adopted
Licensing Procedures Adopted
Entorcement Funcion Strengthend
4                                                            Legai Function Staffed
Ensure Appropriate                     IV                          Enforcement Policy Adopted
Preventive & Reparatory       __                                     Enforcement Natrix Adopted
Actions, d m               Develop Enforcement   |            Parameters for Action Adopted
Resolve                  Liptigtion Function &    B       Enforcement Linked to Exanination
Problem Institutions          Resolution Mechanism                 Pro-Forma Orders Adopted
& Paramdeers           | Pro-Forma Supervisory AgreemL Adopted
Rtlations wi HDIF Agreed
Monitoring Group Agreed
Intervention Procedures Adopted
Liquidation Procedures Adopted
5                   ________________                Organization Updated identilying Functions
Deploy an Internal               Reinforcement               Accountabilty for all Functlons Assigned
Organiation &                     of the SBS                    Iternal Procedures Reviewed
Procedures Supporting              Organization                Targets to Develop Procedures Agreed
Mission, Mandate, and                                            14O.-EineuiAl Activides Restricted
Strategy                                                     Strategic Planlg Introduced
VI                     Prent SkUh A Sff Profik Assessed
6 Fnturee&  P rtofi Estimated
Achieve Professiona               Reinforcement                  CmpetWI SI hW7 Strchtur  Set
Excellence of Tec hi          c        d ot Human          H            1RerktoPrga  Adopted|
Supervisory Staff        j         Resources                  Stuff Evualution Procedut  Adopted
I_______________                                             H        Training Program Adopted        |
Ii        Cede t FFbih  Adod






75
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I                          Timetable of Key Events
a.                   Time taken to Prepare Project      3 years
b.                   Responsibility for project preparation  Government/Bank
C.                   First Bank mission                 April 14, 1993
d.                   Appraisal mission departure        October 31, 1995
e.                   Negotiations                       September 1996
f.                   Planned date of effectiveness      May 1997
g.                   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs    Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3328)
Structural Adjustment Loan II (Loan 3347)
Enterprise Reform Loan (Loan 3459)
Section 11                             Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III                                     Special Conditions
See Annex IV






ANNEX Vill                                                                                                                                                      NIOP Schedule D
Page 1 of 2                                                                                                                                                     Run Dale.    1/27/97
Data as ol.   1127/97
Status of Bank Group Operations in Hungary
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Differesice
Original amount int USS millions                   batween expected
Project        Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                                                                         and actual
ID          Credit No.     Year                   Borrower                            Purpose                       IBRD           IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed   disbursements'
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 29
Active Loans
HU-PE-43446       L41130        1997    REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY                    PUBLIC FIN. MGMT.                          7.75                                       7.75
HU-PE-8494        L39030        1995    MUNICIP. OF BUDAPEST                  BUDAPEST URBAN TRANS                       38.00                                     31.18               7.78
HU-PE-S479        L37050        1994    GOVT. OF HUNGARY                      ENERGY ENVIRONMENT                        100.00                                     82.31               5.21
HU-PE-8496        L36350        1994    MINISTRY OF FINANCE                   TAX ADMIN. MODERNIZA                       29.00                                      14.59             14.59
HU-PE-U844        L35970        1993    GVT. OF HUNGARY                       HEALTH SERVICES AND                        91.00                                     74.53              44.73
HU-PE-9495        L35960        1993    REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY                   PENSIONS ADM.& HEALT                      132.00                                    116.32              90.22
HU-PE-U465        L35490        1993    REPUBLICOF HUNGARY PUBLI    ROADS                                                90.00                                     19.15              14.15
HU-PE-U482        L35090        1993    NATIONAL BANK OF HUN                  PRODUCT MARKET DEVEL                      100.00                                     55.66              36.66
HU-PE-8483        L33130        1991     ROH                                  HUMAN RESOURCES                           150.00                                      5.95               5.95
HU-PE-S478        L31910        1990    NBH                                   FINANCIAL SYSTEMS MO                       66.00                        24 00         0.46              24.46
HU-PE-U460        130560        1989    GOVERNMENT OF HUNGARY                 ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                        100.00                         074          9.74             -89.52
HU-PE-8475        L30200        1989    NBH                                   IND. REST. III                            140.00                        32.00        20.94              52.94
TOTAL                                                                                                                1043 75          000           56 74       438 58             207 17
Active Lomns                    Closed Loans                         Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                             548.43                          2384.39                       2932.82
Of which repaid                                                           64.47                          1351.73                       1416.20
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                             922.53                          1032.84                       1955.37
Aansount sold                                                                0.00                             0.00                          0.00
Of which repaid                                                           0.00                             0.00                          0.00
Total undisbursed                                                          438.58                             0.79                        439,37                                                                            >
eZ
a. Intended disburwments to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disburnement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



ANNEX VIII                                                                                                            MOP Schedule D
Page 2 of 2                                                                                                           Run date:   1/27/97
Hungary - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 12/31/96
(In US Dollar Millions)
Commited                                                 Disbursed
IFC                                                     IFC
FYApproval       Company                    Loan       Equity       Quasi       Parnic               Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
1987             AGROFERM                    5.74        0.00        0.00        0.00                 5.74        0.00        0.00        0.00
1987/89/92       Glass Wool                  0.74        0.00        2.02        0.00                0.74         0.00        2.02        0.00
1987/92          Unicbank                    4.00        0.00        0.00        0.00                 4.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
1988             Dunastyr                    7.06        0.00        3.75        4.72                 7.06        0.00        3.75        4.72
1989             Dexter Mold                 0.00        0.00        0.93        0.00                 0.00        0.00        0.78        0.00
1990             FHF                         0.00        3.75        0.00        0.00                0.00         3.75        0.00        0.00
1990             FHIA                        0.00        0.02        0.00        0.00                 0.00        0.02        0.00        0.00
1991             Magyar Suzuki               0.00        0.00        6.52        0.00                 0.00        0.00        6.52        0.00
1992             Euroventures HUN            0.00        2.66        0.00        0.00                 0.00        1.81        0.00        0.00                                     -4
1994             Albadomu Malata             5.26        0.00        2.03        0.00                 5.26        0.00        1.71        0.00
1994/95          HUN Telecom                50.00       28.52        0.00        0.00                16.00       28.52        0.00        0.00
1994             Mirelite                    5.40        3.00        0.00         0.00                5.40        3.00        0.00        0.00
1994             PapaTel                     0.00        0.51        0.00        0.00                 0.00        0.51        0.00        0.00
1994             Westel 900                  0.00        4.00        0.00         0.00                0.00        4.00        0.00        0.00
1995             PEF-Hungary                 0.00        2.50        0.00        0.00.                0.00        0.75        0.00        0.00
1996             Inter-Europa               10.00        0.00        0.00         5.00               10.00        0.00        0.00        5.00
Total Portfolio:           88.20       44.96       15.25        9.72                54.20       42.36       14.78        9.72
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan      Equity       Quasi       Panic
T     a>
There are no approvals pending commitment for this country.                                                                                                            PZ7
O X
'



79
Hungary at a glance                                                        ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
Europe &   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middleb
Hungary      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (mil0lons)                        10.2      488      440    l
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                            4.130     2,240    4,300               Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                               42.3    1,093    1,892
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (X)                                        -0.3       0.4      1.7      GNP                             Gross
Labor force ()                                        -0. 1      0.6      2.1     per                             primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)             25
Urban population (% of total population)               65        66       74
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        68       69
Infant morlality (per 1, 000 five births)              11        23       36               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..        ..      89
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    ..                13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  95        97      107                 Hungary
Male                                                 95        97                          Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               95        97
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1986      1994     1995      _
IEconomic ratlo.'
GDP (billions US$)                           11.0    20.6       41.5     43.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                37.8     25.0      22.2     22.4
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP  41.5    42.2      28.9     34.9             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   30.3    27.1       15.7    20.3
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..    23.2       14.5     18.8
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -2.2       -9.4     -5.7
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      4.0      3.8      4.4      Savings                      Investment
Total debWGDP                                  ..    67.7       67.7     71.4
Total debt service/exports                     ..    36.8       51.7     42.8
Present value of debtlGDP                      .        ..     63.6        .
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    242.0                           Indebtedness
197544  1986-96     1994      1996  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                               -     Hungary
GDP                                  3.0    -0.9       2.9       1.5      3.8
GNP per capita                       ..    -0.7        3.3       1.9      42          --    Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and nfs            6.3       0.8     13.7      15.4      6.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP at basic prices)                  1976     1986      1994     1995      Growth rates of output and investment (%}
Agriculture                                  17.2     17.9       7.0      7.1     40
Industry                                     50.3    47.0      32.1      34.6     20
Manufacturing                              41.6     39.0      26.7     27.3
Services                                     32.5     35.2     60.8      58.3                        9      3    9
(% of GDP at market prices)                                                      -20 -
Private consumption                          59.2     62.8      72.2     68.3    -40 -
General government consumption               10.4     10.1      12.1     11.5              -     GDI   -'D--GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services     48.9     40.1      35.4     37.0
197644  1986-96      1994     1995
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                   3.6     -3.0      -0.4      2.0     30
Industry                                      3.5     -2.3       5.8      3.4     20                        d
Manufacturing                               3.9      -2.2      6 0      4.0
Services                                      3.0      0.5       1.4      0.6                          /        X
Private consumption                           2.1     -0.4      -0.2     -5.7      a                       9
General govemment consumption                 3.4      2.0    -12.7    -6.5    -10
Gross domestic investment                    -0.8      0.7      19.8      3.1    -20 -
Imports of goods and non-factor services      2.3      2.7       8.8     -0.7                  Exports
Gross national product                                           2.6      0.8
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



80
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
Hungary
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986      1994     1998
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                          40
Consumer prices                                3.8       7.0      18.8     28.2    30
Implicit GDP deflator                           1.0      5.9      19.5     24.2    20 
Government finance                                                                   10
(% of GDP)                                                                           oJ
Current revenue                                 ..    59.8        53.6     48.7             90   91   92   93   94   95
Currentbudgetbalance                            6. .5             -1.7     -2.2                 -GDPdef  -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -1.1        -7.5     -4.1
TRADE
1975     1986      1994      1995 
(millions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                    8,267    10,701   12,867      20,000
Capital goods                                  .    2,443      1,286    1,549
Agriculture and processed food                 ..   1,804      2,190    2,803      15,000
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                             ..   7,846    14,554   15.466        10u000
Food                                           ..      583       992      917                  ID~[DbD
Fuel and energy                                ..    177        ,0       163Il00              ~        IlV
Capital goods                                  ..    1,365     3,388    3.110 
Export price index (1987=100)                           102       113                      89  90  91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987= 100)                          101        116        .                    Exports   in Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                               101         98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(millions US$)197                                      1986      1994      199       Current account balance to GDP ratio(%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services              9,807    10,251   15,984        2
Imports of goods and non-factor services               9,460    13,668   17,798
Resource balance                                 .      347    -3,417   -1,814        0
90  91  92   93  94   95
Netfactor income                                       -867    -1,403   -1,793       -2
Net current transfers                                    65       909    1.127       4
Current account balance,
before official transfers                            -455    -3,911   -2,480
Financing items (net)                                   971      3,418    7,805
Changes in net reserves                                -516       493   -5,325      -10
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)                     2,914     6,769   12,010
Conversion rate (locaWlUS$)                   44.0      50.1     105.2    125.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986      11994     1996    l-
(millions US$)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..  13,957    28,083   31,248
IBRD                                          ..      372      2,208    2,218                   G    A       C
IDA                                                     0         0         0                  3203 2218    385 D
1064
Total debt service                              .-   3.689       5,646    6.989                                      E
IBRD                                          ..       25       353       380                                 .  900
IDA                                                     0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..        0       138       145
Official creditors                            ..      225        57      -207               \
Private creditors                              -    1,707      1,279    2,840
Foreign direct investment                     ..        0      1,144    4,200
Portfolio equity                                        0       340       444                       F
23478
World Bank program
Commitments                                           279       100        38      A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                         162       168       188      B-IDA     D- Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                                    0       196       220      C - IMF                     G- Short-term
Net flows                                             162        -28      -32
Interest payments                                      25       157       160
Net transfers                                         137       -185     -192
International Economics Department                                                                                     8/20/96






IMAGING
Report No: P-    6826h HU
Type: PR



