Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19345
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4141-HU)
June 4, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1999)
Currency Unit        Forint (HUF)
I Ft   =    US$ 0.0046
US$1    =    HUF 218.6
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1995          1996            1997             1998
125.7         152.6           186.8            214.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APTF  -  State Financial and Capital Markets Supervision
APVRt  -  State Privatization Agency
CAR   -  Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
EU   -  European Union
EFSAL  -  Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FDI  -  Foreign Direct Investment
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDP  -  Institutional Development Plan
K&H   -  Commercial and Credit Bank
MATAV   -  Hungarian Telecommunications Company
MAV   -  Hungarian State Railways
MFB   -  Hungarian Development Bank (formerly MBFBRt)
MHB   -  Hungarian Credit Bank
MoF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOL  -  Hungarian Oil Company
MVM   -  Hungarian Power Company
NBH   -  National Bank of Hungary
OTP  -  National Savings Bank
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Counitry Director: Roger Grawe, ECC07
Team Leader: Hormoz Aghdaey, ECSPF
Sector Leader: llham Zurayk, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4141-HU)
Contents
Preface .................
Evaluation Summary ................................                                                                         ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .................................l
Part II. Statistical Tables ................................                                                              10
TABLE 1:   SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....................................                                              10
TABLE2:   RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ....................................                                           12
TABLE3: PROJECTTIMETABLE ......................                                                                     13
TABLE 4:   LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .................................... 13
TABLE5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATioN ...............................................14
TABLE 6:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .............................................................      23
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .............................................................                 23
TABLE 8A:  PROJECT COSTS .............................................................                             23
TABLE8B: PROJECT FINANCING .............................................................                           23
TABLE9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .............................................................                 23
TABLEI0: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .............................................................                    24
TABLE1]: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ........................................................... 28
TABLE12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .............................................................                28
TABLE13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .............................................................                    28
Appendixes:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4141-HU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in Hungary, for which a loan in the amount of US$225 million was approved on March
11, 1997 and made effective on May 30, 1997.
The loan was closed on September 30, 1998 as originally envisaged. The first tranche of the loan
was released upon effectiveness and was fully disbursed by September 30, 1997. The second tranche was
released on May 5, 1998, and the loan was fully disbursed by May 22, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Hormoz Aghdaey and Mihaly Kopanyi (ECSPF) of the Europe and
Central Asia Region and reviewed by liham Zurayk, Sector Leader (ECSPF) and Kathleen McCollom,
Anchor (ECC07). The borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Given borrower's thorough knowledge of Bank procedures and ICR objectives, preparation of this
ICR was begun in August 1998 by exchange of faxes instead of a formal completion preparation mission.
The ICR is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to the ICR by assisting in
preparation and review of the report and by providing a separate write up. A mission visited Budapest in
February 1999 to review jointly with the representatives of the borrower the respective draft reports of the
borrower and the Bank and to finalize the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4141-HU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Government of Hungary launched in 1990 a set of significant economic reforms aimed at
establishing a market economy. The authorities, however, did not respond appropriately to the emergence
of internal and external disequilibria, and did not push forward with the necessary structural reforms. By
end 1994, the General Government deficit had increased to 8.3 percent of GDP and the current account
deficit had reached about US$4.0 billion (9.5 percent of GDP).
ii.    In March 1995, the Hungarian Government's new economic team announced a set of stabilization
measures aimed at forestalling a pending crisis by reducing macroeconomic disequilibria and preparing
the stage for more fundamental reforms. The stabilization package included substantial cuts in fiscal
expenditures, increases in fiscal revenues, a 9 percent devaluation of the Forint, followed by a pre-
announced crawling peg, and a strict wage policy. These measures contributed to a significant
improvement in Hungary's external position. The 1996 budget resulted in a significant contraction in the
General Government deficit, from around 6.7 percent of GDP in 1995 to about 4.0 percent of GDP in
1996, and decline in Hungary's current account deficit to around US$1.8 billion (4.1 percent of GDP), or
very close to its long-run target. The Government's stabilization program was supported by an IMF
Stand-by, which was approved in March 1996 and was centered on key reforms of public finances.
iii.    Along with the stabilization efforts, structural reforms were reinitiated. A new privatization law
was adopted in mid-1995 which radically contracted the previously mandated minimum State
shareholdings in specified enterprises. This was accompanied by acceleration of privatization of State-
owned banks and enterprises. These efforts resulted, in the second half of 1995, in exceptionally
successful privatization of large utilities and transfer to private investors of two of the large State-owned
banks. Due to these sales, foreign direct investment in 1995 increased to more than US$4.4 billion (10.1
percent of GDP). Privatization proceeds were used to substantially reduce the stock of Hungary's
external debt.
Loan Objectives
iv.    The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) supported the Government's
1995-1997 enterprise and banking sector reform program. The main elements of the EFSAL program
included:
*  an enterprise privatization program  targeting substantial reduction of remaining State
shareholdings in enterprises over the 1995-1997 period;
*  a strong program for curtailment and reduction of enterprise losses, and further improvement
of the bankruptcy and mortgage legislation;



- Hi -
* radical improvement in bank governance in the context of a bank privatization program
aimed at privatizing all remaining State-owned banks by end- 1997; and
*  comprehensive regulatory development in the banking sector.
v.    Thus, the EFSAL aimed at assisting Hungary to finalize its enterprise and banking reforms and
successfully conclude an advanced and critical stage of the transformation of its economy. It supported
an accelerated program of enterprise privatization, including the privatization of large utilities, which
achieved unprecedented results and generated substantial demonstration effects throughout the region.
The loan also supported the rapid curtailment of enterprise losses to help free resources for investments of
much higher returns. It supported a program of privatization of State-owned banks and of regulatory
development in the banking sector designed to preserve financial discipline and to ensure that scares
resources are effectively allocated to the most dynamic enterprises.
vi.    Subsequently, the Government also implemented a major overhaul of public finances, which was
supported by an FY98 Public Sector Adjustment Loan which helped advance major reform of the pension
system.
Implementation Experience and Results
vii.   The EFSAL was designed as a two tranche operation of US$225 million. The loan became
effective as expected following signature of the Loan Agreement in May 1997, at which time the first
tranche of US$112.5 million was released. The second tranche of US$112.5 million was released 12
months later, as planned. By that time, the Government had exceeded most of the targets set as the
conditions of the second tranche release.  Overall macroeconomic performance had improved
substantially and progress in implementing the enterprise and financial sector reform programs had gone
well beyond expectations. The implementation record of the borrower was highly satisfactory.
viii.   The program contained a large number of targets all of which were surpassed with the exception
of three second tranche conditions relating to banking sector, which were not met in their entirety. In
light of the overall impressive progress that had been made in implementing the entire program, waivers
were given for these conditions (para 26).
ix.    The most important factor leading to the speedy implementation of the EFSAL was the broad
political consensus achieved in Hungary about the direction and pace of the reforms, and the commitment
of the Government to implementation of this comprehensive reform program. Hungary's goal of
becoming a full-fledged member of the EIU strengthened the Government's resolve to implement the
reforms and to align its regulations with the EU requirements and the commitments entailed in OECD
membership. The program was well designed and most of the legislation critical for its successful
implementation was adopted in the early stage of the program, prior to the effectiveness of the loan.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
x.     Hungary has made substantial progress in implementing a broad-based enterprise privatization
program even when compared to some EU member countries. The Government has successfully
privatized the majority of State-owned enterprises including a large share of enterprises in the
telecommunications and energy sectors. Most major banks have been privatized to reputable international
strategic investors, who have contributed t:o boosting competition and modernizing banking services.
Today, foreign intermediaries own 60 percent of the banks' capital.  Financial sector legislation
substantially meets international standards. The enterprise and banking sector reforms are irreversible.
The authorities are intent on meeting EU accession requirements, and are very likely to continue their



- iv -
efforts to upgrade Hungary's legislative and institutional framework to meet the challenges of an
integrated European market.
xi.    A CAS (Report No. 17257-HU) dated December 23, 1997 was discussed by the Board on
January 27, 1998. The primary objectives of the Bank's current assistance strategy are to help Hungary
sustain its economic recovery and to support the country's efforts to join the EU. To this end, the Bank
has focused on helping Hungary to finalize the public sector reforms initiated in 1995 primarily in
pension and health and municipal development, to strengthen institutions and markets in key EU-related
sectors, to enhance social cohesion, and to protect the environment. The Bank is continuing its dialogue
on the financial sector through regular exchanges of view and as part of ongoing work on a new CEM and
the Sub-National Development Program.
xii.   Some of the main lessons that can be drawn from the preparation and implementation of the
EFSAL are summarized below:
* Ownership of the Program. Borrower ownership of the program, commitment to its
objectives, and the drive for results are particularly critical to the successful implementation
of an ambitious structural reform program. The Government of Hungary exerted a major
effort in designing the stabilization and structural reform programs. It implemented these in-
depth reforms with resolve and determination. The close co-operation and mutual trust
between the Bank and the Government was instrumental in ensuring the quality of the design
and the effective implementation of the EFSAL. According to the Borrower, this was as
important as the formal covenants, targets and benchmarks provided for under the loan.
* Up-front Actions. It was determined from the beginning that a core set of up-front actions,
including the adoption of major new legislation, was essential to ensuring effective
implementation and sustainability of the objectives of the program. Insistence on this
principle extended the period preceding Board presentation. However, this period was used
very effectively to refine the program, gain political support at the highest levels in the
country, and advance the implementation of privatization of banks and enterprises. Bank
experience shows that when adoption of important legislation is postponed until second
tranche release, this often substantially delays release of this tranche or generates requests
from borrowers for the Bank to waive such conditionality.
i Role of Strategic Investors. From the outset of the privatization program, the Hungarian
authorities were determined to sell the State-owned enterprises and banks to strategic owners
who could bring in the necessary capital and know-how and provide appropriate governance.
This approach has been vindicated both by the negative experience of Posta Bank, which had
a very dispersed ownership, and the positive impact of strategic foreign direct investment in
Hungary on restructuring banks and enterprises and on economic growth.
* Banking Supervision. While putting in place a modern regulatory and supervisory framework
is crucial to reform of the financial sector, the framework by itself does not guarantee
effective financial sector supervision. Whereas, political independence and strong regulatory
and supervisory powers can be provided relatively rapidly through the passage of appropriate
legislation, the development of supervisory skills, culture, and confidence is a more longer-
term undertaking requiring resolve and persistence.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4141-HU)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Background and Loan Objectives
1.    The Government of Hungary launched in 1990 a set of significant economic reforms aimed at
establishing a market economy. However, the authorities did not respond appropriately to the emergence
of internal and external disequilibria, as indicated by the increase of the General Government deficit to
8.3 percent of GDP and of the current account deficit to about US$4.0 billion (9.5 percent of GDP) in
1994. They also did not push forward with deeper structural reforms.
2.    The first years of the transition proved challenging to most Hungarian enterprises because of the
sharp contraction of their traditional CMEA markets, the opening of the Hungarian economy to imports,
and a substantial reduction of production subsidies. Large numbers of enterprises experienced difficulties
in adapting to the more competitive environment, as indicated by a very large increase in gross enterprise
losses, from 0.6 percent of GDP in 1988, to a peak of 14.2 percent of GDP in 1992, the year during which
practically all subsectors reported losses. Losses declined in the following years but still amounted to
about 7.0 percent of GDP in 1994, indicating that budget constraints had not been sufficiently tightened,
and that many inefficient enterprises remained.
3.    The slow response of enterprises to the more competitive environment was also a reflection of the
slow pace of privatization of State-owned enterprises. Between 1990 and mid-1995, total divestitures
amounted to 35 percent of initial State equity holdings, in part because of the policy of retaining
substantial State ownership in the large energy and infrastructure enterprises and because of the statutory
limits on such privatizations.
4.    The persistence of large enterprise losses was also partly due to the absence of an efficient
mechanism for loss resolution. A tough bankruptcy law took effect on January 1, 1992, and was amended
in September 1993 to remedy deficiencies noted in the first 18 months of practice. However, the
bankruptcy and liquidation framework was not fully effective, especially in the resolution of large
enterprises, and required improvement in the incentives for firms to file for bankruptcy, for banks and
other creditors to file for liquidation, and for liquidators to speed up the completion of liquidation
procedures. A debtor conciliation scheme, which aimed at achieving out-of-court resolution of enterprise
debts to banks and State creditors was not appropriately designed and was restricted to a limited set of
enterprises. It therefore did not resolve the issue of loss-making enterprises and contributed to softening
of the budget constraint. The Government terminated this scheme in June 1995.
5.    In the banking sector, the reforms were also largely unfinished. After a series of recapitalizations
in 1991 and 1992, the Government concluded in mid-1993 that eight banks, including the Hungarian
Credit Bank (MHB), the Commercial and Credit Bank (K&H), and Budapest Bank, were still technically
insolvent, and that their financial situation was deteriorating further. It executed a plan to recapitalize
these banks, first to a 0 percent Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) in December 1993, and additionally to an
8 percent CAR in December 1994. The capital injection was effected through the issue of 20-year bonds
amounting to HUF 165 billion, raising the total stock of recapitalization bonds to around HUF 330



-2-
billion, or more than 7 percent of 1994 GDP. MHB and K&H received the largest share of these bonds
because more than 50 percent of their assets were estimated to be non-performing.
6.     Despite this substantial financial support, the Government's ability to reform the banks was
seriously impaired by weak governance (both by the State owners and at the bank level), and by the
fragmentation and deficiency of the supervisory and regulatory framework. Therefore, the series of bank
recapitalizations were implemented at great cost to the budget, but without the governance and regulatory
framework essential to impel the banks to increase efficiency and deal more aggressively with troubled
debtors.
7.    In March 1995, the Hungarian Government's new economic team announced a set of stabilization
measures aimed at forestalling a pending crisis by reducing macroeconomic disequilibria and preparing
tlhe stage for more fundamental reforms. The stabilization package included substantial cuts in fiscal
expenditures, increases in fiscal revenues, a 9 percent devaluation of the Forint, followed by a pre-
announced crawling peg, and a strict wage policy.  These measures contributed to a significant
improvement in Hungary's external position, as indicated by a reduction in the current account deficit to
about US$2.5 billion in 1995 (5.7 percent of GDP). The Government's resolve to consolidate the
stabilization efforts was clearly reflected in the implementation of the 1996 Central Government budget.
T'his budget resulted in a significant contraction in the General Government deficit, from around 6.7
percent of GDP in 1995 to about 4.0 percent of GDP in 1996, and decline in Hungary's current account
deficit to around US$1.8 billion (4.1 percent of GDP), or very close to its long-run target. The
Government's stabilization program was supported by an IMF Stand-by, which was approved in March
1996 and was centered on key reforms of public finances.
8.    The stabilization efforts were accompanied by an invigoration of structural reforms. A new
privatization law was adopted in mid-1995 which radically contracted the previously mandated minimum
State shareholdings in specified enterprises. This was accompanied by acceleration of privatization of
State-owned banks and enterprises. These efforts resulted, in the second half of 1995, in exceptionally
successful privatization of large utilities and transfer to private investors of two of the large State-owned
banks. Due to these sales, foreign direct investment in 1995 increased to more than US$4.4 billion (10.1
percent of GDP). Privatization proceeds were used to substantially reduce the stock of Hungary's
external debt.
9.     The EFSAL supported the Government's 1995-1997 enterprise and banking sector reform
program. The main elements of the EFSAL program included:
*  an enterprise privatization program  targeting substantial reduction of remaining State
shareholdings in enterprises over the 1995-1997 period;
*  a strong program for curtailment and reduction of enterprise losses, and further improvement
of the bankruptcy and mortgage legislation;
*  radical improvement in bank governance in the context of a bank privatization program
aimed at privatizing all remaining State-owned banks by end-1997; and
*  comprehensive regulatory development in the banking sector.
10.    Thus, the EFSAL aimed at assisting Hungary to finalize its enterprise and banking reforms and
successfully conclude an advanced and critical stage of the transformation of its economy. It supported
an accelerated program of enterprise privatization, including the privatization of large utilities, which
achieved unprecedented results and generated substantial demonstration effects throughout the region.



- 3 -
The loan also supported the rapid curtailment of enterprise losses to help free resources for investments of
much higher returns. It supported a program of privatization of State-owned banks and of regulatory
development in the banking sector designed to preserve financial discipline and to ensure that scares
resources are effectively allocated to the most dynamic enterprises.
IL.    Subsequently, the Government also implemented a major overhaul of public finances, which was
supported by an FY98 Public Sector Adjustment Loan which supported major reform of the pension
system.
B.     Achievement of Objectives
12.    Hungary's progress in carrying out the reform  program  supported by the EFSAL exceeded
expectations, and fully met the most important aspects of the EFSAL objectives.
13.    Enterprise Privatization. The 1995 privatization law gave the responsibility for privatization to
the State Privatization Agency (APVRt)1, which very successfully implemented the privatization
program. As of December 1998, APVRt had divested HUF 900 billion in State assets, as compared to
the EFSAL second tranche target of HUF 550 billion.2 In addition, about HUF 149 billion in State assets
were transferred to municipalities and the social security funds.3
14.    In achieving the above global target, APVRt divested more than 90 percent of its initial minority
shareholdings in large enterprises (a total of about HUF 333 billion) by December 1998, as compared to
the 25 percent target which had been agreed under the EFSAL. It also fully divested its initial minority
holdings in all 174 small and medium enterprises (a total of about HUF 7 billion). It reduced its majority
holdings to minority holdings (full divestiture in most cases) in 216 out of 259 small and medium
enterprises (representing more than 90 percent of all its shares in all such enterprises).
15.    The most impressive results in privatization were achieved in divestiture of State majority
shareholdings in large enterprises. As a result of these divestitures, APVRt now holds about 5 percent of
the shares in electricity distribution companies; about 25-30 percent shares in two power plants; and 25
percent plus one share of the Hungarian Oil Company (MOL), following successful floatation of these
companies at home and abroad. At the end of 1998, only two large majority-owned enterprises remained
to be sold: Antena Hungaria and MVM. In both cases there are specific market and regulatory
considerations delaying the sale (e.g. further energy price adjustments to provide an 8 percent return on
equity on the MVM group plus the cost of closing down the nuclear plant).
16.    In the course 1999, APVRt plans to sell its remaining minority stakes in MATAV, BorsodChem,
Hungaropharma, and electricity supply companies, as well as small stakes in several other companies. In
1999, APVRt expects to divest equity holdings of about HUF 50-70 billion.4 As asset management
function for the long-term State holdings is becoming a more important area of activity,APVRt expects
to introduce a law for asset management during the second half of 1999. APVRt is currently reviewing
W Which was created by the merger of the State Property Agency (AVU) and the State Holding Company (AVRt).
2 Excluding shares transferred to the social security funds and municipalities.
3Currently, APVRt still has HUF 278 billion in State equity holdings to be divested. The long-term State assets holdings, as
mandated by law (including inter alia assets such as the national forests and the nuclear plant), are estimated to total to about
HUF 303 billion. The initial APVRt equity holdings to be privatized was about HUF 1262 billion. This amount was increased
due to subsequent revisions of the privatization law which reduced the mandated long-term State ownership in enterprises.
4   Expected revenue of about HUF 100-120 million, mainly from divestiture of the remaining shares of MATAV.



-4-
options to separate into two agencies: one for asset management and divestiture/privatization and the
other for managing outstanding claims.5
1,7.    Curtailment of Losses. The authorities have also maintained the policies which were set to ensure
that State-owned enterprises are submitted to a tight budget constraint. APVRt provided only 0.2 percent
of GDP in financial support to enterprises in its portfolio in 1997, as compared to the 0.3 percent of GDP
cap agreed under the EFSAL, and has not undertaken any further borrowings.6 As agreed under the
EFSAL, the 1997 budgetary transfers to enterprises (excluding railways and agriculture enterprises) were
0.4 percent of GDP and new loan guarantees did not exceed 2 percent of the total State budget.' In 1998,
the budgetary transfers and guarantees were further reduced to 0.3 percent of GDP and I percent of the
total State budget respectively.
18.    Bankruptcy and Mortgage Legislation.  On April 22, 1997, Parliament adopted the agreed
amendments to the Bankruptcy Code which improved the efficiency of insolvency proceeding. This
followed the adoption by Parliament in April 1996 of the amendment to the Civil Code which established
a harmonized and unified framework for mortgages on movables and provided for the creation of a
registry of such pledges.
19.    Bank Privatization. By Board presentation of the EFSAL, the Government had already privatized
the majority position in four large banks: the Foreign Trade Bank, National Savings Bank (OTP),
Budapest Bank and Hungarian Credit Bank (MHB). It had elaborated a strategy for privatizing the
remaining viable banks and for liquidation or merger of several small banks. During 1997, privatization
in the banking sector was practically completed through the sale of K&H to Kredietbank of Belgium and
Irish Life Insurance, Takarekbank to Deutsche Genossenschaftsbank, Mezobank to Erste Bank of Austria,
and PK Bank to a consortium led by Atlasz ][nsurance.8 The new investors have increased the capital of
the banks, downsized staff, modernized procedures and expanded the banks' product lines. Iparbank was
liquidated. Konzumbank and Corvinbank were bought by MFB. The two banks were merged and are
now being offered for sale. The privatization law provides that MFB and Eximbank remain State-owned.
20.    Regulatory and Supervisory Framework. In late 1996, Parliament adopted a new banking law
which: defines the role, responsibilities, and required qualifications of bank management and supervisory
boards; assigns the full responsibility for issuing prudential regulations to the Government and the MoF,
and for prudential supervision to a new supervisory agency, the State Banking and Capital Market
Supervision (APTF); strengthens the bank supervisor's enforcement powers; provides a mechanism for
temporary intervention of problem banks and defines the responsibility for managing bank resolutions;
and provides an improved framework for bank regulation on a consolidated basis.
21.    Regulations defining the format and contents of external audit reports for banks, the valuation of
risk assets, reporting and valuation requirements of investments in securities, acceptability and valuation
5   These are claims of claims against privatization revenues, mainly by the municipalities but also include environmental
liabilities.
6   This cap was therefore substantially respected, even though some asset swaps undertaken by APVRt were quasi-financial
transfers (e.g. when marketable enterprise shares were swapped to Posta Bank by APVRt for less liquid real estate
investments).
7   Budgetary transfers to enterprises amounted to about 1.2 percent of GDP in 1997 including subsidies to agriculture and
railways.
8   Subsequently, in 1998, following its recapitalization, Postabank became fully Government owned. The bank will be
privatized in maximum three years.



- 5 -
of collateral, and accounting have been adopted. A decree on reporting requirements and valuation of
debt restructuring by banks has been drafted and is awaiting issuance by MoF. A draft decree is currently
being prepared on managing credit and market risks and is expected to be issued during the first half of
1999.
22.   A number of major steps have been taken to improve bank supervision. APTF has made progress
in implementing the Supervisory Strategy, Examination Program and Institutional Development Plan
(IDP) adopted in July 1997. Off-site monitoring and on-site examination policies, procedures, and
manuals have been developed. Basic methodologies for consolidated supervision are currently being
tested. In 1998, APTF conducted 20 full examinations at Hungarian banks including that of the OTP, the
largest bank in the country. Staff skills have improved following implementation of an extensive training
program, cooperation with teams of experts provided through bilateral assistance, and strengthened
relations with other supervisory agencies. APTF currently serves as the secretariat for the regional
association of bank supervisors.
23.    Recent events in the financial sector have revealed underlying weaknesses in supervisory
framework. The most prominent of these was the failure and subsequent takeover of Postabank by the
Government. Postabank was established as a private bank in 1988, and remained majority privately
owned until its major recapitalization by the State during the past year. Therefore, the bank was not, in
the strict sense, covered under the EFSAL program. The bank's serious problems began in early 1997,
when rumors of its insolvency led to a run on deposits from February 27 to March 3, 1997. In the wake
of this run, NBH temporarily relaxed Postabank's reserve requirements and the Government issued a
HUF 12 billion guarantee on Postabank's assets, conditional on a counter guarantee by the bank's owners.
Subsequently, marketable enterprise shares were swapped by APVRt for less liquid Postabank real estate
investments. Despite this support, Postabank's management failed to stabilize the bank's operations. In
June 1998, the new Government replaced the management and initiated a major restructuring of the bank
with a total support by the State of about HUF 150 billion. By law, the State will have to divest its
current equity holding in Postabank (which now represents nearly 100 percent ownership of the bank)
within three years from the date of the recapitalization.
24.   The problems with Postabank led to a reexamination of the regulations and supervisory tools
available for dealing with problem banks, as well as a review of the conduct of APFT in this case. The
supervisory authority blamed the delay in intervention in Postabank on the inadequacy of the legal
framework which places the burden of proof on the supervisors, authorizes intervention in a bank based
on the results of external audits but not the supervisory examination, and does not provide preemptive
powers to the supervisory agency. The Government's review confirmed that the supervisors acted within
the prescriptions of the law but that they could have pursued remedy of the problem more proactively. In
late-February/early-March this year, a new APFT management team was appointed. They have accorded
high priority to further development of APFT's early warning system and to more concentration on the
most risky institutions and instruments in the financial system. In parallel, the authorities are in the
process of revising the legal framework with a view to strengthening APFT's powers and further
consolidation of financial sector supervision in Hungary.
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
25.   Implementation Record. The EFSAL was designed as a two tranche operation of US$225
million. The loan became effective as expected following signature of the Loan Agreement in May 1997,
at which time the first tranche of US$112.5 million was released. The second tranche of US$112.5
million was released 12 months later, as planned. By that time, the Government had exceeded most of the
targets set as the conditions of the second tranche release. Overall macroeconomic performance had



- 6 -
improved substantially and progress in implementing the enterprise and financial sector reform programs
had gone well beyond expectations. The implementation record of the borrower was highly satisfactory.
26.   Three conditions relating to banking reform were not met in their entirety. But in light of the
overall impressive progress that had been made in implementing the entire program, waivers were given
for the following conditions:
(i) Loan Agreement Schedule 3 para 4(c).  This condition incorporated several elements
pertaining to the bank privatization program. At the time of second tranche release, all elements
of this condition were fully met with the exception of the adoption by Hungarian Investment and
Development Bank (MFB) of a satisfactory privatization plan for its non-development banking
activities. At the time of second tranche release, MFB had separated its core and non-core
activities. Since then, a privatization plan for some of the non-development banking subsidiaries
has been adopted. As a first step, privatization of Konzumbank, one of these subsidiaries, is in
process.
(ii) Loan Agreement Schedule 3 para 6. This condition pertained to enactment of regulations
establishing the legal framework for rationalization, regulation and supervision of the savings
cooperatives. There are 243 savings and 8 credit cooperatives representing less than 5 percent of
total banking assets in Hungary. At the time of second tranche release, it was jointly assessed
that the 1996 banking law as amended in 1997, following Board presentation, provided an
adequate but not optimal general regulatory framework for the savings cooperatives. At the same
time an agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank on the scope and
substance of an anticipated new law for savings cooperatives. It was therefore agreed that such
regulation were no longer on the critical path for reform of this sub-sector and the related
condition was no longer essential lto the attainment of the objectives of the EFSAL. The
Government has nevertheless prepared a new draft law which is expected to be adopted by mid-
1999.
(iii) Loan Agreement Schedule 3 para 7. This condition pertained to adoption of a series of
regulations by the Government with the objective of improving bank regulation and supervision.
At the time of the second tranche release, the majority of these regulations were in force. There
were, however, three regulations which were not yet adopted. In view of progress achieved by
second tranche release, and Government assurances on the scope and substance of the remaining
regulations, this condition was waived.  The remaining conditions included adoption of
regulations for: (i) reporting requirements on interest capitalization. A regulation to this effect
has been adopted; (ii) valuation of debt restructuring. A draft decree has been compiled; and (iii)
rules defining the standards for credit and market risk management and appraisal of collateral.
This has been handled under two separate regulations. A regulation on acceptability and
appraisal of collateral has already been adopted. A regulation on rules for credit and market risk
management is under preparation and is expected to be adopted by mid- 1999.
27.   Major Factors Affecting the Operation.  The most important factor leading to the speedy
implementation of the EFSAL was the broad political consensus achieved in Hungary about the direction
and pace of the reforms, and the commitment of the Government to implementation of this
comprehensive reform program. Hungary"s goal of becoming a full-fledged member of the EU
strengthened the Government's resolve to implement the reforms and to align its regulations with the EU
requirements and the commitments entailed in OECD membership. The program was well designed and
most of the legislation critical for successf'ul implementation was adopted in the early stage of the
program, prior to the effectiveness of the loan.



- 7 -
28.   Another important factor was the success achieved by Hungary in attracting foreign direct
investment (FDI). Hungary decided, as early as in late 1 980s, to open up its economy to foreign investors
based on the belief that benefits of FDI far outweighed the risks associated with opening up the market to
foreign investors. The record to date shows that FDI has had a major positive impact on both the
enterprise and the banking sectors which have benefited not only from a major inflow of long-term capital
but also from substantial transfer of know-how. FDI flows to Hungary have been one of the highest in
Central Europe and to date amount to over US$16 billion.
D.    Project Sustainability
29.    Hungary has made substantial progress in implementing a broad-based enterprise privatization
program even when compared to some EU member countries. The Government has successfully
privatized the majority of State-owned enterprises including a large share of enterprises in the
telecommunications and energy sectors. Most major banks have been privatized to reputable international
strategic investors, who have contributed to boosting competition and modernizing banking services.
Today, foreign intermediaries own 60 percent of the banks' capital.  Financial sector legislation
substantially meets international standards. The enterprise and banking sector reforms are irreversible.
The authorities are intent on meeting EU accession requirements, and are very likely to continue their
efforts to upgrade Hungary's legislative and institutional framework to meet the challenges of an
integrated European market.
E.    Bank Performance
30.    The Bank played a key role in the design and implementation of the EFSAL program. During
preparation of the operation, the Bank was able to mobilize a team of skilled professionals who worked
closely with the authorities in reviewing policy and technical options. To ensure consistency of approach,
the Bank team coordinated its efforts with the IMF and several bilateral donors. The preparation of the
loan took over three years and involved significant costs. However, the substantial time and resources
devoted to preparation of the EFSAL resulted in the development of a robust program of reforms which
was heavily front-loaded. The solid preparatory effort contributed greatly to the rapid and successful
implementation of the reform program. The high level of performance continued through supervision.
The operation won recognition for its excellence in quality-at-entry following a review by the Quality
Assurance Group of over 1 00 operations in 1998.
F.    Borrower Performance
31.   From the beginning the borrower has been committed to the objectives of the EFSAL. The
Borrower has met all the critical contractual covenants on schedule, and exceeded by a large margin key
targets for the privatization of the enterprise and banking sectors. The performance of the borrower during
preparation and implementation of the operation has been outstanding. The high degree of technical
expertise, professionalism, and commitment of the authorities contributed to a high caliber dialogue
during preparation and implementation of the program.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
32.   The overall rating of the operation is highly satisfactory. Hungary has transformed its economy
into a market based private sector dominated system. This has been achieved as a result of parallel
implementation of a strict macroeconomic stabilization program, broad based structural reforms in the
enterprise and banking sectors, and the reform of the public sector. GDP grew by 5 percent during 1998
and is projected to grow by more than 4 percent per annum during 1999-2000.



- 8 -
33.    As a result of the extremely successful broad-based privatization efforts which encompassed the
privatization of large public utilities such as tlhose in power generation and distribution, gas distribution,
and refining, and of continued new private investments, the private sector now accounts for about 80
percent of GDP. In the financial sector, privatization of large State-owned commercial banks has been
implemented in parallel with improvements in the legislative and institutional framework for banking. In
privatizing the banks, Hungary sought foreign strategic investors who brought in strong ownership and
management. This has led to increased competition in the domestic market as evidenced by the diversity
of new products and the reduction in interest rates. The success of the enterprise and financial sector
reforms can also be attributed to Hungary's liberal FDI policies, which led to substantial additional
investment in enterprises as well as in green field operations.
34.    The EFSAL program also supported Hungary's continued legislative and institutional reforms in
the enterprise and financial sectors. Hungary has now developed one of the most advanced legislative
and institutional frameworks in the region for private sector development. Financial sector legislation and
accounting and auditing guidelines and practices are substantially compatible with those of the EU and
international standards. The regulatory and supervisory framework is now being upgraded to reflect the
lessons learned from the Postabank experience and to enhance consolidated supervision.
H.    Future Operations
35.    A CAS (Report No. 17257-HU) dated December 23, 1997 was discussed by the Board on
January 27, 1998. The primary objectives of the Bank's current assistance strategy are to help Hungary
sustain its economic recovery and to support the country's efforts to join the EU. To this end, the Bank
has focused on helping Hungary to finalize the public sector reforms initiated in 1995 primarily in
pension and health and municipal development, to strengthen institutions and markets in key EU-related
sectors, to enhance social cohesion, and to protect the environment. The Bank is continuing its dialogue
on the financial sector through regular exchanges of view and as part of ongoing work on a new CEM and
the Sub-National Development Program.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
36.    Some of the main lessons that can be drawn from the preparation and implementation of the
EFSAL are summarized below:
37.    Ownership of the Program. Borrower ownership of the program, commitment to its objectives,
and the drive for results are particularly critical to the successful implementation of an ambitious
structural reform program. The Government of Hungary exerted a major effort in designing the
stabilization and structural reform programs. It implemented these in-depth reforms with resolve and
determination. The close cooperation and mutual trust between the Bank and the Government was
instrumental in ensuring the quality of the design and the effective implementation of the EFSAL.
According to the Borrower, this was as important as the formal covenants, targets and benchmarks
provided for under the loan.
38.    Up-frontActions. It was determined from the beginning that a core set of up-front actions,
including the adoption of major new legislation, was essential to ensuring effective implementation and
sustainability of the objectives of the program. Insistence on this principle extended the period preceding
Board presentation. However, this period was used very effectively to refine the program, gain political
support at the highest levels in the country, and advance the implementation of privatization of banks and
enterprises. Bank experience shows that when adoption of important legislation is postponed until second
tranche release, this often substantially delays release of this tranche or generates requests from borrowers
for the Bank to waive such conditionality.



- 9 -
39.   Role of Strategic Investors.  From the outset of the privatization program, the Hungarian
authorities were determined to sell the State-owned enterprises and banks to strategic owners who could
bring in the necessary capital and know-how and provide appropriate governance. This approach has
been vindicated both by the negative experience of Posta Bank, which had a very dispersed ownership,
and the positive impact of strategic foreign direct investment in Hungary on restructuring banks and
enterprises and on economic growth.
40.    Banking Supervision. While putting in place a modern regulatory and supervisory framework is
crucial to reform of the financial sector, the framework by itself does not guarantee effective financial
sector supervision. Whereas, political independence and strong regulatory and supervisory powers can be
provided relatively rapidly through the passage of appropriate legislation, the development of supervisory
skills, culture, and confidence is a longer-term undertaking requiring resolve and perseverance.



- 10-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
'Fable 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implennentation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 1]:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial       Partial       Negligible      Not alicable
Macro Policies                     V              n              [
Sector Policies                                   Z n             oZo
Financial Objectives              V/              n               oI
Institutional Development         EI             E,
Physical Objectives                              l               1=1
Poverty Reduction                 [                I             III
Gender Issues                                                     il 0.
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                         IZI 0              I
Public Sector Management                         I                I                III
Private Sector Development         V             L               L
Other (specify)                   L              LI               LI
(continued)



B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
(9')               ~~~~~~(9')                 (9')
V/                                   ~~El
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(9)                      (/)                        (')
Identification                                                I                         III
Preparation Assistance               V 
Appraisal                                                                               [0
Supervision
Hihly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(9')                     (9')                       (9')
Preparation                                                   fl
Implementation                                                LI                        I
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)           L                         L                          L
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(9')            (9')             (9')              (9/)
9              O                L                  a



- 12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose                            Year of approval   Status
Preceding operations
1.  Financial Systems     Investment loan to support institutional  1990       Closed
Modemization Project  development for banking sector and                  6/97
development of the payment system
2.   First Structural     Policy-based loan to support economic     1990       Closed
Adjustment Loan      stabilization and structural reform                  6/91
3.   Second Structural    Policy-based loan to support economic     1991       Closed
Adjustment Loan      stabilization and structural reform                   12/94
4.   Enterprise           Policy-based loan to support              1992       Closed
Restructuring Loan   restructuring and privatization of the                12/93
enterprise sector
Following operations
1.   Public Sector        Policy-based loan to support pension      1998       Ongoing
Adjustment Loan      system reform



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                                    March 1993
Preparation                                                       October 17, 1994
Appraisal                                                         October 27, 1995
Negotiations                                                      September 23, 1996
Letter of Development/Sector Policy                              January 31, 1997
Board Presentation                            January 1997        March 11, 1997
Signing                                       April 1997          April 28, 1997
Effectiveness                                 May 1997            May 30, 1997
First Tranche Release                         May 1997            May 30,1997
Second Tranche Release                        May 1998            May 5, 1998
Loan Closing                                  September 30, 1998   September 30, 1998
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY97   FY98
Appraisal estimate         112.50   112.50
Actual                       0.00  225.00
Actual as % of estimate      0.00  200.00
Date of final disbursement         5/22/98



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Actions Undertaken by Board             Second Tranche (May 1998)                     Status
A. Overall Economic       Agreement on a medium term macroeconomic  Satisfactory compliance with the     This condition has been met.
Performance           framework consistent with the objectives of    macroeconomic framework.
the enterprise and banking reforms.
B. Improving Corporate
Governance
I. Privatization         Adoption by Parliament of a new Privatization
Law which: (i) increases privatizable share of
State holdings by HIJF 475 billion and (ii)
limits long-term majority State ownership to a
select number of enterprises mostly in public
services.
Completion of the establishment of APVRt.
Government approval of APVRt rules for
tenders and auctions.
Adoption by APVRt of a privatization     Divestiture of a cumulative HUF 550   This condition has been met. Targets
program targeting divestiture by APVRt of at   billion in State equity. This will include:    have been surpassed. By end-
least HUF 700 billion in State equity share                                    December 1998, HUF 900 billion
holdings by end-1997. The program will                                         were divested.
target divestiture to a mninority position of all
APVRt's initial majority equity holdings in  Total divestiture of all APVRt's initial  All initial minority holdings in small
enterprises by end- 1997 (except as otherwise   minority holdings in small and medium  and medium enterprises and 90
specified in the privatization law). It will  enterprises (except as otherwise specified   percent of initial minority holdings in
include total divestiture of its initial minority   in the privatization law), and divestiture of  large enteprises has been divested.
holdings in small and medium enterprises, by   at least a 25 percent share of APVRt's total  APVRt has reduced its majority
end-1996 (except as otherwise specified in the  initial minority holdings in large  holdings (full divestiture in most
Table-5                                                                                                                         Page I of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board               Second Tranche (May 1998)                       Status
Privatization (continued)  privatization law), and of at least a 50 percent  enterprises (excluding power generation  cases) in 216 out of 259 Small and
share of APVRt's total initial minority in large  enterprises). Divestiture to a minority  Medium Enterpeises.
enterprises by end-1997. These targets will    position of all APVRt's other holdings in
exclude any transfers to the Social Securities   small and medium enterprises, unless
Funds, other SAMAs, or local goverrnents.    otherwise specified in the privatization
law.
Divestiture of at least HUF 350 billion in State
equity shareholding. This includes:
Privatization of majority ownership of all five
regional gas distribution companies.
Privatization of at least 45 percent of all six  Privatization of majority ownership in  Condition has been met. APVRt
electricity distribution companies.       these electricity distribution enterprises  holds only about 5 percent of the
shares in these companies.
Privatization of over 35 percent of two of the   Divestiture of strategic stakes (25 percent   Condition has been met. APVRt only
seven non-nuclear power generation         plus 1 share) in an additional 2 non-   holds 25-30 percent shares in two
enterprises.                               nuclear power generation enterprises.   power generation enterprises.
Privatization of over 29 percent of MOL    Divestiture of State shareholding in MOL   Condition has been met. APVRt
to minority position.                   holds 25 percent plus one share of
MOL.
Divestiture of MATAV shares to reduce State
ownership in MATAV to 35 percent or less.
2. Tightening              Adoption by Government of a policy         Transfer of privatization revenues to the    This condition has been met.
Constraints in 1996 97  mandating the transfer of privatization   budget in accordance with this policy.
budgets for State      revenues to the State budget, net of operating
Owned Enterprises      costs of APVRt, inherited financial
obligations (including those from AVU and
AVRt), and a pre-defined and limited amount
of support to enterprises in APVRt's portfolio,
subject to strict criteria.
Table-5                                                                                                                               Page 2 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board             Second Tranche (May 1998)                     Status
Tightening Constraints ... Adoption by APVRt of an annual cap on net   Compliance with this cap during 1996 and  This condition has been met. APVRt
(continued)              flow of financial support to enterprises in its   adoption of a 0.3 percent cap in 1997  only provided 0.2 percent of GDP in
portfolio amounting to 0.4% of GDP in 1996.                                    1997.
Financial support subject to the cap will
include payments related to guarantees, cash
infusions, net new lending and any other
financial support. Support by APVRt will be
used to facilitate downsizing or to prepare
enterprises for privatization. Only payments
on guarantees related to the conclusion of
actual privatization transactions will be
excluded from the cap. These include, inter
alia, guarantees on environmental liabilities
and guarantees on the accuracy of financial
statements. Access to these resources will
have to be recommended by the board of
APVRt and, for at least 80% of the total
amount, approved by the Government.
Implementation of a policy under which no  Continued compliance with this policy  This policy continues in effect.
further borrowing will be undertaken by
APVRt.
Adoption by the Government of a 0.4% of  Compliance with the cap and adoption of   This condition has been met. The 0.4
GDP cap on subsidies to enterprises,    the same cap in the 1997 State budget.  percent cap was in effect in 1997.
expenditures with guarantees, and any other                                   This cap was further reduced to 0.3
form of financial support to enterprises                                      percent in 1998.
outside the agriculture.
Reduction of the annual cap on new loan  Compliance with the cap and adoption of   This condition has been met.
guarantees from the State budget, from 3% of  the same cap for 1997.
total State budget expenditures to 2% of total
State budget expenditures in 1996.
Table-5                                                                                                                       Page 3 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board            Second Tranche (May 1998)                    Status
3. Bankruptcy,           Submission to Parliament of proposed    Adoption of the amendments            This Condition has been met.
Liquidation and       amendments of the bankruptcy code to
Mortgage Law         improve efficiency of bankruptcy/liquidation
procedures.
Enactment of revisions to the civil code
relating to pledges and mortgages.
Termination of the Debtor Consolidation
Program.
C. Improving Bank
Governance
1. Privatization and     Privatization of majority ownership of OTP.
Improved Bank
Governance
Privatization of majority ownership of
Budapest Bank.
Submission to the Bank of a Government
policy statement defining banking sector
privatization strategy for remaining State-
owned banks:
*  targeting privatization of all viable State-  Achievement of targets set out in the  All these banks were privatized
owned banks by end of 1997 and      Governmenfs policy statement, including,  before Board presentation.
liquidation of non-viable banks. The  inter alia, appointment of privatization
policy statement will encompass a   advisors and offering of these banks.
timetable of actions to be taken in
privatizing MHB, K&H, Mezobank, and
Takarekbank over 1996 and 1997.
*  excluding any additional fiscal resources   Satisfactory implementation of this policy.  This condition has been met.
to banks, except for strictly limited
Table-5                                                                                                                      Page 4 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board                Second Tranche (May 1998)                         Status
Privatization and               support necessary for conclusion of
Improved Bank                   privatization agreements, or no more than
Governance (continued)          once per bank, for least cost
liquidations/resolutions.
Completion by the Government and MHB and  Unless they are privatized, completion of   Both MHB and K&H have been
K&H of the following pre-privatization     the following actions for remaining       privatized.
actions:                                    majority State-owned large banks:
*  establishment for MHB of a core          0  completion of a thorough review of
profitable bank inter alia through transfer  the quality of risk assets, including the
of all non-bankable clients and             loan and investment portfolio, other
problematic assets and associated           non-operational assets (e.g. real estate
liabilities into a separate work-out entity  in subsidianies), and.Off-balance sheet
(Risk Kft) without financial recourse to    risks.
the core bank.
*   resolution of at least 75 percent of the
assets of Risk Kft.
*   improvement in effectiveness of boards
and management and adoption of new
rules for the banks specifying supervisory
and management board responsibilities,
sanctions, and incentives.
*  adoption of cost reduction programs      *   implementation of cost reduction
including cutback of at least 15 percent of  programs including cutback of at least
current staff.                              an additional 15 percent of the staff in
the banks.
*   adoption of stringent risk minimization  *   report by the MoF on implementation
policies which prohibit lending to          of these policies.
transferred clients, regulate lending to
classified clients of the bank, and limit
Table-5                                                                                                                                  Page 5 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board              Second Tranche (May 1998)                       Status
Privatization and             expansion of new activities, branches,
Improved Bank                 subsidiaries and investments
Governance (continued)
*  adoption of a program for strengthening    *  Report by the MoF on implementation
mnanagement information systems, credit   of this program.
risk and treasury risk management, loan
review, and internal and external audit.
*  adoption of sound capital and liquidity  *  Report by the MoF on implementation
plans for the banks demonstrating         of these capital and liquidity plans.
achievement of a sustainable financial
viability.
Liquidation of lparbank.
Initiation of the the closure/liquidation of
Dunabank
Completion by the Government and          Unless it is privatized, completion by  Mezobank has been privatized.
Mezobank of the following actions:        Mezobank of the following actions:
*  establishment for Mezobank of a core   *  resolution of at least 25 percent of the
bank inter alia through transfer of       adversely classified assets of the core
targeted non-bankable and problemnatic    bank.
assets and associated liabilities into a  *  resolution of at least 35 percent of the
separate work-out entity without financial  assets of the Mezobank work-out
recourse to the core bank.                vehicle.
*  adoption of a strategic plan for Mezobank  *  improvement in effectiveness of
focussing on development of the bank's    boards and management and adoption
core client base and integration of the   of new rules for the core banks
forrnerly separate Mezobank and           specifying supervisory and
Agrobank                                  management board responsibilities%
sanctions, and incentives.
*  adoption of cost reduction programs
Table-5                                                                                                                            Page 6 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board             Second Tranche (May 1998)                     Status
Privatization and                                                      including additional cutback staff as
Improved Bank                                                          necessary.
Governance (continued)                                             *  adoption of stringent risk
minimization policies which prohibit
lending to transferred clients, regulate
lending to classified clients of the core
bank, and limit expansion of new
activities, branches, subsidiaries and
investments.
* adoption of a program for
strengthening management
information systems, credit risk and
treasury risk management, loan
review, and internal and external
audit.
0  adoption of sound capital and
liquidity plans for the core bank
demonstrating achievement of a
sustainable fnancial viability.
Appointment of fmancial/privatization    Adoption by MBFBRt of a satisfactory  2nd tranche release condition was
advisors for MBFBRt.                     privatization plan for its non-development  waived. Core and non-core activities
banking activities.                   have been separated and a
privatization plan for some of the
non-development banking
subsidiaries has been adopted.
Privatization of Konzumbank, one of
these subsidiaries, is in process.
2. Bank Governance        Establishment of satisfactory institutional  Completion of satisfactory operational  Arrangement is satisfactory. APVRt
arrangements in the MoF and APVRt for bank  review of these arrangements.      is exercising the owner's role through
governance and privatization, and of effective                                 the boards of the banks.
institutional arrangements for coordinating
with the supervisory authorities
Tabie-5                                                                                                                         Page 7 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board             Second Tranche (May 1998)                      Status
3. Improving the Legal
and Regulatory
Framework
*  Banking Law      Adoption by Parliament of a new Banking  Establishment of the legal framework for   2nd tranche release condition was
Law which:                               Rationalization of the savings cooperatives  waived. At the time of second
*  defines the role, responsibilities, and                                     tranche release it was agreed that the
required qualifications of bank                                            .1997 amendments to the banking law
management and supervisory boards                                          provided adequate but not optimal
*  assigns the full responsibility for issuing                                 regulatory framework for savings
prudential regulations to the Government                                    cooperatives. A draft law is currently
and the MoF, and for prudential                                            expected to be adopted by end- 1999.
supervision to the new supervisory
agency
*  endows the bank supervisor with full
enforcement powers (including, inter alia,
to apply graduated sanctions and to utilize
regulatory forbearance).
*  provides an effective mechanism for
temporary intervention of problem banks,
and defines the responsibility for
managing bank resolutions.
*  provides an improved framework for
bank regulation on a consolidated basis,
including, inter alia, definition of:
acceptable capital adequacy linked to the
risk profile of the individual banks;
degrees of capital deficiency; bank
insiders and related parties.
*  Accounting       Amendment by the government of Decree
Legislation     181/1991 to introduce mandatory suspension
and reversal of income on classified assets.
Tabie-5                                                                                                                         Page 8 of 9



Actions Undertaken by Board                   Second Tranche (May 1998)                             Status
*   Bank Regulation   Adoption by SBS of regulations which adjust   Issuance of regulations defining the format  2nd tranche release condition was
risk weights used to determine capital         and contents of the external audit reports    waived. Regulations adopted to date
adequacy in line with the BIS standards.       for banks, the valuation of risk assets,    are on: external audit reports;
reporting requirements on interest          valuation of risk assets; reporting
capitalization, reporting and valuation     requirements on interest
requirements on investments in securities,   capitalization; acceptability and
acceptability and valuation of collateral,  valuation of collateral; and appraisal
and accounting and reporting requirements  of collateral. Regulations
and valuation of debt restructuring by      forthcoming are: reporting and
banks and rules defining the standards for   valuation requirements on
credit and market risk management and       investments in securities; debt
appraisal of collateral, all in a manner    restructuring by banks; and rules for
acceptable to the Bank.                    credit and market risk management
and appraisal.
..   ......... .. . .... .....   ... ...............  ... ..  ....  ....   ..   ............ . . .................   ..   .... . .... . .... .... ... .......... ..... .     ..   ...... ..... ...I..... ... ........ ...... ........... .. .........  .. ......................    ...  ......... ........   .................... ._.............
D. Development of Bank    Adoption of legislation establishing and           Completion of a satisfactory review of the   Satisfactory review was concluded at
Supervision              empowering a new supervisory agency with        activities of the newly established         the time of the second tranche release.
the full responsibility for prudential         supervisory agency.
supervision set out in the banking law, and
providing flexibility in compensation of
professional supervisory staff.
Development by the bank supervisory            Satisfactory progress in meeting targets set  Satisfactory review was concluded at
authority of a:                                by the strategy, the examination program    the time of the second tranche release.
and the institutional development plan     However, more recent events with the
*   supervisory strategy;                      including: full scope examination of at     Posta Bank point to the need of not
*   examination program; and                   least 10 banks, completion of credit        only development of the institution
*   institutional development plan for bank    examination methodologies, completion of  but also active enforcement of the
supervision.                              joint review with the Bank of the skills     powers.
and experience of the supervisory staff,
Recruitment of examiners and deployment of   and continued recruitment of examiners
the technical assistance required to support   and maintenance of required technical
implementation of the plan.                    assistance.
Table-5                                                                                                                                             Page 9 of 9



- 23 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not Applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
(Not Applicable)
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
IBRD                               -      225      225           -       225      225
Total                              -      225      225           -       225      225
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs                costs    costs
IBRD                               -      225      225           -       225      225
Total                              -       225     225           -       225      225
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(Not Applicable)



- 24 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Republic of Hungary
Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement    Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
Loan       3.01(a)      9          C                               The Borrower and the Bank shall   There were three waivers
Agreement                                                          from time to time, at the request of provided at the time of the
either party, exchange views on the second tranche release.
progress achieved in carrying out   Please see below under
the Program and the actions     Schedule 3 to the Loan
specified in Schedule 3 to this  Agreement.
Agreement.
Loan       3.01(b)      9          C                               Prior to each such exchange of
Agreement                                                           views, the Borrower shall fumish
to the Bank for its review and
comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Loan       3.01(c)      9          C                               Without limitation upon the
Agreement                                                          provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall, to the
extent possible, exchange views
with the Bank on any proposed
action to be taken by the Borrower
after the disbursement of the Loan
which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives
of the Program, or any action taken
by the Borrower under the
Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Loan       3.02(a)      1          C                                Upon the Bank's request, the
Agreement                                                          Borrower shall
(a) have the Deposit Account
audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.
Loan       3.02(b)      I          C                                (b) fumish to the Bank as soon as
Agreement                                                           available, but in any case not later
than six months after the date of
the Bank's request for such audit, a
certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
Loan       3.02(c)      I          C                                (c) furnish to the Bank such other
Agreement                                                          information concerning the



- 25 -
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement   Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
Deposit Account and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Loan       3.03(a)     9          C       April 30,              By April 30, 1997, the Borrower   This condition was met on
Agreement                                  1997                  shall submit to the Bank for    April 7, 1997 prior to the
comment the proposed revisions of signing date of April 28.
the banking supervision agency's  Per request of the
supervisory strategy, examination   Hungarian authorities, the
program and institutional      Bank did not remove this
development plan.              condition from the Loan
Agreement, since the
Borrower had already
gone through the
necessary legal
ratification of the
Agreement. However,
since the Bank could not
accept a date in the loan
agreement which precedes
the date of signing, the
Bank deferred the date to
April 30.
Loan       3.03(b)     9          C       April 30,   July 31,    By April 30, 1997, unless
Agreement                                  1997       1997       otherwise agreed by the Bank, the
banking supervision agency shall
adopt its revised supervisory
strategy, examination program and
institutional development plan
acceptable to the Bank.
Loan       3.04        9          C                              Before approving any amendments
Agreement                                                         of APVRt.'s tendering rules, the
Borrower shall consult with the
Bank and take into account the
Bank's comments on such
proposed amendment.
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                              The Borrower has taken all actions
Agreement para I                                                  required for the execution of the
privatization program, as agreed by
the Borrower and the Bank.
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                               The Borrower has furnished to the
Agreement para 2 (a)                                              Bank a report, demonstrating to the
satisfaction of the Bank: (i) that
APVRt.'s revenues generated by
enterprise privatization have been
transferred to the Borrower's
budget in accordance with the
policy, agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank; (ii)
APVRt.'s compliance with the cap
on net flow of financial support to
enterprises in its portfolio, as
agreed upon by the Borrower and
the Bank; (iii) that APVRt. Has not



- 26 -
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement   Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
made further borrowings; (iv) the
Borrower's compliance with the
cap on financial support to
enterprises, agreed upon by the
Borrower and the Bank; and (v)
the Borrower's compliance with
the cap on new loan guarantees
from the budget, as agreed upon by
the Borrower and the Bank.
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                              APVRt. Has adopted a cap on net
Agreement para 2 (b)                                             flow of financial support to
enterprises in its portfolio
applicable during 1997, acceptable
to the Bank and the Borrower has
adopted a cap on financial support
to enterprises during 1997, and a
cap on new loan guarantees from
the budget, during 1997, both
acceptable to the Bank.
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                              The Borrower has enacted an
Agreement para 3                                                 amendment to the Bankruptcy
Code to improve the efficiency of
the liquidation proceedings
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                              The Borrower has fumished to the
Agreement para 4 (a)                                              Bank a report demonstrating: (a)
the implementation of the bank
privatization program, agreed upon
by the Borrower and the Bank
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                              (b) compliance with the policy of
Agreement para 4 (b)                                             not extending additional financial
support to banks except for strictly
limited support, necessary for
conclusion of privatization
agreements or for least cost
liquidations or resolutions, but no
more than once per bank;
Loan       Schedule 3  9          CP                             (c) that the pre-privatization  Waiver was granted for
Agreement para 4 (c)                                             actions, agreed upon by the     part of this 2nd tranche
Borrower and the Bank, have been  release condition.
taken in respect of Hungarian
Credit Bank, Commercial and
Credit Bank, Mezobank, and
Hungarian Investment and
Development Bank Ltd.
Loan       Schedule 3  9          C                              The Borrower has furnished a
Agreement para 5                                                  report to the Bank demonstrating
the effectiveness of the
institutional arrangements in the
Borrower's Ministry of Finance
and APVRt. in respect of bank
governance, bank privatization and
coordination with the new banking



- 27 -
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement    Section      Type      Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
supervision authority
Loan       Schedule 3  9           CP                              The Borrower has enacted         Waiver was granted for
Agreement para 6                                                   regulations establishing the legal   2nd tranche release
framework for rationalization,
regulation and supervision of
savings cooperatives
Loan       Schedule 3  9           CP                              Issuance of regulations defining  Waiver was granted for
Agreement para 7                                                   the format and contents of external 2nd tranche release.
audit reports for banks, the
valuation of risk assets, reporting
requirements on interest
capitalization, reporting and
valuation requirements of
investments in securities,
acceptability and valuation of
collateral, and accounting,
reporting requirements and
valuation of debt restructurings by
banks and rules defining the
standards for credit and market risk
management and appraisal of
collateral, all in a manner
acceptable to the Bank
Loan       Schedule 3  9           C                               Completion of a satisfactory
Agreement para 8                                                   review of the initial supervisory
activities of the banking
supervisory agency.
Loan       Schedule 3  9           C                               The Borrower has furnished a
Agreement para 9                                                    report to the Bank, demonstrating
satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the supervisory
strategy, the examination program
and the institutional development
plan for banking supervision,
adopted pursuant to Section
3.03(b) of this Agreement
Covenant types:                                                                             Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                              8. = Indigenous people                   C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds           by categories 1-9                     NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agency                                         12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                         regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                      13. = Other



- 28 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
(Not Applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks   US$           Weeks    US$              Weeks         US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                           309.9      1135.9
Appraisal                                                                           79.9       341.9
Negotiations through Board                                                          19.6        71.0
approval
Supervision                                                                         31.7       116.8
Completion (estimate)         9.0     29.1          10.0    33.1                    10.0        33.1
Total                                                                      451.1      1698.6
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating       Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.         Developm.  Problemss3
Year   Persons Field**                       status       objectives
Through Appraisal
- Identification            3/93     6       11
Preparation                7/93     5       11
9/93    12       19
12/93     4       4
2/94    15       13
10/94     5       8
12/94     7       4
3/95     4        5
7/95    10       15
Appraisal through Board      11/95    11       11
approval*
Supervision*"                 7/97            46
12/97
- Second Tranche Release
(from the field office)
Completion                    2/99     2       ll
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E = Economist                             etc.                              etc.
F = Financial Specialist/Analyst
I = Industrial Specialist
P = PSD-
L = Legal
* Post-appraisal and supervision follow up was performed by Resident Mission staff who were core members of the team.
**Days in the field are provided only for supervision and completion. Mission length is provided for earlier missions.



- 29 -
Appendix A
REVIEW OF THE
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (4141-HU)
The Borrower's Opinion
Background and Objectives
EFSAL supported with a USD 225 M loan the Government's program for improving corporate
governance in the enterprise and banking sector, mainly in the context of further privatization and
strengthening the legislative and regulatory framework.
Implementation, Benefits
After a long preparation period of the loan the implementation of the program went smoothly and the
operation has been all in all very successful. Overall macroeconomic performance and progress in
implementing the enterprise and financial sector privatization   program  have gone far beyond
expectations at the time of the loan appraisal and Board approval. The magnitude of enterprise and bank
privatization, privatization revenues to the state budget exceeded the targets set forth in the EFSAL by
significant margins. In addition, in Hungary the structure of both the enterprise and financial sector has
been transformed through exceptional levels of foreign direct investment, compared to other transition
countries. Introduction of real owners has improved corporate governance and the management impact of
strategic investors has been high. At the same time, regulatory framework and relevant regulatory
agencies have been strengthened.
Relationship with the Bank
Various World Bank loans supported the wide-ranging policy, legislative and institutional reforms which
helped to create much of the foundation of a functioning market economy in    several ways.
Earlier cooperation with the Bank in the context of the Financial System Modernization Project (3191-
HU) helped to establish the basis of a modern legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework for the
financial sector and provide institutional development to financial institutions in the early 1990s and the
Enterprise Reform Loan (3459-HU) supported privatization, commercialization and restructuring of the
state enterprise sector in 1992-93.
In the preparation phase the World Bank has closely cooperated with the Hungarian partners and provided
a lot of useful advice. After signing the loan supervision missions supported the Government in project
implementation. The cooperation has been outstanding all along the operation.
Assessment of Outcome, Lessons Learnt
The EFSAL operation is the very example that in a complex environment strong ownership of the
program, commitment to the objectives and decided actions, a flexible approach to changing
circumstances and addressing new issues are key elements of successful implementation of a major
program.
Budapest, May 1999



