Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4141 HU
Loan Agreement
(Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
April 28, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4141 HU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated April 28, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY  (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated January 31, 1997, 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
enterprise and financial sectors  (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
Page  2
30, 1995, with the modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan  Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.” 
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as 
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
“(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under 
which any further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be 
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of 
the Bank’s Articles of Agreement.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Loan for a 
continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not 
be required to finance 
the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the  Bank determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan 
during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the 
Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or  referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, 
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan 
shall be cancelled.” 
(f)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and
(g)
Sections 9.04 and 9.05 are deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 
(as modified above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Page  3
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional term have the following meanings:
(a)
 “Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement; and
(b)
“APVRt.” means the Hungarian Privatization and State Holding 
Company.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to two hundred twenty five million Dollars ($225,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any 
time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to 
the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
 No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account 
shall have reached the equivalent of $112,500,000, unless the Bank shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:  (i) that the 
macro-economic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the Program 
as determined on the basis of indicators agreed upon by the Borrower and 
the Bank; (ii) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the Program; and (iii) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement have been taken.  If, after said exchange of views, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved 
and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions 
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, 
cancel the unwith-drawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on 
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall, to the extent possible, exchange views 
with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken by the Borrower after 
the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken by the 
Borrower under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
Section 3.03. (a) By April 30, 1997, the Borrower shall submit to 
the Bank for comment the proposed revisions of the banking supervision 
agency’s supervisory strategy, examination program and institutional 
development plan.
(b)
By April 30, 1997, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the 
banking supervision agency shall adopt its revised supervisory strategy, 
examination program and institutional development plan acceptable to the 
Bank.
Section 3.04. Before approving any amendments of APVRt.’s tendering 
rules, the Borrower shall consult with the Bank and take into account the 
Bank’s comments on such proposed amendment.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance, the Deputy State Secretary 
of the Ministry of Finance or the General Manager of the National Bank of 
Hungary of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Bank of Hungary
Department for International
  Development Institutions
Szabadsag ter 8-9
H-1850 Budapest
Republic of Hungary
Cable address:
Telex:
BANKO
22-5755
Budapest
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
By /s/ Laszlo Akar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  6
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
sub-groups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
    -
Alcoholic beverages
121
    -
Tobacco, unmanu-factured, tobacco 
refuse
122
    -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not con-taining tobacco 
substitutes)
525
    -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
    -
Pearls, precious and 
semi-precious stones, unworked or 
worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728.43            -
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems)
971
    -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
Page  7
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); and
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, 
or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.
SCHEDULE 2
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest 
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in such Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in 
which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed 
Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from 
time to time at a rate based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate 
Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described 
in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed 
Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall 
accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until 
final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, 
at a rate equal to the applicable:
Page  8
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for 
six-month deposits in single currency for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding the first 
day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which 
each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest Period;
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the 
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single currency for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed 
Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based on the fixed 
interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions 
thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed 
Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total 
Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the 
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole 
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ 
notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
Page  9
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies 
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, the first such 
installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the last 
such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. 
Each installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if 
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to 
the provisions of said paragraph 1, be payable after March 15, 2011, the 
Borrower shall also pay on said date the aggregate amount of all such 
installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank 
shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such 
Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in
Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has taken all actions required for the execution of 
the privatization program, as agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
2.
(a)
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a report, 
demonstrating to the satisfaction of the Bank: (i) that APVRt.’s revenues 
generated by enterprise privatization have been transferred to the 
Borrower’s budget in accordance with the policy, agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Bank; (ii) APVRt.’s compliance with the cap on net flow 
of financial support to enterprises in its portfolio, as agreed upon by 
the Borrower and the Bank; (iii) that APVRt. has not made further 
borrowings; (iv) the Borrower’s compliance with the cap on financial 
support to enterprises, agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank; and (v) 
the Borrower’s compliance with the cap on new loan guarantees from the 
budget, as agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank.
(b)
APVRt. has adopted a cap on net flow of financial support to 
enterprises in its portfolio applicable during 1997, acceptable to the 
Bank and the Borrower has adopted a cap on financial support to 
enterprises during 1997, and a cap on new loan guarantees from the 
budget, during 1997, both acceptable to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower has enacted an amendment to the Bankruptcy Code to 
improve the efficiency of the liquidation proceedings.
4.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a report demonstrating:  (a) 
the implementation of the bank privatization program, agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Bank; (b) compliance with the policy of not extending 
additional financial support to banks except for strictly limited 
support, necessary for conclusion of privatization agreements or for 
least cost liquidations or resolutions, but no more than once per bank; 
and (c) that the pre-privatization actions, agreed upon by the Borrower 
and the Bank, have been taken in respect of Hungarian Credit Bank, 
Commercial and Credit Bank, Mezobank, and Hungarian Investment and 
Development Bank Ltd.
5.
The Borrower has furnished a report to the Bank demonstrating the 
effectiveness of the institutional arrangements in the Borrower’s 
Page  10
Ministry of Finance and APVRt. in respect of bank governance, bank 
privatization and coordination with the new banking supervision 
authority.
6.
The Borrower has enacted regulations establishing the legal 
framework for rationalization, regulation and supervision of savings 
cooperatives.
7.
Issuance of regulations defining the format and contents of 
external audit reports for banks, the valuation of risk assets, reporting 
requirements on interest capitalization, reporting and valuation 
requirements of investments in securities, acceptability and valuation of 
collateral, and accounting, reporting requirements and valuation of debt 
restructurings by banks and rules defining the standards for credit and 
market risk management and appraisal of collateral, all in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank.
8.
Completion of a satisfactory review of the initial supervisory 
activities of the banking supervisory agency.
9.
The Borrower has furnished a report to the Bank, demonstrating 
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the supervisory strategy, 
the examination program and the institutional development plan for 
banking supervision, adopted pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of this 
Agreement.
