Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 20085
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REIPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(Loan 39570-AR)
April 7,2000
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Current Unit = Argentine Peso
US $1.00 = 1 peso
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APRENDER                                  Apprenticeship Program for the Unemployed
ANSES                                     Administracion Nacional de Seguridad Social/National Administration of Social
Security
ASOMA                                     Program Apoyo Solidario a los Mayores/ Nutrition Program for the Elderly
CAS                                       Country Assistance Strategy
CHAGAS                                    Programa de Control de Enfermedades de Chagasl Program for the Control of
Infectious Diseases
DEP                                       Direcci6n de Evaluacion Presupuestarial Directorate of Budgetary Evaluation
DNPGS                                     Direcci6n Nacional de Programaci6n de Gasto Social! Directorate of Public Social
Expenditures
FOPAR                                     Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n Social! Participatory Social Investment Fund
FORESTAR                                  Program for Creation of Employment through
Reforestation Projects
GDP                                       Gross Domestic Product
GNP                                       Gross National Product
GOA                                       Government of Argentina
IBRD                                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                                       Inter-American Development Bank
INDEC                                     Instituto Nacional de Estadisticay Censos/National Institute of Statistics and Census
MCE                                       Ministerio de Cultura y Educacion/ Ministry of Culture and Education
MIS                                       Management Information System
MOE                                       Ministerio de Economial Ministry of Economy
MOH                                       Ministerio de Salud/Ministry of Health
MTSS                                      Ministerio de Trabajo y Seguridad Social! Ministry of Labor and Social Security
NBI/ UBN                                  Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechasl Unsatisfied Basic Needs
NGO                                       Non-governmental Organization
NUBs                                      Nzcleo de Beneficiarios! Nucleus of Beneficiaries
PAI                                       Programa Ampliado de Inmunizacionl Immunization Program
PEP                                       Programa de Empleo Privado/Private Employment Program
PIU                                       Project Implementation Unit
PRENO                                     Programa de Entrenamiento Ocupacional! Occupational Training Program
PROAS                                     Programa de Asistencia Solidarial Social Assistance Program
PRODESO                                   Programa Participativo de Dessarrollo Social/ Participatory Social Development
Program
PRONAPAS                                  Programa Nacional de Pasantias/National Internship Program
PROSSE                                    Mexico Program of Essential Social Services
PSA                                       Programa Social Agropecuariol Social Program for Agriculture
PSE                                       Plan Social Educativol Social Educational Program
SDS                                       Secretaria de Desarrollo Social! Social Development Secretariat
SIEMPRO                                   Sistema de Informaci6n, Monitoreo, y Evaluaci6n de Programas Socialesl Social
Information, Monitoring, and Evaluation of Targeted Social Programs
TRABAJAR                                  Argentina Public Works Program
UCAF                                      Unidad de Coordinaci6n Administrativo Financiera del Programa Participativo de
Desarrollo Social/Financial and Administrative Unit of PRODESO
UEC                                       Unidad Ejecutora Central! SIEMPRO's Central Unit
Vice President           David de Ferranti
Country Unit Director Myma Alexander
Country Sector Leader Alexandre Abrantes
Task Manager             Polly Jones



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..................................................                                                                                                     HI
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................                                                                                           IV
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND .............................................................................................................................
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .............................................................1.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ..............................................................3
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES .............................................................5
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..............................................................6
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  .............................................................7
BANK PERFORMANCE ..............................................................8
BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..............................................................8
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................................9
LESSONS LEARNED ..............................................................9
CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS .............................................................                                                                10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .............................................................                                                              12
TABLE 2:  RELATED  BANK LOANS ............................................. .                                                          .............. 15
TABLE 3: IBRD PROJECT TIMETABLE .............................................................                                                              16
TABLE 4:  LOAN  DISBURSEMENTS (ESTIMATED  AND  ACTUAL) .............................................................                                        16
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION- PART A .......................... ......................... 1 7
TABLE 5B:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION- PART B ...................................... .............. 18
TABLE 5C:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION- PART C ....................................... ............. 19
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .............................................................                                                     20
TABLE 7A:  PROJECT COSTS .............................................................                                                                     21
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING ............................................................. 22
TABLE  8:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................................. 23
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES- STAFF INPUTS .............................................................                                                        24
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES- MISSION INPUTS .............................................................                                                     25
TABLE  I 1: FEDERAL SPENDING  ON  TARGETED  SOCIAL PROGRAMS .......................................................... 26
TABLE  12:  FOPAR- SUB-PROJECTS FUNDED  BY  TYPE .............................................................                                             27
APPENDIX: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PARTS B AND C: SECRETARIAT FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT .........................................................                                                 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
ii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPCIRT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 39570-AR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Protection Project in Argentina, for
which Loan 39570-AR in the amount of US$152.0 million was approved by the Board on November 21, 1995.
The Legal Agreement was signed on December 5, 1995, and the Loan became effective on December 14, 1995.
Part A of the Loan closed on September 30, 1999. Parts B and C closed on October 31, 1998, and December 31,
1998, respectively. The original closing date of the Loan was June 30, 1998. The final recovery of the special
account took place in November, 1999 and a cancellation of US$27,249.000 is being processed.
The preparation of this ICR was coordinated by Polly Jones. Kimberly Nead prepared the sections
relating to Part A of the Project and Jorge Barrientos prepared the sections relating to Parts B and C. The
Borrower prepared its own evaluation of Project execution for Parts B and C. A report of the main implementing
agency, the Social Development Secretariat, is included in the Appendix. The report is a summary of a longer
document which is available in the Project files.
This ICR is based on the findings of the final supervision/Project compJletion mission which took place in
November 1998 for Part A and in February 1999 for Parts B and C; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports;
interviews with Bank, Project and Government staff; the mid-term review; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and other Project documents. The ICR was reviewed by Myrna Alexander and Hideki Mori.
iii






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 39570-AR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    In late 1994 events outside of Argentina threatened to put a halt to the period of relative prosperity
ushered in by the Convertibility Plan. The Social Protection Project was part of the $1.3 billion provided by the
Bank in emergency assistance.
Project Objectives and Description
ii.    The Project had three objectives: (a) to protect critical social programs, in 1995 and 1996; (b) to help
provide income support to Argentines adversely affected by the economic measures taken in response to the fiscal
crisis, particularly through job loss; and (c) to improve the focus and management of social programs by
promoting transparency and efficiency, participation of civil society and better targeting of social services to the
poor.
iii.   The Project consisted of three components: (A) Protection of Priority Social and Income Support
Programs; (B) a pilot Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR) and (C) ].mprovement of Social
Information, Monitoring and Evaluation, of Social Programs (SIEMPRO). Component A accounted for the bulk
of loan funds ($116 million). Funds in this component were used to: (a) finance a share of the 1995 and 1996
federal budgets for selected social programs; (b) protect the 1995 and 1996 budgets for a larger set of social
programs by requiring that the total expenditures for these programs amounted to no less than US$300 million in
those years; (c) finance a review of public social spending; and (d) finance teclnical assistance and equipment for
the Ministry of Labor. The social programs directly financed by the loan were Plan Social Educativo, and the
employment programs of Aprender, PROAS/PRENO (replaced in 1996 by Trabajar), and Forestar. The
programs whose budgets were also protected, but not directly financed by the loan, were: the Program for Irivate
Employment; ASOMA (a nutrition program for the elderly); the vaccination program; control of endemic
diseases (Chagas); and the Programa Social Agropecuario.
iv.    The objectives of the Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR) were to test a new mechanism for:
(a) channeling financial resources to targeted community-based sub-projects; (b) strengthening social
organizations; and (c) carrying out small-scale investments to address social needs. These objectives were to be
achieved by placing special emphasis on targeting poor communities and vulnerable groups and using
participatory approaches to develop the capacity of such groups to identify suitable projects, mobilize resources
and implement selected projects. Loan funds were used to finance community-based sub-projects (US$20.2
million), and to establish institutional arrangements (US$5.8 million).
v.    The objective of the technical assistance for the Improvement of Social Information, Monitoring and
Evaluation of Social Programs (SIEMPRO) was to develop and disseminate methodologies and systems for
improving the targeting, evaluation and monitoring of national and provincial social programs and to contribute to
the analysis and formulation of social policies. The SIEMPRO component (US$10 million in loan funds) had
four sub-components: (a) enhancement of the availability of social information to improve the targeting, design,
iv



monitoring and evaluation of social programs; (b) establishment of a system of monitoring and evaluation of
targeted social programs; (c) dissemination and transfer of methodologies and systems to national and provincial
agencies; and (d) institutional strengthening and management of the program.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.   For Part A, total expenditures on the protected social programs reached $307 million in 1995 and $359
million in 1996, meeting the conditions set. There were only modest delays in the disbursements related to
budget support. The Ministry of Economy completed a high-quality review of public social spending and the
technical assistance to the Ministry of Labor was carried out, albeit it with substantial delays, in the case of
equipment purchases.
vii.   The achievements of Part B (FOPAR) were considerable. The fund provided a higher than expected
amount of financing for sub-projects since Project management was able to reallocate funds from institutional
development. FOPAR reached 215,000 beneficiaries in six provinces, representing about 45% of the population
with unsatisfied basic needs (UBN) in those provinces. Targeting was highly effective: about 80% of
beneficiaries reached by the program met the poverty criteria. A beneficiary assessment found that almost all
beneficiaries (96%) acknowledged that sub-projects had effectively addressed their needs or solved a pressing
problem, and that the support of FOPAR had been crucial for implementing the sub-projects.
viii.  The achievements of Part C (SIEMPRO) were identified through an assessment of key stakeholders. The
stakeholders found the contributions of SIEMPRO were highly valuable through: (a) the creation of a system for
generating and widely disseminating information about poverty and social indicators; (b) carrying out a social
development survey; (c) fostering the culture of evaluation and transparency which contributed to improved
targeting, management and outcomes of social programs; (d) large scale training on the management and
evaluation of social programs, particularly at the provincial level; and (e) contributing to strengthening the
capability for designing and implementing social sector policies and programs.
Key Lessons Learned
ix.    A key lesson learned is that when there are potential overlaps in mandates and responsibilities (between
the Ministry of Economy and SIEMPRO and between SIEMPRO and the line ministries, for example) they
should be addressed up front and cooperation and coordination should be encouraged through the implementation
arrangements. In relation to Part B (FOPAR), there are five main lessons. One, a cautious and conservative
approach during the initial phase pays off. Two, investing in the management information system pays off.
Three, formulation of a core-beneficiary group increases the chances of participation. Four, because of the
existence of "spill-over" benefits it is necessary to redefine the benefits of social investment funds. Five, project
competition can generate important benefits. In the case of Part C (SIEMPRO), the main lesson is that a
decentralized approach yielded higher benefits.
Sustainability and Future Operations
x.    Part A. The Government increased overall spending on the protected social programs in 1998. Since the
Government continues to improve monitoring, analysis and evaluation of social programs and expenditures, it
seems likely that the institutional strengthening will be sustained after the Project ends; so far, the trend has been
for the principles and skills learned to be extended to other programs, agencies and levels of Government. The
Bank's follow-up operations (Social Protection II and III) provided additional support for Trabajar, one of the
employment programs included in the protected social programs in 1996. In a Special Structural Adjustment
Loan (Ln. 44050-AR) approved November 10, 1999, to help the Argentines deal with another episode of turmoil
in the financial markets, all of the social programs protected under the first Social Protection Project were
v



included on the list of protected programs for the subsequent operation, all but one showing higher levels of
expenditures.
xi.    Parts B and C. FOPAR has given special emphasis to the sustainabilLity of its infrastructure projects and
periodic ex-post evaluations have indicated good results. The sustainability of SIEMPRO's interventions rely
heavily on the training provided to staff from federal and provincial agencies for adopting and establishing
methodologies and practices for designing and evaluating social programs. A follow up operation (Fourth Social
Protection Project, Ln. 43980-AR) approved October 15, 1998, supports the continuation and expansion of both
components.
vi






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTP
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 39570-AR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSAIENT
I.    Project Background
1 .    In 1991, the Govemment of Argentina adopted a bold set of economic reforms. Collectively known as the
Convertibility Plan, these policies were successful in turning the Argentine economy around and reducing poverty. In the
four years following the Plan's introduction, GDP growth, formerly stagnant, averaged 7.7 percent; low inflation replaced
hyperinflation; and the incidence of poverty declined.
2.    In late 1994 events outside of Argentina threatened to put a halt to this period of relative prosperity. A severe
currency crisis in Mexico shook confidence in Latin American financial markets, slowing capital inflows to Argentina to
a trickle. Economic activity decelerated and tax revenues contracted. Unemployment, which had grown somewhat as
economic restructuring took place, surged, reaching 18.9 percent in May 1995.
3.    The Government responded quickly to reestablish a fiscal surplus by raising taxes and revising the originally
approved budget for 1995 downward by 3.6 percent. The Government protected social spending more than other
expenditures under these budget cuts. The Government also assembled a package of emergency financial assistance
totaling US$11 billion. The Social Protection Loan was part of the World Bank's $1.3 billion emergency assistance
package, which also included operations to reform banking and health insurance. The IDB's assistance included a $450
million social sector adjustment loan. The IDB and the Bank worked together closely to ensure that the two loans
complemented one another in operational design and conditions.
II.    Project Objectives and Description
Original Objectives
4.    The World Bank and the Government were concemed that poor financial conditions might require further
reductions in public spending, including social sector programs. Argentina's social saFety net might weaken just as
unemployment and poverty increased the number of households requiring assistance. The limited effectiveness and
efficiency of some social programs -of concern prior to the economic crisis-became more worrisome in the wake of
the anticipated greater social needs and more limited public funds.
5.    In line with these concerns, the Argentina Social Protection Project had three objectives: (a) to protect critical
social programs for the poor and vulnerable in 1995 and 1996; (b) to help provide income support to Argentines adversely
affected by the economic measures taken in response to the fiscal crisis, particularly through job loss; and (c) to improve
the focus and management of social programs by promoting transparency and efficiency, participation of civil society and
better targeting of social services to the poor.
Assessment of Original Objectives
6.    The Project objectives addressed some of Argentina's most pressing needs ancl were consistent with the World
Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on May 4, 1995. The Project directly addressed the
1



second CAS objective - to reduce poverty and to develop human resources. The Project's focus on providing immediate
budget support addressed the government's financial constraints and helped ensure program continuity.
7.    The Project objectives were also consistent with, and complementary to, those of the IDB Social Sector
Adjustment Loan. The IDB operation's key condition required that, in 1995, federal spending meet or exceed 85% of
planned spending (US$1,039 million) for a group of 23 social programs. The main condition of the World Bank Project
required a minimum spending level ($300 million/year) for a subset of these programs.
Original Project Design and Organization
8.    The Project consisted of three components: (a) Protection of Priority Social and Income Support Programs; (b) a
pilot Participatory Social Investrnent Fund (FOPAR); and (c) Improvement of Social Information, Monitoring and
Evaluation of Social Programs (SIEMPRO). The Ministry of Economy was the Bank's Government counterpart for Part
A. The Social Development Secretariat was the Government counterpart for Parts B and C.
Part A - Protection of Priority Social and Income Support Programs
9.    Part A financed a two-year time-slice of the existing budgets for a set of targeted social programs. The use of an
investment loan to provide a fast injection of cash during a financial crisis (rather than opting for an adjustment
operation), while unusual was not unprecedented. A similar Project (Ln. 3912-ME-Program of Essential Social Services)
had been approved by the Bank for Mexico. The Argentina Project took the lessons of this previous Project into account,
with particular emphasis on the importance of identifying up-front social programs for which the Government used
procurement and financial accounting practices acceptable to the Bank.
10.   The bulk of the loan ($116 million) was allocated to Component A. Loan funds were used to: (a) finance a share
of the 1995 and 1996 federal budgets for selected programs in the areas of employment and education; (b) protect the
1995 and 1996 budgets for a larger set of social programs by requiring that the expenditures for the programs amounted
to no less than $300 million in those years; (c) finance a review of public social spending; and (d) provide technical
assistance and equipment for the Ministry of Labor. The social programs which received direct budgetary support in
1995 and 1996 under the loan included the Plan Social Educativo administered by the Ministry of Education (MEC), and
several employment and training programs administered by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MTSS), Aprender,
PROAS/PRENO (replaced in 1996 by Trabajar), and Forestar. The additional programs whose budgets were protected
included the Program for Private Employment, ASOMA (a nutrition program for the elderly), a vaccination program, a
program for the control of infectious diseases (Chagas) and the Social Program for Agriculture/Programa Social
Agropecuario.
Part B - FOPAR
11.   The objectives of FOPAR were to test a new mechanism for (a) channeling financial resources to targeted
community-based sub-projects; (b) strengthening social organizations; and (c) carrying out small-scale investments to
address social needs. These objectives were to be achieved by placing special emphasis on targeting poor communities
and vulnerable groups and using participatory approaches to develop the capacity of such groups to identify suitable
projects, mobilize resources and implement selected projects. Under the FOPAR component, financing was provided for
sub-projects ($20.2 million) as well as for the establishment of institutional arrangements to operate the pilot project
($5.8 million), including technical assistance for promotion and dissemination of FOPAR's program, working with
communities to identify sub-projects, and to carry out the ex-ante appraisal, supervision and ex-post evaluation of sub-
projects.
2



Part C - SIEMPRO
12.   The primary objective of the component was to influence a change in the focus and management of social
programs by promoting transparency, participation of civil society and targeting of seivices to the poor. It was
specifically aimed at developing and disseminating methodologies and systems for improving the targeting, evaluation
and monitoring of national and provincial social programs and to contribute to the analysis and formulation of social
policies. The loan financing of $10 million covered four sub-components: (a) enhancement of the availability of social
information to improve the targeting, design, monitoring and evaluation of social programs; (b) establishment of a system
of monitoring and evaluation of targeted social programs; (c) dissemination and transfer of methodologies and systems to
national and provincial agencies; and (d) institutional strengthening and management of the program.
III.   Implementation Record
Part A
13.   Choosing an investment loan to transfer funds quickly presented challenges. Negotiations between the World
Bank and the Govemment broke down in July 1995 mainly because of difficulties reconciling the need for quick
disbursement and the World Bank's disbursement and procurement procedures. The (lovemment and the Bank resolved
these problems and successfully concluded negotiations in October 1995. In order to iacilitate disbursements and to
avoid potential delays, the number of social programs whose budgets were directly financed by the Project was reduced.
14.   The Project unit in the Ministry of Economy (MOE) provided the Bank with the documentation needed to
approve loan disbursements. The MOE had to rely on the effectiveness and cooperation of the MEC and MTSS, since
their program expenditures were the ones eligible for reimbursement under the loan. The two Ministries had no obvious
incentive to expend the effort required to meet the World Bank's documentation needs because the loan supported their
existing budgets. Nevertheless, both Ministries cooperated well with the MOE. Several questions and issues regarding
the documentation needed to support disbursement requests were sorted out relatively quickly during Project
implementation. The Social Protection Loan disbursed more rapidly and smoothly than the similar operation in Mexico
(PROSSE), but some modest delays were experienced in presenting documentation for 1996. A component which
experienced more serious delays was the technical assistance to the MTSS, mainly the financing for the purchase of
equipment.
Part B - FOPAR
15.   FOPAR provided financing for 806 sub-projects totaling US$29.5million--including financing from the loan,
counterpart resources and contribution of beneficiaries--an amount higher than anticipated because the program was able
to transfer resources from institutional development to sub-projects. A summary of the sub-projects by category is shown
in Table 12 in the Statistical Annex. About one fifth of the total number of sub-projects were for capacity building of
community organizations through technical assistance and training of community leaders. This was in addition to the
capacity building provided for identifying and prioritizing needs, and project formulation and implementation. The rest of
the projects were mainly economic and social infrastructure.
16.   Geographic Coverage and Targeting. FOPAR reached 215,000 beneficiaries in six provinces representing
about 45% of the population with unsatisfied basic needs ("UBNT') in those provinces. This is a remarkable achievement
in terms of coverage of beneficiaries. Although the original target was to reach 10 provinces during the pilot phase,
shortly after start up FOPAR's management decided, with the Bank's concurrence, to focus the efforts on six provinces
and leave the remaining four for a second phase. One of the factors influencing this decision was that the time and effort
required to establish participatory schemes took much longer than anticipated. However, these efforts were more than
compensated by the coverage reached.
3



17.   Targeting was highly effective: about 80% of beneficiaries reached by the program met the poverty criteria. This
outcome exceeded the eligibility criteria adopted at appraisal for selecting poor communities, which was to be part of a
district with at least 40% of the population with UBN. A beneficiary assessment conducted concluded that 75% of the
beneficiaries reached by FOPAR were part of the population with UBN. AdditiQnally, another 5% of beneficiaries which
did not meet the UBN criteria, were classified as poor based on their family income. Considering that FOPAR' s
intervention takes place at the community level rather than the individual level, these figures indicate that the leakage of
Project benefits was minimal. About 54% of beneficiaries were women. The successful targeting resulted from a
combination of mechanisms. First, the geographical areas with the highest incidence of poverty were identified. Second,
ad hoc local councils created by the program assisted in the micro-selection of specific places within the selected areas.
Third, the thoroughness of the ex-ante evaluation for each sub-project ensured the poverty status of potential
beneficiaries.
18.   The beneficiary assessment mentioned earlier also found that almost all beneficiaries (96%) acknowledged that
sub-projects had effectively addressed their needs or solved a pressing problem, and that the support of FOPAR had been
crucial for implementing the sub-projects. Based on ex-post evaluations, FOPAR also had a positive impact in generating
employment, mostly among beneficiaries, during the implementation phase. A total of 5,800 beneficiaries were employed
for an average length of about 80 working days. This implied that, for these sub-projects, in addition to the benefits
generated by the sub-project, about 20% of their total costs were transferred to the communities in the form of income.
FOPAR developed methodologies for assessing the environmental impact of sub-projects, which were applied in the ex-
ante evaluation. In all cases, the environmental impact was minor and relatively easy to control through design changes
and simple control procedures.
19.   While not stated as a specific objective, it had been foreseen at appraisal that FOPAR would test an approach to
support microenterprises, thus contributing to private sector development. Two revolving funds were established, after a
successful international bidding process, with financial intermediaries that provided loans on normal commercial terms.
By the end of the pilot phase, the test was well underway with nearly 1,000 beneficiaries having received loans from the
intermediaries.
Part C - SIEMPRO
20.   A wide range of activities was carried out under this component. A strong focus was placed on generating and
making available, in a user-friendly way, information on social conditions, as well as social programs, and numerous
publications (both electronic and printed) were completed during the Project. The Social Survey - an integrated
household survey with an emphasis on the use of social services - was designed and carried out in cooperation with
INDEC, the National Statistical Institute. The survey broke new ground in Argentina in several aspects, including the
depth of coverage of social services, and it improved the underpinnings for the analysis of poverty and social policy.
Another strategic focus of SIEMPRO was improving the use of evaluations in social programs. Evaluations of several
social programs were completed under the Project (Programa Social Agropecuario, ASOMA, Trabajar, FOPAR).
Although it had been envisaged that SIEMPRO would carry out evaluations for all of the protected programs under Part
A, for some programs this was not accomplished (Plan Social Educativa, for example) because of resistance from the line
ministries. The leverage of the Bank was limited in forcing compliance since none of the protected programs received
money directly from the Project. Also, budget support ended in 1996, while most of the evaluations were carried out
afterwards. In retrospect, it would have been advisable to reach agreement with the Ministries in charge of these
programs on an evaluation managed by SIEMPRO during Project preparation. Nevertheless, the activities of SIEMPRO
increased the exposure and appreciation of social program managers to the importance of evaluation. SIEMPRO also
carried out a program of dissemination of social information and methodologies to staff at both the federal and provincial
levels. Provincial executing units were established in 10 provinces and large-scale training programs were organized in a
variety of topics including social information, evaluation, and social program management.
4



21.   An independent assessment of SIEMPRO's first two years of operation was carried out using semi-structured
interviews of representatives of stakeholder organizations including national and provincial sector ministries and
agencies, NGOs and other external institutions. In general, stakeholders found that contributions were highly valuable
through: (a) the creation of a system for generating, processing and disseminating information about poverty, inequality
and social vulnerability, and social indicators for a wide range of users; (b) carrying out a social survey; (c) fostering the
culture of evaluation and transparency of social programs which contributed to improved targeting, management and
outcomes of social programs; (d) large scale training on management and evaluation of social programs, particularly at
the provincial level; and (e) strengthening the capability for designing and implementing social sector policies and
programs. At the same time, it should be noted that SIEMPRO faced some institutional problems during Project
implementation. Its mandate to analyze poverty and social programs was shared by other public agencies, particularly by
the Ministry of Economy and the Chief Cabinet Office, provoking institutional rivalries. It can be argued that the design
of the Social Protection Project itself contributed to this overlapping of responsibilities btecause it supported work on
social programs in both the Ministry of Economy and SIEMPRO. More effort should have been made to address these
issues of overlapping responsibilities during Project preparation.
22.   Mid-term Review. The Project provided for a mid-term review for Components B and C. In July 1997, a Bank
mission undertook a wide review of both SIEMPRO and FOPAR. As performance was generally satisfactory, the Bank
did not recommend any major redirections. In the case of FOPAR, the main recommendations were to reduce processing
time within the Secretaria de Desarrollo Social to approve sub-project proposals and the related first payment and to
analyze the administrative costs of the program, which though high, were considered acceptable given the pilot nature of
FOPAR. In the case of SIEMPRO, discussions focused on the program for analysis and dissemination of the results of
the Encuesta Social and better dissemination of the results of the evaluations that SIEMPRO had carried out to date.
23.   The Bank agreed to three extensions of the closing date for Part A (from June 1998 to December 31, 1998, then
to May 31, 1999, and then to September 30, 1999) in order to permit the MTSS to purchase equipment, mainly
computers. For Components B and C, initial disbursements were somewhat slower than expected, which caused the
closing date to be extended to October 31, 1998 and to December 31, 1998, respectively.
IV.   Achievement of Original Objectives
Part A
24.   Project activities were successful in meeting their original objectives. As Table 11 shows, federal spending on
protected programs exceeded the target of US$300 million in 1995 and 1996. Spending on the programs directly financed
by the loan also was substantially higher than anticipated. Table 5a shows key monitoring indicators for this component
over the period 1994-1997. In nearly all cases the indicators show that services in these programs were not only
maintained, but increased above 1994 levels.
25.   Institutional development activities within the MTSS made an important contribution to the Ministry's ability to
conduct policy and program analysis and improve employment and training programns. Technical assistance supported
review and analyses of unemployment insurance, labor market reforms, and employment and training programs.
Concrete results included a series of program evaluations and the redesign of those programs based on the findings.
Equally important, the analysis funded by the Project helped the MTSS to develop a more global view on employment
programs and labor policies, and allowed MTSS to work more effectively with the multilateral development banks and
other donors, and to take a more proactive role.
26.   Support for a broad review of social spending and related analyses under the direction of staff in the Ministry of
Economy also achieved significant results. The Directorate of Budget Evaluation in the Ministry of Economy improved
its monitoring of social sector spending and began feeding this information into the budget process. Technical assistance
under Part A supported the completion of program evaluations for the Maternal-Child Program. The Directorate of
5



Public Social Expenditures (DNPGS) implemented a high-quality analysis of social expenditures which resulted in
concrete policy and program changes, including the integration of some small, overlapping social programs.
Part B (FOPAR)
27.   The Project design was appropriate for achieving the objectives of the component. One of the strongest elements
of project design was the adoption from the outset of participatory approaches for working with beneficiaries. FOPAR
established highly effective mechanisms for working with poor beneficiaries in carrying out a diagnosis of their situation,
identifying needs and establishing priorities leading to the formulation of sub-projects. This approach was crucial for
creating an atmosphere of collaboration with beneficiaries, which led to a high degree of ownership through a deep
involvement in the formulation and implementation of sub-projects. Another key aspect of project design was the
methodology for developing in beneficiaries the ability to manage Project implementation and its subsequent operation
whenever warranted.
28.   FOPAR achieved a substantial institutional development during the pilot phase. Its most important achievements
were the development and implementation of approaches and methodologies for carrying out an effective targeting of
resources to beneficiaries, complemented by a rigorous ex-ante evaluation and a close supervision of sub-projects
implemented by beneficiaries. These efforts were supported by the establishment of a highly effective management
information system that enabled the availability of information to control productivity and outcomes on processes (project
cycle control, promotion, ex-ante evaluations, supervision, etc.), manage financial resources and generate a data base of
beneficiaries.
Part C (SIEMPRO)
29.   The design of this technical assistance component was adequate for addressing the issues that motivated the
establishment of SIEMPRO. In three years the program enabled the availability of a more extensive social information
base, contributing to the government's efforts to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of social spending, and to the
stimulation of the demand for information on the social sector in general. It also provided methodologies and trained staff
in key areas such as program evaluation and targeting.
30.    The most salient feature of SIEMPRO's institutional development was the establishment of small agencies in the
provinces. These were key for implementing highly effective technical assistance and training programs for
strengthening the ability of provincial agencies to carry out assessments of social issues, to reevaluate ongoing programs
and to design new interventions. SIEMPRO's provincial agencies also enabled the provision of continuous support to
local agencies, establishing practices and processes for handling social sector issues in a sustainable manner. This
scheme had a high impact since most social programs in Argentina are implemented at the provincial level.
V.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not subject to Government control
31.   Part A. The economic and financial crisis Argentina faced created a sense of urgency regarding loan processing
and implementation. The ministries involved in implementing this component cooperated very well, and some staff
attributed this to the crisis.
32.   Parts B and C. The federal nature of the government structure in Argentina affected the start up of both
components. In early 1996, provincial governments had recently taken office and it took longer than expected to finalize
agreements needed for initiating activities. In the case of FOPAR, it was only by the end of 1996 that agreements had
been finalized with six provincial governors. For similar reasons SIEMPRO had managed to set up only three out of five
provincial agencies by that time.
6



33.   Another factor that affected implementation of sub-projects supported by FOPAR was the extreme weather
conditions that prevailed in the Northern provinces. In particular, during 1998 unusual floods affected four of the six
provinces under the program, causing the reassessment of sub-projects under implementation and delays in reaching their
completion.
Factors subject to Government control
34.   Part A. The Government's strong response to the crisis limited the depth and the length of the budget crunch.
Tax revenues recovered earlier than expected which made it easier for the Government to comply with the main loan
condition to protect spending on the selected social programs.
35.   Parts B and C. Some delays in the yearly approval and availability of budgets affected disbursements for both
components.
Factors subject to Implementing agency control
36.   Part A. The Ministries of Economy and Labor made effective use of the techni~cal assistance provided under the
loan. The level of competence and commitment of the implementing agency's staff allowed for the successful
implementation of the challenging project design.
37.   Parts B and C. During Project execution, empowerment for signing legal documents on behalf of the
Government was only at the level of the Secretary for Social Development, and in the last year also with the Deputy
Secretary. In the case of FOPAR, this was a source of some delays for signing agreements with beneficiaries and for
closing down sub-projects.
VI.   Project Sustainability
38.   Part A. Once the fiscal situation improved, the Government raised its level of budgetary support to the targeted
programs in 1997-1998. The Government has continued to undertake a variety of activities to improve the monitoring,
analysis and evaluation of social programs and expenditures. It seems likely that these institutional changes will be
sustained after the Project ends; so far, the trend has been for the principles and skills learned to be extended to other
programs, agencies and levels of Government. In mid-1998, turmoil in the international financial markets again had an
adverse impact on the Argentine economy. In order to provide financial assistance to help Argentina weather this crisis,
the Board approved on November 10, 1999, a Special Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 44050-AR) in the amount of $2.5
billion and a Special Repurchase Facility Support Loan (Ln. 44060-AR) in the amount of US$505.05 million. Similar to
the Social Protection Project, the conditions included a commitment by the Government to maintain spending on 24 social
programs. All the programs that were protected under the first Social Protection Project are included in the list for the
Special Structural Adjustment Loan and all but one (ASOMA), are programmed to be funded at higher levels than was the
case in 1995-96.
39.   Parts B and C. The sustainability of FOPAR and SIEMPRO are supported by the Social Protection IV Project
(Ln. 43980-AR), which was approved by the Board on October 15, 1998. In addition, FOPAR has given special
emphasis to the sustainability of infrastructure projects. Ex-post evaluations conducted systematically concluded that
80% of infrastructure projects have a high or medium chance of becoming sustainable. In order to ensure sustainability of
sub-projects, where relevant, FOPAR also had as a pre-requisite the firm commitment of municipalities or public service
agencies to maintain and operate works to be constructed. Their continued involvement was followed up during sub-
project implementation and particularly at the time of completion. This was complemented by special training programs
for beneficiaries and technical assistance during start up of the operating phase.
7



40.   The sustainability of SIEMPRO's interventions relied heavily on the training provided to staff from federal and
provincial agencies for adopting and establishing methodologies and practices for designing and evaluating social
programs. In addition, this is complemented with technical assistance and follow up provided by the provincial agencies.
The demand for social sector information stimulated by SIEMPRO is likely to increase.
VII.  Bank Performance
41.   Part A. The performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory. The Bank team processed the loan in a timely
fashion. During loan implementation, when it became apparent that there might be a problem disbursing against
expenditures under the Plan Social Educativo, the Bank agreed to accept modified documentation. The Bank's level of
technical assistance during supervision, especially linked with the public spending review, was of high caliber and
effective.
42.   Parts B and C. Bank performance in Project preparation was highly satisfactory. During preparation activities
the Bank contributed its experience with similar projects in other countries and, where relevant, incorporated consultants
with the required expertise to advise on project design. Bank performance in Project appraisal was also highly
satisfactory, considering that appraisal of FOPAR and SIEMPRO was brought forward by a few months, to June 1995, in
order to consolidate these components under the Social Protection Project. Adequate judgments were made with respect
to the government commitment and both agencies' implementation capacity. For FOPAR, some 20 key performance
indicators (see Table Sb) were originally defined for monitoring and evaluating of sub-project activities and processes.
The indicators were useful for both FOPAR management and Bank supervision. In the case of SIEMPRO, monitoring
was carried out using a detailed program of activities (the SIEMPRO Matrix), which was updated during supervision.
43.   Supervision was satisfactory. Both agencies acknowledged that although there was some lack of continuity in
staff and consultants participating in Bank missions, their contribution improved instruments and methodologies which
lead to better management of both components.
VIII. Borrower Performance
44.   Part A. Borrower performance was satisfactory throughout all phases of the Project. The only exception was the
substantial delays in the case of the computer procurement by MTSS. As already noted, the caliber of the staff involved
in the Project was high. The strong level of commitment contributed to the successful achievement of the Project's
development objectives.
45.   Parts B and C. Performance in Project preparation was highly satisfactory. The quality of technical, social,
financial, and institutional analyses carried out by the Argentine teams was of the highest standards. The management
teams put together by the Secretariat of Social Development were extremely competent and showed an unequivocal
commitment to both components.
46.   Overall, implementation performance was satisfactory. Implementation complied with the loan agreement as well
as with agreements reached during supervision missions. The Financial and Administration Unit (UCAF) provided strong
support of high professional standards to both components in matters related to financial, personnel, legal issues and MIS.
Project implementation progress was reported regularly in well prepared, comprehensive reports. The high quality and
continuity of the management team, and staff in general, was an essential factor for the successful implementation of both
components.
47.   Sub-projects supported by FOPAR were implemented efficiently. The pilot nature of this component, to be
implemented in less than three years, and the extensive use of participatory approaches had led to relatively higher
overheads than other social funds in the LAC region. At appraisal it had been assumed that overheads would amount to
about 28% of the total cost of the pilot program, including initial investments to set up FOPAR. However, this figure
8



included most of the cost associated with capacity building activities related to the initial work done with communities
and to the technical assistance provided during appraisal and implementation. When cost definitions are set in line with
these definitions, actual overheads represent about 16 percent of total costs. In addition, toward the end of the Project,
FOPAR was able to reallocate about $1.7 million in loan funds from institutional development to sub-project financing,
further lowering overhead costs.
48.   Procurement arrangements for the FOPAR component were considerably simplified given the small-scale and
dispersed nature of sub-projects. All procurement was carried out by representatives of beneficiaries responsible for
implementing sub-projects under procedures stipulated in the grant agreement. Th is proved highly effective in lowering
unit costs.
IX.   Assessment of Outcome
49.   Part A. The outcome was satisfactory, and development objectives were achieved. While the design of the
Project presented some challenges, Project implementation went smoothly, thanks to the commitment and competence on
the part of both Bank and Government staff. As noted previously, the budgets of key targeted social programs were
protected; the capacity of the government to implement effective, well-targeted social programs and policies was
demonstrably enhanced; and the chances of these achievements being sustained beyond Project completion are good. As
a summary of the discussion in preceding paragraphs, the overall outcome for the 'SIEMPRO component was satisfactory.
By and large it achieved all major objectives with no shortcomings. However, it completed fewer evaluations than had
been expected and the field work for the Encuesta Social took place nearly a year behind schedule. As a result, when the
SIEMPRO component closed in December 1998, very few of the results of the sunrey had been published. As of the end
of 1999, the data for the survey had been made available and some analysis had been disseminated widely. Also,
institutional conflicts during Project implementation are likely to have lessened the impact that the activities of SIEMPRO
had in some areas.
50.   Parts B and C. Based on the assessments discussed above of all aspects related to Project design,
implementation, and management, the overall outcome of the FOPAR component was highly satisfactory. It achieved or
exceeded all major objectives and its participatory approach can be considered as best practice for social funds.
X.    Lessons Learned
51.   Institutional relationships are important to consider up front in Project preparation and design. When there are
potential overlaps in mandates and responsibilities (between the Ministry of Economy and SIEMPRO, and between
SIEMPRO and the line ministries, for example) an attempt should be made to address them up front and to encourage
cooperation and coordination through the design of the implementation arrangements.
52.   Part B (FOPAR). A cautious and conservative approach during the initial phase is important. During its early
days, FOPAR concentrated on internal institution building, and maintained a cautious attitude concerning sub-project
appraisal and approval. The number of sub-projects approved during the first year was only 55, but by the end of the
second year, FOPAR had accelerated the pace of implementation by 15 times, and approved 751 new sub-projects.
Through its rigid appraisal process, it also established a reputation for adhering to its operational principles, in particular
community participation and transparency (for example, more than 50 percent of the reasons for disapproval were
inadequate participatory measures). This reputation has been effective in buffering the potential for political interference,
and has helped ensure that resources are allocated to areas of greater need or beneficiary-determined priorities.
53.   Investing in the Management Information System pays off. One of the benefits of concentrating on internal
institution building during the initial year materialized as a highly effective management information system (MIS), which
is often considered to be one of the best MIS in a LAC social investment fund. The system was one of the key factors
that enabled the above-mentioned rapid efficiency gain. The technological foundations of the system are modest, but it is
9



unique in its design and implementation process. A private consulting firm carried out a thorough business-process
engineering analysis, working closely with FOPAR staff of all levels, and designed detailed data structure and
information flow models. During system development, MIS staff and users worked side-by-side to help identify and
overcome inefficiencies and weaknesses in operational procedures and organizational structure. This is a textbook
example of good (but often neglected) MIS development applicable for nearly any agency managing a Bank project.
54.   Formulation of core-beneficiary groups increases the chance of participation. FOPAR used an approach similar
to other funds: organizing beneficiaries into core groups (in Argentina, they are called NUBs - Nzucleo de Beneficiarios),
which served as the focal point for sub-project preparation and implementation. This was an effective tool for facilitating
participation by communities and beneficiaries. Although about 60 percent of NUB members had no prior experience in
participating in systematic organizational activities, the experience led to lower unit costs, curbed potential corruption in
sub-project implementation, and fostered flexibility and creativity. Record keeping, procurement and financial
management by the beneficiaries was exceptionally good. Two critical factors to its success were: (a) training of
supervisors to provide on-going technical assistance to beneficiary groups on administering sub-project execution; and (b)
incentives for monitoring by the community.
55.   Existence of "spill-over" benefits of social investment funds. Through field visits during Bank supervision
missions and the ex-post evaluation, it became clear that FOPAR had generated significant "spill-over" benefits,
including the building of empowerment skills (leaming to organize and speak out, belief that the poor can improve their
conditions, confidence in dealing with government officials, banks and other institutions), institutional skills
(identification of needs, planning and budgeting, handling of contracts, financial administration) and the transfer of skills
and experience to other community groups. Such benefits are compelling when witnessed on the ground, but difficult to
capture in statistics, although they may well have a significant and lasting effect on a community or group's ability to
address poverty conditions beyond the actual benefits from the infrastructure or services contained in a sub-project.
56.   Experience of Project Competition. Drawing on the experience of FOSIS, (Social Investment Fund) in Chile,
FOPAR, unlike other social funds, uses project competitions (concursos de proyectos). In accordance with the targeting
criteria of FOPAR, eligible disadvantaged neighborhoods and poor districts were selected, and approximately three
months were needed for communities to identify their needs, form beneficiary groups and formulate sub-projects. A
competition of sub-projects was then advertised with clearly defined rules and evaluating procedures. This approach
added considerable transparency to the actual allocation of resources to specific communities.
57.   Part C - SIEMPRO. A decentralized approach yielded high benefits. Through the course of implementation, it
became evident that one of the most valuable contributions of the program was its technical assistance to the provinces.
This proved to be not only a highly cost effective approach, but it was also critical for reinforcing the government policy
of decentralizing to the provinces the execution of social programs. In addition, at the provincial level, SIEMPRO was
not affected by the institutional rivalries which on occasion hindered its efforts at the federal level.
XI.   Current and Future Operations
58.   Part A. The Bank's follow-up operations in 1997 and 1998 (the Second and Third Social Protection Projects)
focused on providing additional support for the Trabajar program, one of the employment programs included in the
protected social programs in 1996. The Social Protection II Project (Ln. 4195-AR) was approved by the Board on June
20, 1997 for $200 million and the Social Protection III Project (Ln. 4366-AR) was approved by the Board on June 30,
1998 for $284 million. Under Social Protection II and III, improvements in the Trabajar public employment program
were supported in order to increase the scale of activities, improve targeting to poor areas and raise the quality and
relevance of sub-projects financed. An impact evaluation carried out under the Project demonstrated the highly effective
targeting of the program to the poor. The Special Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 44050-AR) and the Special
Repurchase Facility Support (Ln. 44060-AR) approved by the board on November 10, 1999, were described above.
10



59.   Parts B and C. The Fourth Social Protection Project (Ln. 43980-AR) approved by the Board on October 15,
1999, for an amount of $90.75 million supports the continuation and expansion of both FOPAR and SIEMPRO.
11



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCL41 PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 39570-AR)
PART II.      STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Part A- Protection of Social Programs
A. Achievement of Objectives               Substantial      Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                       V/
Institutional Development                  X
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                                            V
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Managment                                    v 
Private Sector Development
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain
V
Highly
C. Bank Performnance                      Satisfactoy     Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance                                     /
Appraisal
Supervision                                     .
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                         Un-           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Satisfactory    unsatisfactory
12



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Part B- FOPAR
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial           Partial        Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroecnomic Policies                                                       .
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Concerns
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                                                                              l
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Management                                  1
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely        Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                               /
Supervision                                                                                           l
D. Borrower Performance                Satisfactory       Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                                                            I
Implementation                          V/
Covenant Compliance                                        V
Highly                                Un-            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory       Satisfactory      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory
13



Table : Summary of Assessments
Part C- SIEMPRO
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial            Partial          Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                                                        9
Sector Policies                                                                               9
Financial Objectives                                                                          9
Institutional Development             /
Physical Objectives                   /
Poverty Reduction                     9
Gender Concerns
Other Social Objectives                                                                       /
Enviromnental Objectives
Public Sector Management                                   9,                                 9
Private Sector Management
B. Project Su stainability             L                   Unlike            Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory         Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                        9
Preparation Assistance                9
Appraisal                            9/
Supervision                                                9
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory         Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                           9
Implementation                                             9
Covenant Compliance                                        9
Highly                                   Un-            Hiy
E. Assessment of Outcome             Satisfactory        Satisfactory       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory
14



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit Title         Purpose          Yr of Approval      Status
Loan 3643-AR     Improve child & maternal      1993        '[n operation
Maternal & Child        health status
Health & Nutrition
Second Maternal &    Improve child & maternal    1997        In operation
Child Health &         health status
Nutrition
Loan 4164-AR
Social Protection II    Provide temporary jobs   1997          Closed
Loan 4195-AR      through construction of
small infrastructure
projects
Social Protection III   Provide temporary jobs   1998        In operation
Loan 4366-AR       through construction of
small infrastructure
projects
Fourth Social      Continue and expand        1998         In operation
Protection Project    FOPAR and SIEMPRO
Loan 4398-AR
Special Structural      Protect social          1998        In operation
Adjustment Loan    expenditures and promote
Loan 4405-AR       improvements in social
programs                         _
1 5



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned  I      Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)    4/17/95    4/17/95
Preparation                            4/24/95           4/24/95
Appraisal                              6/12/95           6/12/95
Negotiations                            7/95             7/95 and 10/03/95
Letter of Development (Social )Policy   10/95            10/10/95
Board Presentation                     8/30/95           11/21/95
Signing                                9/30/95           12/05/95
Effectiveness                           10/30/95         12/14/95
Midterm review (if applicable)         3/31/97           7/07/97
Project Completion                      12/30/97         6/30/99
Loan Closing                           6/30/98           9/30/99
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US $millions)
FY96        FY97       FY98
Appraisal Estimate            80.6         137.5     152
Actual                        85.5         128.0     152
Actual as % of Estimate       106           93       100
Date of Final Disbursement  November, 1999
16



Table 5A: Critical Social Programs and Income Support
Key Monitoring Indicators
1994           1995        1995       1996      1997
Target      Actual
Nutrition (ASOMA proaram)
No. of elderly served by the program                                              167,324    102,913  137,860
Education (Plan Social Educativo)
No. of books and educational materials purchased     1,500,000        220,000   2,290,000   2,500,000 3,900,000
No. of schools constructed/rehabilitated                 1,000           500         637       1,000      911
No. of teachers trained                                 50,000                     65,000     70,000      n.a.
Health (Immunization and Chagas Control programs)
Programa de Immunizaciones
No. of vaccinations administered                                                3,261,400   3,211,756 3,390,703
Programa de Control de Chagas
No. of homes treated                                   137,861        217,000     132,859    109,731   97,718
No. of homes inspected/monitored                       311,000        384,000     337,162    342,245  476,904
Employment                                                            121,500     123,874    227,199      n.a.
No. of Employment Program beneficiaries                                59,500      79,714    154,243      n.a.
No. of Employment Training Program beneficiaries                       62,000      44,160     72,956      n.a.
Rural Poverty (Plan Social Agropecuario)
No. of new subprojects                                                               783         774    1,231
No. of beneficiaries                                                                5,124      8,078    9,678
No. of beneficiaries who received training                             22,000      13,665      6,538    9,947
17



Table 5B: Key Monitoring Indicators/ FOPAR
______________________________   ____(AL 31/V2/1996)               (AL 31/12/997)                        (AL 31/12/1998)
INDICADOR                                                               UNIDAD           Meta      Valor      Diferencia      Meta      Valor      Diferencia      Meta        Valor         Diferencia
PROMOCION
Barrios que presentan proyectos                                    Cant.                      84         84               0                  125                                    125
Barrios con Promocion                                              Cant.                      93         93               0                  142                                    142
Barrios que presentan Proycotos / Barrios con Promoci6n                                      .90         90                        90       88.0            -2.0         90         88.0                -2.0
Localidades que presentaron Proyectos                              Cant.                      20         20               0                   53                                     53
Localidades con Promoci6n                                          Cant.                      20         20               0                   53                                     53
Localidades que presentaron Proyectos / Localidades con promoci6n  %                         100        100               0       90         100             10          90        100.0                10.0
Apoyo a la constituci6n de organizaciones comussitarias            Cant.org.Com.                                                1,100      1,440            340       1,100        1,440                340
Capacitaciones para el fortalecimiento institucional               Cant.M6d.4 hs.                                                 77 77       54            -23          77          54                 -23
Capacitaciones para la formulaci6n de proyectos                    CantM6d.4 hs.                                                6,500      5,847            -653      6,600        5,847               -753
EVALUACION
Proyectos elegibles / Presentados                                                             90         96               6       90        91.9             1.9         90         87 4                -2.6
Proyetos aprobadosfevaluados                                                                 70         71               1       70        87.8            17.8         70         87.7                17.7
Tiempo entre presentaci6n e informe tecnico final                  Dias                       90        110              20       90         107             17          90         106                  16
CONTRATACION
Tiempo entre informe tecnico final y el ler. desembolso            Dias                       30         35               5       30          66             36          30          66                  36
Monto contratado acumulado                                         $ (en miles)            1,600     1,380.6         -291.4   19,900   30,716.8         10,816.8     26,000    30,821,53             4,857.7
Monto contratado acumulado/Monto previsto acumulado                %                         100         86             -14       100      154.4            54.4        100        118.7                18.7
Cantidad de proyectos contratados                                  Cant.                      62         55              -7      610         806            196         760         806                  46
Monto promedio de proyectos contratados                            $/proy                 25,800     25,099            -701    32,700  38,110.20         5,410.2     34,200     38,285.0             4,085.0
SEGUIMIENTO V CONTROL
Proycctos en ejecuci6n al final del periodo                        Cant                       62         47             -15      336         571            235           0          30                   3
Proyectos terininados acusnulados                                  Cant                        0          0               0      266          70           -196         734         776                  42
Monto desembolsado acumulado                                       $ (en miles)            500.0       547.6           47.6   14,300    15,650.2         1,350.2   26,000.0    26,984.8               959.0
Nivel de gasto de proyectos                                                                                                       70          69              -1      100.0         98.0               -2.0
Avance fisico de la ejecuci6n                                                                                                     90        73.0             -17      100.0         98.0               -2.0
Avance financiero                                                                                                                 90        76.0             -14      100.0        100.0                0.0
Promedio de dias de retraso en proyectos retrasados                Dias                        0          0               0        15         56             41        15.0         40.0               25.0
Promedio de dias de adelanto en proyectos adelantados              Dias                                                                       20                                      0
Monto observado/monto rendido                                                          _                                            5        0.2            -4.8        5.0          0.3                4.7
Monto observado                                                    $ (en miles)                                                             17.6                                    56.6
GENERAL
CLDS instaladas (acumulado)                                        Cant.                                                          62          44             -18       62.0          44                 -18
CPP instaladas (acumnulado)                                        Cant6                                  6               0        10          6             -4         6.            6
Contribuci6n de beneficiariosmonto contratado7                                                           10               3        7        114.3                       7.0         11.3                4.3
Contribuci6n de beneficiarios/monto contratado en proycctos cerrados  %                                                            7        12.2            5.2         6.0         10.5                4.5
18



Table 5C: Key Monitoring Indicators/ SIEMPRO
ANO 1996                               ANO 1997                                ANO 1998                              ACUMULADO 1995-1998
CONCEPTO                       META  EJECUTADO DESVIO   META  EJECUTADO DESVIO   META  EJECUTADO DESVIO   META  EJECUTADO DESVIO
Encuesta de Desarrollo Social                         1              0         -1            0               1          1            0              0           0             1              1           0
Preparaci6n del SIEMPRO2                              0              0          0            1               1          0            0              0           0            1               1          0
Talleres de Gesti6n                                   0              0          0            6               6 (                     9              9           0           15              15           0
Estudio de vulnerabilidad y exclusi6n social          0              0          0            2               5          3            0              0           0            2               5           3
Estudio sobre mortalidad infantil                     1              1          0            3               3          0            0              0           0            4               4           0
Construcci6n de mapas sobre vulnerabilidad            I              I          0            2               2          0            0              0           0            3               3           0
Estudios cualitativos de pobreza                      3              1          -2           3               4          1            0              1            1           6               6           0
Publicaci6n de indicadores sociales                   I              0          -1           2               5          3            0               1           1           3               6           3
Evaluaciones y Monitoreo                              4              2          -2          13              15          2            2              4           2           19             21            2
TORsparalaevaluaci6ndeprogramas                       0              0          0            0              15         15            2              2           0            2              17          15
Linea de Base                                         I              1          0            0               0          0            0              0           0             1              1           0
Guia de Programas Sociales                            1              1          0             1              1          0             1              1           0           3               3           0
Manual de formulaci6n de programas                    1              I          0            3               3          0            0              0            0           4               4           0
Unidades ejecutoras provinciales                      5              3          -2           5               7          2            0              0            0          10              10           0
Talleres de capacitaci6n                             10             25          15          42              44          2           10             12            2          62              81          19
Base de Datos de Programas Sociales                   0              0          0            4              23         19           26             33            7          30              56         26
Planes de Diseminaci6n Tecnica                        0              0           0           0               6          6            0              2           2            0               8           8
Sistema Integrado de Monitoreo                        0              0          0            3               3          0            4              6           2            7               9           2
Cursos                                                0              0          0            9               9          0            8              8            0           17             17           0
Publicaci6n de cartografla digital                    0              0          0            0               2          2            2              2            0           2               4           2
Estudios de coyuntura social                          6              0          -6           0               61         6            6              6            0           12             12           0
19



Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                                           Purpose                                 Status                 Impact
PART A                                          To improve the longer-run efficiency of  Completed             I .  Research results fed into the national budget formulation process.
Broad review of public social spending in Argentina    public spending for social programs                     2.  Improved monitoring of social sector spending has been mainstreamed at the
at the national level-federal spending)                                                                            federal level.
I .  Review/analysis of social spending
A.  Benefit incidence analysis
Provincial-level studies of public social spending:  To improve the longer-run efficiency of  Completed        Ministry of Economy better informed on institutional issues from the provincial point
1. Santa Fe province                            public spending for social programs                           of view
2. Salta province
Evaluation of Matemal-Child Health Program      To improve the effectiveness of public  Completed              Findings disseminated
1. national level                               spending on the Matemal-Child Health
2. Chaco province                               Program
3. Jujuy province                                                                                                                                                                         l
Broad review of Argentine employment/training   I .  To increase the efficiency (including    Completed        I .  A number of MTSS programs have been evaluated and improved/redesigned
programs and policies:                              the poverty targeting) of the                                  based on findings (PROAS/PRENO, TRABAJAR, labor intermediation
I .  Study of unemployment insurance program.       unemployment insurance,                                        services).
2.  Labor market reforms study                      employment and training programs                           2.  Enhanced Ministry of Labor's ability to articulate a comprehensive strategy,
administered by the Ministry of                               including with Donors
3.  Studies on various employment programs           Labor.
4.  Analysis of training programs.              2.  To help inform national level
discussions on employment and labor
policy.
Provincial level study on the distributional impact of   To enhance the province's ability to use its   Completed  Findings publicly diseminated.
public spending on education (Mendoza Province)-   resources effectively to achieve growth
with additional funding from UNICEF and Ministry    with equity
of Economy.
PART B                                          To assure quality of sub-projects      Completed               Improvement in project cycle.
Ex-post evaluation of sub-projects
Beneficiary assessment                          To evaluate program                     Completed              Improvement in project cycle.
Evaluation of FOPAR                             To evaluate program                     Completed              Improvement in project cycle.
PART C                                          To evaluate program                     Completed              Improvement to program.
Evaluation ofASOMA
Evaluation of Program Agropecuario              To evaluate program                     Completed              Improvement to program.
Evaluation of Trabajar                          To evaluate program                     Completed              Improvement to program.
20



Table 7A: Project Costs
Item                              Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
A. Priority Social and Income Support Programs                      366.8                               563.5
A. (i) Social Programs                                              361.5                               558.2
A. (ii) Institutional Development                                     5.3                                5.3
B. Pilot Participatory Social Investment Fund (FOPAR)                35.8                               36.9
B. (i) Community-Based Subprojects                                   25.8                               29.5
B. (ii) Institutional Devlopment                                     10.0                                7.4
C. Improvement of Social Information, Targeting and Monitoring       13.2                                13.2
of Social Programs (SIEMPRO)
C. (i) Social Information and Targeting                              4.7                                 5.3
C. (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation of Targeted Social Programs         3.0                                2.2
C. (iii) Dissemination and Transfer of Methodologies                  3.7                                2.8
C. (iv) Institutional Strengthening                                   1.8                                2.9
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                     415.8
Physical Contingencies                                                0.4
Price Contingencies                                                   1.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                  417.9                              613.6
21



Table 7B: Project Financing
Source                           Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                       Actual (US$M)
IBRD/IDA                                                    152.0                                      152.0
Government of Argentina *                                   265.9                                     461.6
TOTAL                                                       417.9                                      613.6
* Includes Beneficiary Contribution for FOPAR sub-projects
22



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant  Present    Original      Revised                                        Description of
type     status   fulfillment   fulfillment                                      Covenant
date         date
3.02 (b)    3        C        Continual                  Grants for Subprojects made in accordance withi procedures and terms and conditions set forth in
FOPAR Operational Manual
3.04(a)    5/9       C        MarchlSept                Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable monitoring on an ongoing basis, in accordance
annually                  with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, of the canying out of the Project and the achievement of
objectives, and shall by March 31 and September 30 of each year of execution provide the Bank with
semi-annual progress reports on the execution of each program included in Part A and on the execution
of Parts B and C, in a format acceptable to the Bank and including the indicators referred to above
3.04 ((b)   5/9       CD       3/31/97     5/3097        Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furmish to the Bank, not later than March
31, 1997, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant
to Paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carying out of Parts B and C of the
Project and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of these Parts of
the Project and the achievement of the objectives during the period following such date;
3.04 9c    5/9       CD       4130/97      7/31/97      Review with the Bank, by April 30, 1997, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of Parts B and C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives, based on the
conclusions and recommendations of the report and the Bank's views.
3.04 (d)    9        C         12/15/97                  Not later than December 15, 1995, the Borrowe:r shall fumish to the Bank a set of indicators,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be used in the monibring of the execution of each of the Protected
Programs.
3.05     3/11       C        2/28/96                   The Borrower shall ensure that its expenditures in 1995 under the Protected Programs shall amount, in
the aggregate, to no less than $300,000,000 equivalent, and shall inform the Bank in writing by
February 28, 1996 of the level and composition of 1995 expenditures for the Protected Programs.
3.06     3/5/11     C        12/15/95                  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 15, 1995, forward to the Bank a report on the physical
and financial performance of the Protected Programs for the first semester of this year; (b) not later than
December 15, 995, provide the Bank with a proposal, acceptable to the Bank, for the size and
composition of the Selected Emlployment Programs to be financed by the loan under Part A of the
project during 1996; and (c) allocate budgetary funds for the Protected Programs to be carried out in
1996 in amounts at least equal to $300,000,000.
3.07     5/11       CD       12/15/95 and 12/15/95 and  The Borrower, through DNPGS, shall carry out a public social expenditure review on the basis of terms
6/30/96 and  7/31/96 and    of reference provided to the Bank not later than December 15, 1995 for its review and coment, forward
12/31/96    4/30/97      to the Bank for its review a copy of draft report; on federal social expenditures not later than May 31,
1996, and on provincial social expenditures not later than December 31, 1996.
3.08     4          C        Continual                 The Borrower shall make available, as and when needed, no less than $13,000,000 equivalent, in the
aggregate, as counterpart funds for the execution of Parts B and C of the Project prior to the Closing
date.
4.01     2          CD       Continual                 Maintain adequate financial records.
4.01 (a)    I        CD        Continual                 Submit audit reports of the financial, project records and of the Special Account.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart fuinding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
23



Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                           Weeks              US$
Project Cycle
Preparation to Appraisal                95               325,554
Appraisal- Board                        31.5             107,136
Negotiations through Board Approval     6.2               18,517
Supervision                              79              342,103
Completion                              8.1               4,751
TOTAL                                  219.8             798,061
24



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance R2ling
Number                      Specialized      Implemen-       D)evelop-
Stage of         Month/         of         Days in       Staff Skills       tation           ment         Types of
Project Cycle        Year       Persons       Field        Represented         Status        Cbjectives     Problems
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision 1          11/95           5            50        E, SS, E, LE, P         S         _
Supervision 2          7/96            6            60        E, E, E, SS, SS,        S              S
OP
Supervision 3          7/97            5            49        E, E, SS, E, OP         S              HS
Supervision 4          11/97           3            20        E, E, LE                S              HS
Supervision 5          2/98            2            29        E, OP
Completion
Part A                 11/98       1           5              E
Parts B and C          2/99        1           5              OP
E = Economist
OP = Operation Offficer
P = Procurement
SS = Social Scientist
LE = Labor Economist
25



Table 11: Federal Spending on Targeted Social Programs Protected under the Project
(in millions of Argentine pesos)
Program                                    1994       1995      1996          1997
Apoyo Solidario a los Mayores (ASOMA)       $5.5     $24.7     $31.3          $36.2
Plan Social Educativo                     $129.8     $92.0   $149.9          $129.5
Normatizacion, Suministros y Supervision   $10.9       $8.9      $8.6         $13.7
de Vacunaciones
Control de Enfermedades Transmisibles por  $17.2     $13.7      $6.0          $12.5
Vectores (Chagas)
Plan Social Agropecuario                    $6.9      $4.2    $10.7            $9.4
Generacion de Empleo                      $138.0    $163.7   $152.6          $288.5
Total Spending On Protected Programs      $308.3    $307.3    $359.1         $489.9
(in current pesos)
Spending on Targeted Programs Relative to  100.0      99.7      116.5         158.9
1994, in nominal terms (1994=100)
Total Spending On Protected Programs      $308.3    $294.0   $338.6          $464.2
(in 1994 Pesos)
Spending on Targeted Programs Relative to  100.0      95.4      109.8         150.6
1994, in real terms (1994=100)
Deflator for 1995 = 4.5
Deflator for 1996 = 1.5
Deflator for 1997 = -.5
26



Table 12: FOPAR Sub-projects Funded by Type
I            Ejecuci6n al 31/2/98
Tipo       Descripcion                                Cantidad  MontoContrat Desembolsos    BIRF            SDS    AporteBenef
CANM       Establecimientos asistenciales nivel 1 bajo ri  42         1,567,805    1,535,062   1,058,311     359,717      117,034
CDC        Centros de desarrollo comunitario             268         12,301,856    11,950,563    8,191,651    2,804,742   954,170
FALC       Formaci6n de agentes y lideres comunitarios   96             905,414      852,195     592,658     161,600       97,937
FAMI       Famiempresas                                   2           1,406,082      742,896     510,227
FIEL       Fortalecim. de la integraci6n escuela - comun.  41         1,771,891    1,747,115    1,187,307    414,741      145,068
FOB        Fortalecimiento de organizaciones de base     18             129,802      131,842      91,535      24,185       16,122
FOBANE    Fortalec. organiz. de base c/activ.natur.econ.  32            587,330      603,666     389,773     101,498      112,395
PDC        Promoci6n del desarrollo comunitario          27             186,277      181,503     124,659      38,495       18,349
PENC       Proyectos de energia no convencionales         1              24,017       24,017      16,812       4,805        2,400
POC        Pequenias obras comunitarias                  108          4,305,455    4,258,982   2,894,026     846,164      518,792
PSA        Pequefios sistemas de agua potable            29           1,301,642    1,293,260     895,796     284,951      112,513
SBL        Saneamiento basico (letrinas y fosas septicas)  142        6,333,964    6,190,797   4,257,497    1,499,939     433,362
TOTALES                                      806          30,821,535    29,511,898   20,210,251    6,773,506  2,528,141
27



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
(LOAN 39570-AR)
APPENDIX: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PART B: SECRETARIAT FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
INFORME DE CIERRE
CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO 3957 AR BIRF - COMPONENTES B Y C
PROGRAMA PARTICIPATIVO DE DESARROLLO SOCIAL
I- Creaci6n del Programa Participativo de Desarrollo Social: Surgimiento y Objetivos.
El Programa Participativo de Desarrollo Social (PRODESO), se cre6 por la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social de la
Presidencia de la Naci6n (SDS) mediante la Resoluci6n 1826/94, es una unidad ejecutora compuesta por dos
componentes basicos y una unidad de apoyo: el Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n Social (FOPAR), el Sistema de
Informaci6n, Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n de Programas Sociales (SIEMPRO), y la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Administrativo
Financiera que brinda apoyo a ambos.
La creaci6n del Componente SIEMPRO esta estrechamente vinculada con el diagn6stico que dio origen a la SDS.
En el se sefialaba la debilidad de la capacidad institucional del Estado para la elaboraci6n de diagnosticos sobre las
condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n en situaci6n de pobreza y vulnerabilidad social y, para la generaci6n de metodologias
de planificaci6n y evaluaci6n de las intervenciones publicas realizadas con ese fin.
Como consecuencia de ello, muchas de esas intervenciones expresadas en programas sociales reflejaban
problemas o bien la ausencia de focalizaci6n de las acciones, la fragmentaci6n y superposici6n geografica, la carencia de
indicadores de desempefio e impacto, de sistemas intemos y externos de evaluaci6n, la insuficiencia de recursos humanos
formados.
En ese contexto se cre6 el componente SIEMPRO, como un programa de apoyo de la SDS, con la misi6n basica
de auxiliar al fortalecimiento de la gesti6n de los programas sociales y el apoyo tecnico a la toma de decisiones en el
campo social.
Por su parte el componente FOPAR respondi6 a la necesidad de poner a prueba un nuevo modelo de gesti6n
social basado en el protagonismo de los beneficiarios en la presentaci6n de demandas comunitarias y en la administraci6n
de los recursos para su soluci6n. En este sentido, para el disefno de la Etapa Piloto del FOPAR se definieron
procedimientos tendientes a garantizar la aplicaci6n de mecanismos transparentes para asignar localmente recursos a los
sectores sociales mas afectados por la pobreza en base a una demanda estructurada en pequenos proyectos.
El disefio institucional consider6 explicitamente mecanismos para favorecer la aplicaci6n de una estrategia de
focalizacion territorial, la recepci6n de demandas de la poblaci6n- objetivo y los instrumentos para brindar respuestas a
las mismas y la aplicaci6n de un modelo de gesti6n apoyado en distintas formas de participaci6n provincial y comunitaria
y en una progresiva autogesti6n de los proyectos por parte de los beneficiarios directos del Programa.
28



II- Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n social (FOPAR)
(Componente B)
Objetivos
El objetivo fundamental de] Fondo Participativo de Inversi6n Social (FOPAR) es el de desarrollar capacidades
locales de gesti6n a traves de experiencias participativas y concretas en formulaci6n, gesti6n y ejecuci6n de proyectos
destinados a mejorar condiciones socioecon6micas de grupos y comunidades en situaci6n de pobreza.
Los objetivos para la etapa piloto del FOPAR consistieron en poner a prueba nuevos mecanismos para:
*  canalizar recursos financieros para subproyectos destinados a comunidades focalizadas;
*  fortalecer organizaciones sociales;
*  Ilevar a cabo inversiones de pequefia escala dirigidas a satisfacer necesidades basicas.
Logros y Resultados Alcanzados
* Alcance territorial: El Fondo ha logrado constituirse en un mecanismo transparente de financiamiento de proyectos
en las provincias de Salta, Jujuy, Corrientes, Misiones, Chaco y Santiago del Estero. En el caso de la Provincia de
TucumAn se trabaj6 durante la Etapa Piloto con el componente piloto de apoyo a las micro/famiempresas.
* Comisiones Locales de Desarrollo Social CLDS: En estas provincias se han constituido Comisiones Locales de
Desarrollo Social (CLDS) que cumplen funciones de apoyo a la promoci6n y ejecuci6n de los proyectos .
C Cobertura y desempefno general:
a) Durante el periodo 96-98, la participacion activa de los beneficiarios con el aipoyo tecnico del Programa ha
logrado la ejecuci6n de 806 proyectos comunitarios por un monto de $30.82 L.000 beneficiando directamente a
214.289 personas. De esta manera se alcanza una cobertura del 45% de la poblaci6n NBI que habita en las zonas
focalizadas (la demanda potencial se estim6 en 475.000 personas). De los 214.289 beneficiarios directos,
aproximadamente 16.000 personas, ademas de beneficiarse con el uso de la obra o de la capacitaci6n, han
participado activamente en la gesti6n y ejecuci6n de los proyectos a traves de su participaci6n en los nicleos de
beneficiarios (NUB), recibiendo capacitaci6n y asistencia ticnica que les han permitido desarrollar capacidades
de identificaci6n de necesidades autogestion y administraci6n de recursos. Esta metodologia de fuerte
participaci6n en todo el ciclo de proyectos y especialmente en la administraci6n de los recursos del proyecto, ha
demostrado que favorece la apropiaci6n de los beneficiarios como base de lae sostenibilidad de los mismos.
b) Dado el enfoque participativo que impulsa el programa, el ciclo de proyecto extendido que el mismo conlleva, la
entrada gradual a las provincias y el periodo de dos anios del prestamo, se Dpt6 por atender 6 provincias y dejar
cuatro para una segunda fase.
c) La respuesta de la poblaci6n a la propuesta del Fondo se evidencia en que en un total de 125 barrios de las
ciudades capitales (el 88% de los barrios convocados a concurso) y 53 municipios del interior (el 100% de las
localidades promocionadas) se contrataron proyectos.
d) El programa ingres6 gradualmente en las provincias, firmando convenios con los diferentes gobemadores y
convocando a los Consejos Participativos Provinciales. Al 30/09/96 se habfian contratado proyectos por un monto
de $166.000, al 31/12/96 este valor era de $1.380.000, al 30/06/97 trep6 a $9.802.000 y al 31/12/97 ascendi6 a $
30.821.000.
e) Debe destacarse que en esta fase de operaciones se apoy6 la constituci6n de 1440 organizaciones comunitarias y
se impartieron 5847 m6dulos de capacitaci6n para la formulaci6n de proyectos.
f) Dada la cantidad y calidad de los proyectos presentados al FOPAR se constituy6 un Banco de Proyectos (252)
pendientes de financiamiento que se estan sometiendo a revisi6n para su contratacion y ejecuci6n en el transcurso
de 1999.
29



*  Cartera de proyectos: Se presentaron y ejecutaron subproyectos de todos las categorias existentes en el menu de
proyectos.
* Participaci6n organizaciones de la sociedad civil: El Fondo ha logrado la participaci6n de numerosas
organizaciones tecnicas e instituciones de la sociedad civil en el apoyo a los beneficiarios en las distintas etapas del
ciclo de subproyectos.
* Empleo: La mayoria de los proyectos realizados ejecutados durante la Etapa Piloto contemplaron la construcci6n de
obra fisica, requiriendo una demanda significativa de trabajo.
Impacto del Programa
Hacia el uiltimo trimestre de 1997 comenz6 una evaluaci6n expost realizada por consultores externos al FOPAR a
proyectos finalizados con el objeto de establecer los resultados obtenidos en la ejecuci6n de proyectos en relaci6n al
cumplimiento de los objetivas propuestos.
* Focalizaci6n: La evaluacion expost que se desarroll6 a una muestra de proyectos ejecutados por el FOPAR en
cuatro provincias del pais, muestra que un 80% de los beneficiarios directos constituyen poblaci6n en situaci6n de
pobreza extrema.
* Percepci6n de los beneficiarios: En base a la encuesta a beneficiarios realizada por el equipo extemo de evaluaci6n
expost, se obtuvieron los siguientes resultados:
a) El 96% de los beneficiarios manifestaron que sus proyectos efectivamente satisficieron sus necesidades o
solucionaron los problemas identificados.
b) El 97% de beneficiarios expresaron que el apoyo de Fopar fue indispensable para la implementaci6n de sus
proyectos.
c) Los mecanismos de participaci6n disefiados por FOPAR, entre estos, la administraci6n de recursos por los NUB
crearon las condiciones para que los beneficiarios contribuyan activamente en las etapas del proyecto.
d) Existe un amplio consenso sobre el correcto manejo de los recursos econ6micos proporcionados por FOPAR por
parte de los responsables de los NUB.
e) Los beneficiarios de los proyectos evaluados expresan una opini6n favorable sobre su experiencia de
participaci6n en los proyectos FOPAR.
f) Se reconoce que un aspecto relevante de los proyectos es que proporcionaron trabajo a los hombres beneficiarios
NUB que tienen niveles mas altos de pobreza (el 82% de los trabajadores remunerados calific6 como NBI).
g) Los beneficiarios destacaron el apoyo de los tecnicos del Programa para la formulaci6n y ejecuci6n de los
proyectos.
h) Para la mayoria de los beneficiarios su participaci6n en los nuicleos de beneficiarios (NUB) constituye su primera
experiencia organizativa.
* Costos y aportes locales: Se ha podido constatar durante la etapa piloto del Fondo que los beneficiarios realizan
mayores aportes locales durante la ejecuci6n de los proyectos llegando a un valor de 20.1% del costo total del
proyecto seguin el informe de evaluaci6n expost. Ademas, el costo unitaria de construcci6n por metro cuadrado es
menor que en programas similares.
* Calidad de la infraestructura: La calidad final de las obras fue aceptable para el programa y las dimensiones de las
obras fueron adecuadas a la poblaci6n beneficiaria.
30



*  Sostenibilidad: De las distintas consideraciones sociales, tecnicas y econ6micas itomadas en cuenta por la evaluaci6n
ex post se concluye que el 80% de los proyectos de infraestructura del FOPAR se encuentran en un nivel entre medio
y alto de posibilidad de ser sostenibles.
*  Efectos ambientales: Los proyectos comunitarios del FOPAR han sido de pequena magnitud y los impactos
ambientales fueron previsibles y controlados desde los proyectos.
Continuidad Institucional
Dado el exito observado por el Programa durante la etapa piloto y los resultados favorables de la evaluaci6n
extema, el Gobiemo Argentino ha gestionado y aprobado una segunda fase de cuatro affos de duraci6n. La segunda etapa
constituye una continuidad con respecto a la Etapa Piloto, no obstante se han instrumentado algunas modificaciones.
Principales Factores que Afectaron la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto
Fuera del control del gobierno: Las regiones del norte donde trabaj6 el Fondo se caracterizan pos sus condiciones
climaticas adversas o inestables. A su vez, se observaron insuficientes recursos de apoyo tecnico a la formulaci6n y
ejecuci6n de proyectos, a nivel provincial y local.
En ireas de gobierno ajenas a la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social: A nivel Nacional: demoras en la aprobaci6n de la
ejecuci6n presupuestaria y restricciones y cambios presupuestarios. A nivel de las provincias: en el caso del FOPAR, el
sistema de gobiemo federal vigente en la Repuiblica Argentina implica numerosas instancias de negociaci6n de acuerdos
con las autoridades nacionales, provinciales y municipales que incidieron en los ritmos de ejecuci6n. A nivel municipal:
Existieron dificultades originadas tanto en la tendencia de los municipios a querer manejar los recursos como en la
demora o falta de cumplimiento en compromisos de apoyo a los proyectos.
En relaci6n con la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social y el FOPAR: Es de destacar como factor condicionante inicial del
Programa, la falta de credibilidad generalizada de los pobladores y de los funcionarios de municipios pobres frente a los
programas sociales en general. Por otra parte cabe destacar la existencia de significativas demoras en la tramitaci6n de
firmas de convenio, cancelaci6n y cierre de proyectos, a nivel de la SDS.
Rol del Banco
La relaci6n del Programa con las misiones del Banco transcurrieron en un clima inmejorable de cooperaci6n e
intercambio.
Lecciones
* Inserci6n institucional
Teniendo en cuenta actualmente con una imagen publica muy difundida en las provincias del Norte y considerando que
pr6ximamente habrA de expandir su cobertura territorial se ha previsto reforzar los esquemas de inserci6n institucional del
Programa en cadajurisdicci6n provincial.
* Acompanamiento activo
El desarrollo exitoso de la experiencia FOPAR ha dependido en medida importante de la inserci6n del Programa en
terreno antes y durante el ciclo de proyectos: promoci6n, evaluaci6n y seguimiento, bajo diferentes formas de
diagn6stico, capacitaci6n, apoyo a procesos organizativos, asistencia tecnica y asistencia juridica. Esta modalidad de
31



trabajo esta siendo perfeccionada con vistas a la siguiente fase del Programa, tomando la experiencia acumulada como
fuente para la reformulaci6n metodol6gica y de instrumentos.
* Estrategia de Articulaci6n y acuerdos institucionales con otros programas u organismos sectoriales
La experiencia ha demostrado la importancia de una estrategia integral de articulaci6n con otros programas u organismos,
con el fin de maximizar el impacto de sus propias acciones. A tal efecto el FOPAR considera necesario profundizar
estrategias de articulaci6n.
* Menu de Subproyectos Comunitarios
Se consider6 conveniente amnpliar el menui para el segundo prestamo.
* Transferencia Metodol6gica
Se ha disefiado una nueva linea de accion que tiene como objetivo transferir las metodologias e instrumentos
desarrollados por el FOPAR, permitiendo potenciar recursos existentes.
*  Monto Miximo de los proyectos
Se acordo un incremento de este monto maximo. A su vez, a raiz de la capacidad demostrada por los beneficiarios para
administrar sumas de dinero se ampli6 el monto de los mismos cuando se trate de proyectos de baja complejidad tecnica,
que no requieran equipamiento sofisticado ni experiencia tecnica especifica.
I1- Sistema de Informaci6n, Monitoreo, y Evaluaci6n de Programas Sociales (SIEMPRO)- (Componente C)
1. Objetivos
El SIEMPRO, cuyo objetivo general es el de "dotar a la Secretaria de Desarrollo Social de los recursos necesarios
para la operaci6n de un sistema de informaci6n social, monitoreo, evaluaci6n y capacitaci6n en gerenciamiento social",
precisa los objetivos especificos que orientaron su estructura y ejecuci6n:
* Mejorar el gerenciamiento de los programas sociales.
-  Generar una base de datos util para los responsables del disenio y ejecucion de politicas y programas sociales, sobre
condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n y oferta de programas sociales.
*  Producir informaci6n social para el disefio y la focalizaci6n social y territorial de los programas sociales.
* Promover la incorporacion e institucionalizaci6n de un sistema de gesti6n integral de programas sociales por
resultados.
* Brindar asistencia tecnica y capacitaci6n a los organismos del area social en los niveles nacionales y provinciales.
*  Difundir en la opini6n publica nacional informaci6n sobre condiciones de vida de la poblaci6n, las politicas sociales y
el rol del estado.
*  Realizar un monitoreo estrategico y evaluaciones de proceso, resultados e impacto de los programas sociales.
* Generar un ambito de analisis y monitoreo de la situacion social y de disenio de estrategias de intervencion
1. 1. Concepciones Estrategicas del SIEMPRO:
1.1.1. La Funci6n Evaluadora
Para el logro de sus prop6sitos, el SIEMPRO naci6 con determinadas concepciones estrategicas que orientaron su
estructura funcional y desarrollo. 'Jn criterio central es, generar un dispositivo de informaciones y evaluaciones cuya
finalidad sea contribuir al ejercicio de las politicas sociales y no la disminuci6n o supresi6n de gastos sociales como
tradicionalmente fue entendida, en periodos de ajuste, la funcion evaluadora. A partir de esta formulaci6n, el SIEMPRO
precis6 las siguientes concepciones acerca de las evaluaciones:
32



*  La evaluaci6n es inherente a los procesos de modernizaci6n del Estado porque articula la gesti6n pubblica con sus
resultados, genera procesos de fortalecimiento institucional y permite transparentar las acciones del Estado para
posibilitar el control social.
*  Reconocer la centralidad, la autonomia y la especificidad de la evaluaci6n social a partir de la complejidad,
multicausalidad y heterogeneidad de lo social, por contraste con las habituales evaluaciones de inversiones fisicas con
criterios estrictamente econ6micos.
*  Introducir tina dimensi6n novedosa en la funci6n de evaluaci6n como las evaluaciones prospectivas: es decir,
capaces de dar cuenta de los efectos sociales de la politicas econ6micas y de otras inversiones puiblicas y privadas.
*  Necesidad de no divorciar los sistemas de informaci6n social de los procesos de evaluaci6n de los programas
sociales.
*  La dinamica integradora de ambos aspectos (informaci6n y evaluaci6n), es la que habra de permitir dimensionar
brechas sociales, fijar metas, asumir compromisos institucionales de caracter puiblico y verificar su cumplimiento
desde el estado y desde la sociedad, haciendo de la funci6n evaluadora un instrurnento democratizador de la
informaci6n al servicio de la ciudadania.
1.1.2. Descentralizaci6n del SIEMPRO a las provincias
El SIEMPRO, adopt6 una estrategia de transferencia, capacitaci6n y comunicaci6n flexible, que combinaba
ofertas preestablecidas aplicables a todo el pais y mecanismos que permit6 detectar requerimientos peculiares de las
jurisdicciones e instituciones, junto a modalidades ocasionales e intensivas y mecanismos permanentes.
Las acciones de transferencia tecnica tuvieron por objeto incorporar las provincias al SIEMPRO, fortaleciendo
los organismos encargados de su implementaci6n. Para ello se crearon las Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales (UEPs). Las
mismas recibieron asistencia tecnica, capacitaci6n, equipamiento y seguimiento.
1.1.3. Ambitos de anilisis y discusi6n
Generar un ambito de analisis y discusi6n te6rico-conceptual y metodol6gico acerca del rol del Estado frente a los
problemas sociales que permitiera el disefio de nuevas estrategias de intervenci6n.
1. 1.4. Formaci6n de equipos tecnicos
Fonnar equipos de excelencia en temas de pobreza, vulnerabilidad social, gerencia social, evaluaci6n y
monitoreo, atendiendo a la situaci6n desventajosa de las areas sociales frente a las capacidades de las areas econ6micas.
2.     Disefio del Proyecto- Organizaci6n Funcional del SIEMPRO
Acorde con sus objetivos y concepciones estrategicas, se estructur6 funcionalmente el SIEMPRO. A nivel
nacional se cre6 una Unidad Ejecutora Central conformada por un grupo de Gerencias responsables de desarrollar sus
distintas funciones. Este mismo disefio de organizaci6n funcional se replic6 en los niveles subnacionales, en las
provincias, en las que se instalaron las asi llamadas Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales del SIEMPRO. 1
'A la fecha existen 10 de estas, en las provincias de Salta, Chaco, Misiones, Rio Negro, Neuquen, La Pampa, San Luis,
Mendoza, La Rioja, San Juan y Santa Fe. Pr6ximamante se espera ampliar la experiencia al resto de las provincias del
pais.
33



a) Gerencia de Informaci6n Social.
De esta depende la funci6n de generaci6n y difusi6n de la informaci6n social, destinada a todos los niveles institucionales
de la propia Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, al Gabinete Social, a las areas sociales de los gobiemos provinciales, a
organismos no gubernamentales y organizaciones sociales de la comunidad. Asimismo, es la responsable de proveer
asistencia tecnica a estas mismas instancias para que puedan mejorar sus propias formas de generaci6n y uso de
informaci6n social propia.
b) Gerencia de Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n de Programas Sociales.
Tiene el prop6sito de contribuir a una gesti6n integral de los programas sociales sobre la base de un proceso de
planificaci6n, ejecuci6n y evaluaci6n de las acciones destinadas a mejorar las condiciones de vida de grupos de la
poblaci6n. Para ello, se desarrollan metodologias y herramientas de evaluaci6n, provisi6n de asistencia tecnica y
financiamiento para la formulaci6n y evaluaci6n de programas.
c) Gerencia de Capacitaci6n y Transferencia
Responsable de instalar las capacidades de gerenciamiento social en las instituciones gubernamentales y no
gubemamentales que desarrollan acciones en el campo social, sobre la base de la formaci6n de sus recursos humanos.
Este esfuerzo se centraliza especialmente en los niveles provinciales y locales, a traves de las Unidades Ejecutoras
Provinciales del SIEMPRO.
d) Unidad de Anilisis de Politicas Sociales
Esta unidad tiene la responsabilidad de generar ambitos de debate con distintos actores y el sector academico y realizar
estudios e investigaciones sistematicas sobre los fen6menos de la pobreza, la vulnerabilidad y exclusi6n social, a traves de
los cuales se pueda apoyar la mejor toma de decisiones, asi como la conducci6n de las politicas sociales destinadas a la
poblaci6n en situacion de pobreza y vulnerabilidad social. Es esta Unidad la responsable de realizar, por lo mismo, la
funci6n evaluadora prospectiva.
3.    Lecciones y Riesgos
3.1.   Durante la ejecuci6n del SIEMPRO 1, se hizo evidente que una de las contribuciones mas valiosas del programa
es su asistencia tecnica a las provincias. En ese sentido, el SIEMPRO 2 continuara fortaleciendo esta linea. Por otro lado,
en algunos casos, el SIEMPRO I experiment6 dificultades en la obtenci6n de la cooperaci6n y el acceso a la informaci6n
necesaria para llevar a cabo la evaluaci6n de programas fuera de la SDS. Consecuentemente, durante el primer afio, el
SIEMPRO 2 se concentrara en la evaluaci6n de programas dentro de la SDS. La evaluaci6n de programas fuera de la
SDS sera a demanda. SIEMPRO 2 tambien se beneficiara de la expertise del Banco en el anAlisis de la pobreza y las
encuestas sociales. El Banco tambien serA instrumental en la transferencia de lecciones y experiencias de otros clientes
asi como de paises de la OCDE.
3.2.   En segundo lugar, el impacto que SIEMPRO estA teniendo en los programas nacionales es considerable, tomando
en cuenta que una buena parte estos se encuentran en la propia SDS y que aqui la acogida de las actividades del Programa
y la respuesta gerencial a las mismas es inmediata. Por otra parte, el SIEMPRO logr6 llegar, a veces con mucha fuerza a
los equipos provinciales de los programas nacionales de la SDS y de otros sectores.
3.3.   El SIEMPRO fue consultado permanentemente frente a la necesidad de definir estrategias de intervenci6n, siendo
interlocutor de ambos bancos e incluso del FMI, durante sus misiones en el pais.
3.4.   Las evaluaciones realizadas por el SIEMPRO, permitieron mejorar la operatoria de los programas evaluados,
aumentar la eficiencia y eficacia de sus prestaciones. Sin Animo de realizar una lista exhaustiva de las mejoras concretas
introducidas por los programas, a modo de ejemplo se puede mencionar la evaluaci6n del PSA, que permiti6 reformular la
34



operatoria completa de la asistencia tecnica a los pequefios productores rurales, se retipifico la asistencia tecnica,
estableciendo el costo por tipo y duraci6n de la misma, generandose una mayor eficiencia en la asignaci6n de recursos
para este tipo de prestaciones. En el Programa ASOMA, la evaluaci6n permiti6 refo:rmular la estructura de recursos
humanos del programa, mejor6 la focalizaci6n y aument6 la cobertura del mismo, se reestructuraron los mecanismos de
transferencia a las provincias y redujeron el peso de los gastos operativos de administraci6n; se redujo tambien el precio
medio de adquisici6n del bols6n de comida, manteniendo la calidad y contenido cal6rico de la prestaci6n, etc.
3.5.   Lo que hace distinguible la experiencia del SIEMPRO respecto de las otras iniciativas desarrolladas en los
restantes paises, es que todas estas funciones de informaci6n social, monitoreo y evaluaci6n de politicas, programas e
instituciones, capacitaci6n y difusion o transferencia tecnica a servidores publicos, sen parte de un sistema
institucionalmente integrado, lo que permite su utilizaci6n de manera sistemica, en tanto que en otras realidades
nacionales, tales funciones estan desagregadas en distintas instituciones puiblicas o en distintos segmentos de una misma
instituci6n, sin alimentarse mutuamente.
3.6.   Las agencias del SIEMPRO han sido decisivas en el fortalecimiento y mejoramiento de la gesti6n de las Areas
sociales y programas a traves de la capacitaci6n, la asistencia tecnica y la transferencia de instrumentos y metodologias
para la instalaci6n de sistemas de informaci6n, evaluaci6n y monitoreo provinciales. Las agencias provinciales desataron
procesos de jerarquizacion de las areas sociales, planificaci6n estratdgica, desarrollo de infraestructura tecnol6gica,
mecanismos de seguimiento y evaluaci6n intemos, transparencia y difusion de la informaci6n.
3.7.   La naturaleza de la conformaci6n del equipo de trabajo del SIEMPRO ha sido un factor decisivo en la capacidad
de producci6n de conocimientos y en su operativizaci6n: con un staff multidisciplinario y plural, el programa ha disefiado
y puesto en funcionamiento una experiencia inedita en el pais, tanto a nivel de las estructuras de la SDS, como en los
niveles subnacionales.
4.     Conclusiones
La instalaci6n de agencias provinciales se destaca como un instrumento de una gran capacidad de penetracion en
los niveles operativos de los programas. Ha sido una buena forma de mantener servicios constantes a las provincias y
esta permitiendo, quizA mas que ninguna otra estrategia del Programa, la institucionalizaci6n de los objetivos del
SIEMPRO en las provincias, que es donde se ejecutan realmente la mayoria de los programas.
El impacto del anAlisis social y de politicas es sin ninguna duda el principal aporte del SIEMPRO a la
modernizaci6n de las politicas sociales, en la medida que representa una linea de act ividad que resume o sintetiza los
avances logrados por el Programa en sus distintas areas de trabajo. Desde ese punto de vista, los multiples documentos de
analisis, de informes y de propuestas elaboradas por el SIEMPRO han permitido justificar o disefiar nuevas
intervenciones para atender problemas sociales especificos.
Los factores que estan relacionados con los exitos del Programa son sobre todo los que se refieren a: a) la
transparencia y universalidad con la que se proporcionan los servicios, b) el nivel tecnico de los equipos del Programa y
c) el respeto en el trato con las provincias y con otros sectores.
La existencia del SIEMPRO a nivel central significa que el pais ha estado avanzando en el fortalecimiento de las
areas sociales con un criterio homogeneo y consistente, al permitir que tanto las jurisdicciones provinciales como el nivel
nacional tuvieran un mismo tipo de capacitaci6n asi como de unificaci6n de leguaje y contenido en la planificaci6n,
evaluaci6n y monitoreo de las politicas y programas sociales. En tal sentido, la legilimidad tecnica de los instrumentos y
metodologias desarrollados por el SIEMPRO ha implicado que todos los programas sociales que actualmente estan en
proceso de formulaci6n o de inicio de ejecuci6n con financiamiento BID, se ha establecido que el calculo de la demanda
potencial, la focalizaci6n, la evaluaci6n y monitoreo sera realizado por el SIEMPRO.
35



Las tareas, cursos y talleres de capacitaci6n sobre gerencia social, planificaci6n de programas, monitoreo y
evaluaci6n, realizados por el SIEMPRO tanto a nivel nacional como en las provincias permiti6 que, una cifra superior a
10.000 personas accedieran a instrumentos, herramientas y desarrollos conceptuales. Ello ha creado condiciones para
hacer comun a nivel nacional y provincial criterios y conceptos, generar habilidades gerenciales, instalar la "cultura" de la
evaluaci6n como practica de gesti6n permanente, se han establecido las bases para la coordinaci6n institucional horizontal
(entre programas nacionales entre si y entre programas provinciales entre si) y vertical (entre programas nacionales y
provinciales).
4.1.   El SIEMPRO como Instrumento de Cambio
La instalaci6n del SIEMPRO y su operaci6n en estos primeros anios de su existencia se asocia, por una parte, a
modificaciones en la institucionalidad social publica, y por otra parte, genera innovaciones en el funcionamiento del area
social del pais. Es decir, el SIEMPRO, mas alla de los desafios pendientes que tiene y de las eventuales rectificaciones
que pueden mejorar sus resultados, ha sido un importante instrumento de cambios en el ambito de las politicas sociales.
IV-   Unidad de Coordinaci6n Administrativa Financiera
1.     Objetivos y funciones
Los objetivos de la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Administrativo- Financiera (UCAF) durante la Etapa Piloto fueron
brindar servicios juridicos, de sistemas, presupuestarios, de control de gesti6n y administrativo- financieros en general a
los componentes B (FOPAR) y C (SIEMPRO) del Proyecto de Proteccion Social LOAN 3957- AR.
1. Logros y Resultados Alcanzados
Los resultados alcanzados en la Etapa Piloto pueden dividirse en dos areas: a) Sistema de Informaci6n, y b)
Administraci6n de los Recursos y Control de Gesti6n
2.a.-  Sistema de Informaci6n
En la Etapa Piloto del Prestamo se disefi6, desarroll6 e implement6 el Sistema de Informaci6n del Prodeso con los
objetivos de:
* Sistematizar el conjunto de procesos que resulten de la actividad del Prodeso
*  Proporcionar informaci6n analitica referida a los proyectos en sus diferentes etapas de desarrollo y en cada uno de los
territorios donde se centre la acci6n, a los desembolsos y reembolsos resultantes de ese accionar.
*  Generar informaci6n gerencial con mayor o menor grado de detalle para asistir en la gesti6n directiva del Programa.
* Asistir en tareas operativas
El contar con un Sistema de informacion que integra las funciones administrativas con las especificas de proyectos, lo
cual permite una gran seguridad en la integralidad de los datos y evita la duplicaci6n de tareas y dispersi6n de esfuerzos,
es un logro importante de esta etapa.
2.2.-  Administraci6n de los Recursos y Control de Gesti6n
En esta Etapa se logr6 diseniar y desarrollar la sistematizacion peri6dica de los Estados Contables y Financieros
del PRODESO, como asi tambien se ha implementado los mecanismos necesarios para satisfacer los requerimientos de
desembolso de fondos a los subproyectos en cada una de la provincias, objetivo del FOPAR.
36



Esto se verific6 en la evaluaci6n expost realizada por el equipo de consultores externos al FOPAR, donde se
advirti6 la transparencia y gesti6n administrativa de los recursos transferidos por el F'OPAR a los beneficiarios de los
subproyectos.
A su vez, se implementaron procedimientos acordes a la normativa del BIRF y de la Secretaria de Desarrollo
Social tendientes a cumplir con las solicitudes de desembolsos y las rendiciones de cuenta de fondos de contrapartida
local, respectivamente.
Es necesario destacar que, debido a la integralidad del sistema de informacion detallada anteriormente, se ha
mantenido la necesaria separaci6n de funciones entre las actividades administrativas en cuanto al manejo de los recursos
y los procesos de control internos de la Unidad.
3.     Lecciones Aprendidas
*  Generar informes especificos de Informaci6n de Gesti6n que faciliten la toma de decisiones, incorporando la nueva
metodologia de gesti6n impulsada por el Banco con la iniciativa LACI y atendiendo la necesidad de planificaci6n y
presupuestacion de las actividades del Programa.
*  Incrementar el uso del sistema de proyectos en las Unidades Provinciales permnitiendo el acceso a la informaci6n en
linea haciendo uso de las posibilidades que brinda la tecnologia Internet. Esto posibilitara, ademas, descentralizar las
tareas de procesamiento de la informaci6n.
-  Incorporar controles cruzados adicionales que permitan minimizar las posibilidades de errores y brindar a los usuarios
elementos adicionales para permitir efectuar controles en fonna semi-automatica2.
37



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29348
200-                                                        60,                                                   so,20
-20.                ?          BOLIVIA                                                                                                             20'-
P ARAGUAY
7-...   \    coa ejur i       u                                              B  R  A    Z  I L
--   SALTA                            - N
Formosai
)  ,5o    -(C  3Tuluman           jCHACO--5 f                       "I
,    -   TUCUMAN                      Resistencia    - Posadas '\'  -
SANTIAGO                        7
L-  ssK  X  ,.g  <3SantiaLgo del 1stro_   _ Crrientes          J
I-   ~~~~~          DEL        ster
J       >,      I, .   Calamarca   dl                  C/
,              '' '*~  LAESTERO                                /
La RiolaO                   --.<  , I C..I
I    ' -s  RIOJA- SA N TA9_.    -
-30            U         AJUAN                                 FE   ,         }                                  ;                                30-
JUAN                      C6rdoba  !Santa   /
@DSan JunFe  ,/Prn
'           _      \ >~,CORRDOBAW                 NTEg\
Mendoza\    San                             RIOS .URSU
uis                             &N.           URUGUAY(
LU\ISAN       I                    Bv euenos Aires
fMENDOZA'  rI
BUENOS
Santa Rosa0
(-  \       :          LA                   AIRES
PAM PA
kNEUGIUENj (
) Neuqu&|
RIO
-40   (  @    NEGRO    Viedma3
- . - -                                          ARGENTINA
o Rowson
-  >   C H U B U T                                               e       PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
- - - - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
. .-  ---    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
j  SANTA
-   -f CRUZ
-50.                                    oGleo                                                                                                      50'-
0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
L     I          I
F       I               I
_  9-t _         -                     2 > ~ /             0      100     200     300    400 Mites
I . . . ' . ' .  i  ' .ztis mop wns pFros-ted by the Map Design Unit of The Word ank,
-= t-; --.--Ush ua ia-                   -rhe bounwadries, alobrs, denmiatia'ons end anyother information shown
ITERRA                              an this map do not imply, on the part of The Wadd Bank Group, any
DEL FUEGO                              judgment an thc legalsitatvs af cm), territaiy, or any endorsement o'r
accepftnce of ,vch boaindaries.
70'  60                       :                                                1
APRIL 1 998



