                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No. 28027 EGT




               PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                     EGYPT

               MATROUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 2504  - EGT)




                                 February 26,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual                official Exchange Rate averages)
CurrencyName: Currency Unit:

1994              US$l.OO = 3.38                       1998           US$l.OO = 3.39
1995              US$l.OO = 3.39                       1999           US$l.OO= 3.39
1996              US$l.OO= 3.39                        2000           US$1 .oo =3.47
1997              US$l .OO = 3.29                      2001           US$l.OO = 3.97

Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAP               CommunityAction Plan
CDD               CommunityDriven Development
CEAs              CommunityExtensionAgents
CGIAR             ConsultativeGroup on InternationalAgriculturalResearch
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
ES                Evaluation Summary
GIS               Global Information System
GOE               Government of Egypt
IAP               InternationalAdvisoryPanel
ICARDA            InternationalCenter for AgriculturalResearchin Dryland Areas
ICR               ImplementationCompletionReport
IDS               IdentificationCards
IFAD              InternationalFund for AgriculturalDevelopment
LC                Local Community
M&E               Monitoringand Evaluation
MALR              Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MARC              MatrouhAdaptive Research Center
MRMC              MatrouhResource ManagementCenter
MRMP 11           MatrouhResource ManagementProject
NGO               Non-GovernmentalOrganization
OED               OperationsEvaluationsDepartment
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PCC               Project CoordinationCommittee
PCU              Project CoordinationUnit
PPAR             Project PerformanceAssessmentReport
QSA               Qualityof SupervisionAssessment
SRMAs             SelectedRange ManagementAreas
WID              Women in Development

Fiscal Year

Government: January 1to December 31

Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department              : Mr. Ajay Chlubber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation .               :  Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr. Ridley Nelson

                                                                i



       OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:first,
 to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto verifythat the Bank's work is producingthe expected
 results,and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the disseminationof lessons
 drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassessesabout 25 percentof the Bank's lending operations. In
 selecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are innovative,large,or complex; those that are
 relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have
 requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generateimportantlessons.The projects,topics, and analytical
 approachesselected for assessment support larger evaluationstudies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion Report
 (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
 examine project files and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit the borrowingcountry for
 onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information
 provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the PPAR
 is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent to the
 borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
 Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved,taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the opportunity
cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest,
Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainabilify:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
makeInstitutional    Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or regionto
       more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                         111


  Contents

  Principal Ratings        ...............................................................................................................   v
  Key Staff Responsible           ........................................................................................................   v
  Preface ................................................................................................................................   ..
  Summary     ...........................................................................................................................   ix
  1 Background
    .                  ..................................................................................................................    1
  2 Findings
    .            ........................................................................................................................    3
          Lessons ....................................................................................................................       5
          Future Directions ....................................................................................................             5
  3 Analysis
   .            .........................................................................................................................    6
          Outcome...................................................................................................................         6
          Relevance.................................................................................................................         7
          Efficacy ....................................................................................................................      7
                   Physical Achievements................................................................................ 7
                   Efficacyof CommunityProcesses............................................................... 9
                   Efficacy of Matrouh Adaptive Research Center........................................                                     10
                   EfficacyIn Reaching Women and the Poorer Households........................                                              11
                   Failure of the Credit Component...............................................................                           12
                   Monitoring and Evaluation and Management ...........................................                                     13
         Efficiency ...............................................................................................................         13
                   High Costs per Household.........................................................................                        13
                   The Economic Analysis.,...........................................................................                       14
                   Cost Recovery............................................................................................                15
         Institutional Development .....................................................................................                    15
         Sustainability.,........................................................................................................          16
                   Water Balance............................................................................................               18
         Bank Performance .................................................................................................                18
         Borrower Performance..........................................................................................                    19
  Annex A Basic Data Sheet                                                                                                                 21
  Annex B  ..Comments                      .............................................................................................
                               from the Government                      .................................................................. 25




1 The
  assistance in the field with focus group meetings and analysis from Dr.Morsy Fawzy Morsy.
  This report was prepared by Ridley Nelson. who assessed the project in February 2003 with

      report was edited by William.Hurlbut. andHelen Phillip provided administrative support.                                                    I


                                                V


Principal Ratings
                                  ICR              ICR Review             PPAR
~-      __
Outcome       ~               Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Institutional Development      Substantial          Substantial         Substantial
Impact
Sustainability                   Likely                Likely             Likely
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Bank Performance              Satisfactorv         Satisfactorv         Satisfactorv
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible
operational division of the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks
to independently verify the findings of the ICR.

Key Staff Responsible
                            Task Manager         Division Chief       Country Director
Appraisal                   Bachir Souhlal      Ngozi Okonjo-lweala    Ram Chopra
Midterm                    Nejdet AI Salihi        Petros Akilu       Mahmood Ayub
Completion                Marie-Helene Collion     Petros Akilu       Mahmood Ayub


                                                        vii


 Preface

          This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Egypt Matrouh
Resource Management Project for which a credit of SDR 15.9million (US$22 million
 equivalent) was approved on May 27, 1993. The project closed on December 31,2002, one
year behind schedule. The final total disbursed was US$21.43 million equivalent to 97% of
the original amount. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR)was submitted on June 3,
2003 (Report no. 26023).

          The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based on
the Implementation Completion Report, the President's Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, and review of Bank files. The project was discussed with Bank staff,
beneficiaries, and government staff at the central, provincial and district levels. The mission
was in the field for ten days and undertook field visits to the project area. Communities to be
visited were selected at random with some subsequent accommodation to travel efficiency.
Additional focus group sessions were carried out by a consultant                -    14focus groups in 7
communities, including both men and women. This was as a part of an associated OED
Community-Driven Development study'. The cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders
and government officials is gratefully acknowledged, as is the support of the staff of the
World Bank Country Office in Egypt.

         The ICR is generally clear, informative, and well presented, although it leaves some
room for further drawing of lessons and, due to very recent changes, is now somewhat out of
date with respect to the latest status on sustainability. The main reason for selecting this
project for a performance assessment was to evaluate a project that was said to have
performed well in the area of Community Driven Development (CDD), since this is a current
study topic for OED. Moreover it was valuable to assess a project with a proposed follow-on
project to understand a case of evolution in Bank and borrower thinking. Following standard
OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments before being
finalized. These are appended as Annex B.




1. The mission was free to select and talk to any households it chose but, in the traditional Bedouin society, was
unable to talk directly to women. However, with support fromtwo lady assistantsincluding a Bedouin lady
enumerator, a focus group form of questionnaire was applied to a sample of women groups.


                                                  ix


 Summary

        The impact of CommunityDriven Development(CDD) is of particular interest to the
 Bank given the large number of projects adopting this approach.The experience of Egypt's
 Matrouh ResourceManagement Project offers some important lessons for this type of
 intervention.

        The main objectives of the project were to:

        (i)     implement a program of sustainable natural resource management in order to
                conserve the water, land and vegetative resources of the area.
        (ii)    alleviate poverty and improve the quality of life of the local Bedouin
                population. The underlying strategywas to develop a structure within the
                traditional tribal systemthat would encourage active participation by the local
                Bedouin community in the sustainable management of the natural resource
                base and in alleviatingrural poverty.

        There were seven main components:

                   Water Harvesting and Watershed Management (US$8.0 million base costs)
                on about 6,000 feddans (one feddan equals 1.038acres), including
                underground cisterns for drinking water and supplementary irrigation, and
                construction of dikes to slow surface runoff and reduce erosion.
                   Rangeland and Grazing Management (US$1.8 million base costs)
                supporting the planting of trees and shrubs on 12,000 feddans of communal
                lands and over-seeding of some 2,000 feddans.
                   Adaptive Research (US$3.3 million base costs) supportingthe constructionof
                research facilities at the MatrouhResource Management Center (MRMC)to test
                and disseminatetechnologies and an agricultural trainingcenterto train staff,An
                internationaladvisorypanel was provided for.
                   Extension and Training (US$4.4 million base costs) for the establishment of
                an effective agricultural extension service including a multimedia unit.
                   Rural Finance (US$3.8 million), a pilot credit program as a special loan
                fund administered on behalf of GOE by participating banks.
                   Project Management and Coordination (US$1.8 million base costs),
                including a Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
                   Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.6 million base costs).

       OED rates outcome satisfactory, despite some concerns regarding project economics
and thus efficiency; sustainability is rated likely, albeit with several concerns to be addressed
by the follow-on project; and institutional development impact is rated substantial considering
the very traditional Bedouin social environment the project had to deal with and the extent to
which the project, after a slow start, moved ahead of other community-based projects in Egypt
in promoting mechanisms for community interaction. Bank performance and borrower
performance are both rated satisfactory.

                                                 X


        A very slowproject start resulted in many of the investmentsbeing made based on a
truncated version of the eventual full consultationand planning process. However,the processes
did eventuallycatch up and they now represent an importanttested mechanism for consultation
and prioritizationwith communities.It did not reach a full community-baseddevelopment
approachincludingcommunitycontrol over funds. Moreover, the support for women, while
greatly strengthened duringimplementationover the appraisalproposal, remainedrelatively
modest. However,progress with women's' componentscannot be expected to be fast in such a
traditional society.

        There are someparticularconcerns about the on-goingprivatizationof Bedouin
rangelands,which has the potentialto be both inequitableand a constraint to sustainablerange
managementin a highly spatiallyand temporallyvariable low rainfall environment.A studyis
proposed to better understand the potential social and resource management impacts.

   The experience of this project confirms several familiar lessons:

9 Participatoryapproachestaketime.Theyneedaninitialphase-inperiodofskills
   development and community interaction alongside sufficient investment incentives to
   motivate participation.

9 Participatoryapproachesinvolvingwomeninahighlytraditionalsocietyarelikelytotake
   even longer to reach some minimum level of sustainability.

9 IndependentPCUsaretemptingforimmediateimplementationbenefitsinaslow-moving
   bureaucracy, but they have a cost subsequentlyin terms of sustainability. They maybe
   justified initially, under some circumstances,in a pilot demonstration of new processes if the
   alternativeis failure.However, such a pilot still leavesthe longer-term institutionalquestions
   unanswered and institutionalsustainabilitylies at the heart of the developmentprocess.

9 Addressingshorter-ternwelfareandpovertyisanimportantpreconditionforultimately
   addressing longer-term natural resource sustainability.

9 Participatorydevelopmentprocessesatthevillagelevelhavethepotentialtoimproveall
   public services and reduce overall consultation burdens on the community. Yet,
   difficulties of coordination between programs often limit such processes to only one
   program, leaving others to follow different approaches with the same community. This is
   less effective and efficient.


                                                              GregoryK. Ingram
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                                   1


 1.      Background
 1.1     The government of Egypt is attaching increasingpriority to sustainable environmental
 management and particularly to natural resource conservation in arid areas for both welfare
 and environmental reasons. Egypt is aiming at an agricultural growth rate of over four percent.
 Agriculture's share of GDP has fallen to about 17percent, but the sector remains important to
 the economy. Egypt is a food deficit country, importing nearly 40 percent of its food. Since
 the mid-1970sthe agricultural sector has shown a reasonable growth rate of two percent per
 annum but the aim is to raise this substantiallywhile ensuring sustainability. Although 90
 percent of agricultural land is irrigated, a number of rainfed areas remain important including
 the Bedouin Matrouh coastal area and hinterland, especially for livestock and tree crops such
 as figs and olives.

 1.2     In 1987the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) initiated a reform
 program including removal of crop area assignments and delivery quotas, abolition of feed
 and fertilizer subsidies, promotion of the private sector, raising land rents, privatization of
 public agricultural production companies, and liberalization of agricultural product prices.
 Impressive gains in output followed as farmers responded to improved technology and price
incentives. The growth rate of 4 percent is expected to be achieved by the creation of new land
through reclamation, increased yields of traditional crops, increased production from high-
value horticultural crops, and increased livestock production exploiting a technical
comparative advantage in the production of green fodder crops and a cost comparative
advantage through low labor costs. The strategyplaces heavy reliance on the private sector for
production, processing and marketing, and many services.

 1.3     The MALR still hasjurisdiction and control of many agriculture-related services,
particularly in frontier areas like the Matrouh Governorate. The services are provided through
the Department of Agriculture and Department of Veterinary Services, which are
administratively responsible to the Governor but technically responsible to MALR.

1.4      The project area in Matrouh Governorate extends 320 kilometers along the
Mediterranean coast from Ras-El-Hekma in the East to Salloum, on the Libya border, in the
West, extending some 60 kilometers inland. Annual rainfall averages 147millimeters along
the coast and for about 20 kilometers inland, dropping rapidly inland to about 50 millimeters.
There is estimated to be about 33 million cubic meters of surface runoff of which 23 million
cubic meters is already harvested leaving about 8 million cubic meters useable still available,
only enough to serve an additional arable area of around 7,000 feddans.' However, there are
widely differing estimates on water availability. Some suggest much more is available.

1.5     Agriculture in the project area is essentially a livestock-tree crop system with cropped
barley as a livestock feed. The land is government owned, but the government has recognized
the de facto usufruct rights of established tribal territories and the usufruct system of land


2. One feddan equals 1.038acres.

                                                 2


tenure has been sustained. However, a program to assign land titles has been underway for
some years and about 25 percent of land holdings now have titles, thus Bedouin rangelands
are gradually being privatized consolidating an on-going process of sedentarization of
historically pastoral nomads. About 16percent of the land is arable with about 113,000
feddans of orchards (the potential is considered to be about 200,000 feddans) and about
128,000to 290,000 feddans of barley, depending on rainfall. About 43 percent of the area is
dense to medium rangeland and about 38 percent is very sparse rangeland. There are about
630,000 small ruminants and 20,000 camels. Some farmersbelieve the rangeland is degraded,
but most believe it is due to drought more than over-grazing.

1.6     The people in the project area are entirely Bedouin. There are six major tribes with 42
sub-tribes, each with about 7 to 9 clans (of about 5 to 7 generations depth). Within each clan
there are typically about 50 households with between 7 to 12hamlets. Nuclear families are
rare. Very few any longer live in tents. They are now largely settled with a variable quality of
permanent housing but still with movement of livestock to follow grazing needs. However,
movement is much reduced over 30 to 40 years ago and degradation is said to have increased.
There are long-established community conflict resolution structures and processes, such as
camel committees or sheep and goat committees and well-established rules for the resolution
of feuds.

1.7    Objectives. The stated objectives of the project were: first, to implement aprogram of
sustainable natural resource management in order to conserve the water, land and vegetative
resources of the area; and second, to alleviatepoverty and to improve the quality of life of the
local Bedouinpopulation.

1.8    Components. There were seven main components:

               Water Harvesting and Watershed Management (US$S.Omillion base costs) on
               about 6,000 feddans, including underground cisterns for supplementary
               irrigation of orchards, watering livestock, and drip irrigation, construction of
               small earth and stone dikes to slow surface runoff, for cereal and fodder
               production, construction of small cement dikes across wadis to slow flood flow
               and reduce erosion but also trap sediment. This component also included a Soil
               and Water Management Unit and a Climatological Subunit.

               Rangeland and Grazing Management (US$1.8 million base costs). The project
               supported the planting of trees and shrubs on 12,000feddans of communal
               lands and the over-seeding of some 2,000 feddans of deteriorated rangeland.
               Provision was made for the establishment of small nurseries.

              Adaptive Research (US$3.3 million base costs). The project supported the
               construction of new research facilities at the Matrouh Resource Management
              Center (MRMC), which was to develop, test, and disseminate relevant
              technologies for the area's fragile natural resources, and an agricultural training
              center to train staff. An international advisory panel for MRMC was provided
              for.

                                                     3


                    Extension and Training (US$4.4 million base costs) for the establishment of an
                    effective agricultural extension service, including the creation of a small
                    multimedia unit, Subject Matter Specialists, and support for Community
                    Extension Agents (CEAs) through a nominal fee to help in extension and in the
                    formulation and implementation of CommunityAction Plans.

                    Rural Finance (US$3.8 million), a pilot credit program as a special loan fund
                    administered on behalf of the government of Egypt by participating banks.

                    Project Management and Coordination (US$1.8 million base costs), including
                    a Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

                    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.6 million base costs) to cover project
                    activities at the community level, performance of the executing agencies,
                    socioeconomic impact, and changes in the natural resources base.

1.9       The underlying strategywas to develop the structurewithin the traditionaltribal system
to make it an effectivemechanism to encourage activeparticipation by the local communityin
sustainablemanagement of the natural resourcebase and in alleviatingpoverty. The approach
divided the area into 38 Local Communities (LC)based on geographic and tribal profiles. Each
LC selected a number of representatives.Each LC prepared and implementeda Community
Action Plan (CAP).However, as noted above, due to delays in preparation of CAPSthe PCU
undertook implementationusing preliminary"action contracts" until the CAPswere formulated.
Therefore,the CAPs themselvesdid not directlycontribute much to investment or beneficiary
selection,although the earlystages of the process sometimes did. They will, however, be very
important as a basis for the secondproject.

2.        Findings3
2.1       The project design largely delivered what it set out to do, but with a substantial, and
appropriate, swing from the environmental objectives towards the welfare objectives                 -  very
little on rangelands, much more than was planned on water cisterns for domestic use and
supplementary irrigation. There were a number of important achievements in agricultural or
horticultural intensification. As a first community participation program, it made an important
local and national contribution in learning processes for community driven development.
Indeed, it has been a valuable national laboratory, albeit in a somewhat atypical (for Egypt)
social and physical environment. However, there were a number of weaknesses that affected
poverty focus, efficiency, and sustainability:

          0   The Community Action Plans (CAPs) were so delayed that they played a limited
              role in project interventions. While there was consultation, much of the project
              allocation was still done on the basis of top-down planning with consultation

3. The Bank Region largely concurs with the OED findingsbut points raised by them are noted at the relevant
place in the report.

                                                       4


             mostly with elected male leaders only. However, the CAPSwere completed
             between 1996 and 2000 and will now play an important role in the follow-on
             project (para. 3.7).

             The total project cost per household of $3,167 ($33,060,000 divided by 10,440
             households) was high relative to most projects gl~bally,~although this is partly due
             to the high costs of household water cisterns for domestic water. There is a need to
             explore lower costs through cost recovery, institutional process savings,
             complementarity of support services, greater hand-over to communities, etc. (para.
             3.17).

             Some assumptions in the economic rate of return analysis seem optimistic. First,
             no increased productivity is attributed in the without project scenario. Second, ICR
             estimates of adoption of improved technologies in barley and in forage appear
             optimistic against what is observed in the field. However, the substantial
             achievements, far beyond the target, in the provision of cisterns for domestic water
             is likely to have a high, although difficult to estimate, health and labor saving
             benefit. If it could be valued, this benefit would probably counteract any downward
             adjustment in the barley or forage productivity benefit streams (para. 3.18).

             Notwithstanding attempts to direct investments towards the disadvantaged, as is
             often the case with interventions related to land and water, the data still show some
             regressive bias towards the larger landowners (para. 3.12).

             The privatization of rangelands, which is being undertaken by Bedouin choice and
            with government support, is likely to make future improvements in rangeland
            management very difficult. There is also the risk of the poorer households losing
             land in a "land grab" (para. 3.32).

            There are questions about sustainability.First, the new government and
            community-level processes introduced (many of them quite late in the project)
            remain fragile and may not even achieve full sustainability by the end of the
            second project, particularly for elements related to development for women which
            are more difficult and started later. Second, recent substantial salary reductions
            have contributed to an alarming loss of staff, if not morale. Third, the future of the
            Matrouh Adaptive Research Center (MARC) is in doubt in the absence of an
            institutional "home" and yet adaptive research is still extremely important. Fourth,
            the re-absorption of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) back into the parent
            departments is a sustainability "debt" from separating it in the first place that is
            still to be paid off (para. 3.25 to 3.33).

4. See OED report "The Next Ascent -An Evaluation of the Aga Khan Rural Support Program, Pakistan" Table
C1 for some comparators. For example, the average for that program was about $385 per household over 5 years
and for IFAD Pakistan Barani Project about $705 per household. IFAD's average globally was estimated to be
about $420 per household.

                                                       5


          Mostly, these weaknesses have been thoughtfully addressed in the follow-on pr~ject.~

 LESSONS

          9 Participatoryapproachestake time. Theyneed aninitialphase-inperiod of skills
              development and community interaction alongside sufficient investment incentives
              to motivate participation.

          9 Participatory approachesinvolvingwomen in ahighlytraditional societyarelikely
              to take even longer to reach some minimum level of sustainability.

          9 IndependentPCUsaretemptingforimmediateimplementationbenefitsina
              bureaucracy, but they have a cost subsequentlyin terms of sustainability. Theymay
              bejustified initially, under some circumstances,in a pilot demonstrationof new
              processes if the alternative is failure. However, such a pilot still leaves the longer-
              term institutionalquestionsunansweredand institutionalsustainabilitylies at the
              heart of the developmentprocess.

          9 Addressing shorter-termwelfare andpovertyis animportantprecondition for
             ultimately addressing longer-term natural resource sustainability.

         9 Participatorydevelopmentprocesses atthe villagelevelhavethepotential to
             improve all public services and reduce overall consultation burdens on the
             community. Yet, difficulties of coordination between programs often limit such
             processes to only one program, leaving others to follow different approaches with
             the same community. This is less effective and efficient.

FUTUREDIRECTIONS

2.2      For both the Bank and the borrower a number of issues warrant attention in the sector
in the Matrouh Governorate for the future:

2.3      The quite detailed community-based processes for investment prioritization developed
under the MRMP are different from the more traditional, more wholesale, approaches
followed by other national programs such as the Social Fund and Shrouk. The application of
the same or similar processes through the same groups for all programs would be much more
efficient and would improve local, governorate, and national coordination. Coordination needs
to be at community level as well as governorate and national levels.

2.4     The rangeland privatization currently underway with government support, while a
complicated issue, has the potential to make improved rangeland management more difficult
and to result in the poorer households and sub-clans losing land access. A study of this issue is


5.At the time of writing the follow-onproject was awaiting cabinet clearance.

                                                 6


needed to clarify what ownership patterns are emerging and how reciprocal grazing
arrangements are actually changing.

2.5     Adaptive Research remains extremely important for the future. The Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) for the second project seems to suggest that technologies are now largely
known and it is now more an issue of extending them to farmers. A similar view is expressed
in the 2001 IFAD Formulation Report. This OED PPAR differs on that assessment, finding
many remaining unresolved technical questions and technical opportunities still needing
substantial further adaptive research.

2.6     Representative farmers should be on the Project Coordinating Committee to enhance
local involvement.

2.7
participatory project should be questioned since the community itself should be able to
        The need for individual or family IDSto receive investment assistance in such a
identify those who should not receive a benefit (the issue of "double-dipping"). But, in any
case, if IDSare really required by government, all potential beneficiaries should be assisted to
get IDSquickly so that there is no risk of a bias against the poor.

2.8     Processes need to be further refined to target the poor. Poverty targeting is never easy
in agriculture because of the link between physical land and water investments and land asset
ownership, but ways can be found to target poverty-focused investments. Such approaches
may have some costs in the context of a physical watershed catchment context, but they
should have benefits in a socialAivelihoodscontext.

2.9     Maintaining staff incentives for the next project will be extremely important for
sustainability. The success of the first project has been largely due to skilled and unusually
dedicated staff. It would be most unfortunate to see this dissipate.

3.      Analysis

OUTCOME

3.1     Outcome is rated satisfactory. The project was relevant and
effective although, with a borderline ERR, of somewhat marginal                In the end the project
efficiency depending on the value assigned to domestic water and the           met more objectives
associated health benefits and the water transporting burden on women                  to welfare than
and children, including children's education.                                  to environment
                                                                               (defining cisterns as
                                                                               predominantly welfare
                                                                               investments). But this
                                                                               shift was relevant to
                                                                               people's needs.

                                                           7


 RELEVANCE

 3.2       Relevance of the project is assessed as substantiaL6The objectives were clearly
 consistentwith both the Bank's and borrower's strategy,both at the time and now. However,the
 trade-offsbetween the naturalresource management objectiveand the poverty objectivewere
 not fullyfaced at appraisal.The greater focus on poverty now intendedunder the follow-on
 project probablywould have been better also in the first project to deal aggressivelywith poverty
 first, enabling a transitionto more longer-term environmentalconcernsin the secondproject
 once immediate short-termhuman needs were met.

 EFFICACY

 3.3      Overall, efficacy-the       extent to which the project objectives were achieved taking into
 account their relative importance-is           rated as substantial.However, within this rating there
 are definitional questions related to the extent to which particular investments contributed
 predominantly to one or other of the two main objectives -environment or poverty/welfare.
 In this first project, the environmental objective appears to have been given prominence in
 project design. Yet with the substantial increase over what was planned in investment in water
 cisterns, largely for domestic or livestock use, and the substantial reduction in treatment and
 management of rangelands over what was planned, it appears that the project swung away
 significantly from the priority environment objective towards the poverty, welfare, and growth
 objective. (It is argued here that the substantial increase in investment in water cisterns
 represents more a poverty intervention than an environmental interventi~n.~)Thus, longer-
 term environmental impact was less than intended, and shorter-term welfare impact more than
 intended. But this was probably an appropriate redirection and it has been sustained into the
proposed follow-on project. In the absence of any significant gains in rangeland management
beyond the forage planting, achievement of the longer-term environmental objectives was
modest.

Physical Achievements

3.4       The Impact Study of July 2001 found the following: 58 percent of potential
beneficiaries believed they had increased incomes as a result of the project; large and medium
farmers gained more than small farmers (54 percent of small farmers estimated net income
increase against 31percent for medium farmers and 23 percent for large farmers); adoption of
the improved barley variety varied widely across Districts but was about 50 percent of crop

6. One relevance question for which there is so far insufficient data to answer is whether project investments such
as domestic and livestock water sources that enable people to remain in this very dry area are even appropriate.
They are appropriate if average past rainfall is sustained but arguably inappropriate if the recent three years of
drought and earlier dry spells were to be revealed to be the early stages of a longer-term decline in rainfall. So far
rainfall data does not support such a finding. Unfortunately, meteorological stations are insufficiently spread
inland to pick up this type of information in the inland rangeland zone.
7. For water investments to qualify as serving predominantly environmental objectives they would be expected to
impact on the hydrological cycle itself in some way -which was not the case in this project.

                                                          8


 producers, somewhat less for small producers, somewhat more for large producers'; 58
 percent of households were supported by the project to get one or more water harvesting
 structures -43 percent of those supported were small farmers, 29 percent medium, and 28
 percent large. About 51percent of the total sample benefited from project supported
 horticulture improvement with the largest share (about 40 percent) going to small farmers.
 About 36 percent of the total sample benefited from the livestock improvement technologies
 disseminated by the project. About 40 percent of the total samplebenefited from range
 improvement technologies, but there were few changes in grazing management practices.
However, the survival rates of planted forage on 66% of Selected Range Management Areas
 (SRMAs) were reported to be over 70% which is good for such an environment and fodder
units produced are estimated at many times the appraisalprojection. Beneficiaries transplanted
 over 400,000 seedlings of fodder shrubs, 47 percent by large range holders, 39 percent by
medium, and 14percent by small.

3.5       Data on actual outcomes or impacts are limited. Surveydata and field observation
show that there has been an increase in water storage. Observation at treated sites suggests
some improvement in erosion control and land management generally. Remote sensing
imagery suggests some improvement in vegetative cover but, surprisingly, more improvement
in the inland range areas than the intermediate zone and, given the lack of progress on range
management, this is probably not an attributable project impact. Thirty-eight Community
Action Plans were implemented, the same number as planned, but as noted, these were
initiated quite late so they only partially impacted the communityprocesses and investments.
Some 1.2million cubic meters in water storage facilities were constructed, exceeding the
appraisal target by about five times. 4,236 feddans of crop and rangeland benefited from dike
construction, a little over half the total dike-fed area planned under both water harvesting and
watershed management components. Shrubs were planted on 18,224feddans and over-seeding
carried out on 4,710 feddans of rangeland (about 50 percent higher than planned). 6.4 million
fodder shrub seedlings were transplanted, some in large fenced areas, some in small fenced
areas, and some in barley fields.

3.6      The project got off to a very slow start, disbursing only          The community
19percent of funds by the fourth year. This was partly because              processesput in place
implementation had been embedded within the technical                       involved substantially
departments of the Governorate and the PCU had no authority.                more participatory
While fixing this through creating a semi-independent PCU                   consultationthan other
with all the implementation capacity gave the project a new                 programsin Egypt. Such
lease of life at a criticaljuncture, it also leaves it with a               participatoryprocesses
substantial institutional burden for the future in relation to              could contributeto all
sustainability and the challenge of re-absorption back into the             programswhile
technical departments in due course.                                        enhancingoperational
                                                                            efficiency and
                                                                            coordinationat the
                                                                            communitylevel.

8. Mission interviews in the field did not support such a high percentage.

                                                  9


 Efficacy of Community Processes

 3.7    As noted above, the establishment of the communityprocesses mostly came too late.
 Moreover,the focus group discussionsfor this assessment in the field suggestedthat, at the start,
 most communitiesdid not fullyunderstand the approach. It was a new concept and staff
 themselveswere not familiar with it either. The focus goups also suggested that, with increased
 understanding,for the secondproject communities are tending to choseyounger more educated
persons to represent them. There were delaysin training so that the communityplanning
 exercises only startedin the last two to three years. The majorityof investmentsfinancedunder
the project were thereforenot selectedon the basis of the full communityinvolvement but
through a shorter,less documented,process. This arosemainly from pressuresto disbursefinds.
However, it could be argued that quick investments were needed not simply for disbursement
 but tosustain community and leader interest in the developmentof theprocesses.Indeed, a
number of NGOs globallydo follow apractice of quicklyputting in a communityinvestment
 selectionupfront as the initial enticement.

3.8     The structures and processes put in place under this project were arguablythe first
partial community development project processes attempted in Egypt. The mission held
discussions with managers in a number of other projects and programs for comparators -
including the Social Fund, the Population Project, and the Shrouk Project, and, at the
governorate level, with health and education ministry staff. Based on these comparators the
Matrouh Resource Management Project has clearlyprogressed much farther than these other
programs in the establishment of participatory processes although not as far as a full
Community Driven Development (CDD) process, and, inevitably, at considerable cost           -  such
participatory processes are staff intensive and not cheap. As a result there is, in fact, a
significant disparity between the detailed interaction and planning that has been going on
under MRMP and the more arm's-length, wholesale process under most of the other
programs. For efficiency, all programs could benefit from a common (rather than parallel)
community interaction prioritization process, perhaps with special-interest subgroups,
particularly to support the poorer households and women. A common participatory process
would be more efficient at the community level by reducing meetings and addressing
coordination and trade-offs and thus, ultimately, spreading program overheads.

3.9     Questions remain about the extent to which the participatory approach was really put
in place sustainably, and about the extent to which it reached a depth to at least begin to
address the poverty aspect. In assessing performance on this due regard needs to be given to
the exceptionally traditional nature of Bedouin society and the place of women. Realistic
expectations about rates of progress in such a traditional society are important. The focus
group discussions suggested that more attention to socio-economic characteristics at the outset
would have helped, including, for example, better understanding of the strong and quite
widespread Islamic concerns about credit and some informational campaigns to develop and
present acceptable options on this issue. The project supported the creation of local
community committees that were project-specific, but with overlap with the existing
community decision-making structures. The representatives were selected by common consent
rather than elected and have clearly been, if not entirely the elite, certainly mostly the less
poor. While the project consultative and planning processes do appear to have put some

                                                          10


pressure on the traditional system to avoid "elite capture" and to accommodate the needs of
the disadvantaged, the data quoted in this report on the extent to which the distribution of
investments still did not match the distribution of households across land-holding size classes
shows that it was not entirely successful. The concerns raised in this report about range
privatization is part of the same issue. For the kture, these committees (LCs) remain
vulnerable in the absence of a project funding flow and a "home" within the established
decision-making system. A follow-on project will help to consolidate their status and move
further on mechanisms to empower the disadvantaged'. The objective should be to consolidate
apermanentplacefor such community drivenplanning with an equityfocus, linked to the
existing decision system and able to challenge and support, but not supplant, that system.

Efficacy of Matrouh Adaptive Research Center

3.10      The center carried out some important work during the project in a number of areas,
including barley" and forageproduction, livestock genetic improvement, urea treatment of
straw, improved pruning and biological pest control in olives and figs, and applying demand-
driven adaptive research procedures. Some of this work has continued since the project close"
while funds are awaited from the follow-on project. An International Advisory Panel (IAP)
consisting of four experts -in soils and water, rangeland management, animal husbandry,
and farming systems -made a very important contribution in the early stages of MARC
development. However, much adaptive research work remains to be done to address further
location-specific technical questions and to further develop improved varieties.'*With respect
to knowledge transfer, based on farmer responses, only 4% named mass media and sources
other than personal contact as their source of technical information. There appears to be room
for substantial improvement in this area. Appropriateness of content and relevance of
messages needs investigation. Are the current off-the-shelf technologies really as applicable
and adapted and risk accommodating to the range of soil and water micro-environments as
they are claimed to be?


'The   borrower comments (Annex B) that in the second phase representatives of local communities will be in the
Project Coordination Committee as well as other local and regional committees to enhance local involvement.
10.The ICR says that a notable achievement was the selection of the improved barley variety Giza-126. But this
variety was actually released earlier than the project although the extension of this variety to farmers was strongly
supported by the project.
11.The mission observed a workshop with farmers related to selection of awnless barley varieties organized by
MARC with assistance from an ICARDA scientist.
12.In the forage research, one weakness is that the main experiments have compared forage growth inside and
outside enclosures using cutting at different heights and times. While this gives useful information about forage
productivity under the defined management conditions (which may only partially model livestock harvesting) the
comparative productivity of forage outside the fence is still not known because t h ~ scontrol is harvested to an
unrecorded extent by livestock outside the fence. (In dryland forage research with an environmental focus there is
always the risk that volume of standing forage is equated with productivity. Often - although by no means always
because of the benefits of animal impact - the most visually impressive groundcover is evident in 100%closure
plots, but these will have given zero productivity!)

                                                         11


 Efficacy In Reaching Women and the Poorer Households                             Notwithstanding what

 3.11     With respect to the extent of women 's involvement,the                  seem to have been

 Matrouh Bedouin society is possibly the most conservative                        genuine attempts by the
 social situation ever addressed by a Bank pr~ject.'~Initially,                   project and communities
 there was no Women in Development (WID) component to                             to direct investments
 speak of. A WID component was finally initiated in 1996,but                      towards the
 even then the budget was too small and the program far too                       disadvantaged, because
 tentative for a society in which women have played no                            of land ownership
 significant role in decision-making, The women's component                       patterns the data
 was later expanded substantially in an agreement between the                     suggests that most types
 borrower and the Bank, expanding the areas of support,                           of investment still went
 adding a credit revolving fund, and increasing training.                         disproportionately to the
                                                                                  less poor.
 3.12     With respect to reaching thepoorer households, since
 the project interventions were almost entirely aimed at individually owned assets, such as the
 provision of privately owned water cisterns, dikes on private land, and horticulture trees,
 rather than at communal assets, such as rangeland, targeting of investment grant support was
 important since there was little in the investments of a communal nature as a backstop for the
 poor. In mission discussions the community leaders claimed that they had attempted to direct
 support towards the disadvantaged, and there was anecdotal evidence that this had occurred.
 However, the data suggest this was not entirely successful. For example, water harvesting
 structures, the most important element in the project support, were distributed 43 percent to
 small farmers, 29 percent to medium farmers and 28 percent to large farmers (see Impact
 Study 2001). However, the percentage of small farmers in total beneficiaries is actually 54
percent, medium farmers 26 percent, and large farmers 20 percent. (These important
comparisons between distribution of the different size categories of farmers and the
distribution of benefits were not made either in the Impact Study or the ICR, although the data
were there.) Similarly, beneficiaries from horticulture improvement were distributed across
the total sample in the ratio of 41 percent small farmers, 31 percent medium, 28 percent large.
Thus, the distribution of water harvesting structures and horticulture support failed to match
even the distribution of land asset ownership in the population and thus was actually
somewhat regressive with respect to equity, particularly since large farmers already had, at the
outset, more cisterns or reservoirs and orchard trees than small farmers14.




13.For example, the Bank OED mission (a man) and the local consultant(a man) were completelyunable to talk
to any Bedouin woman in the field.
14.The Bank Region notes that, under Phase 2 during the CAP process, communities are being asked to define
and agree criteria to describe the poorer households in a transparent manner. Lack of legal documentationcan
represent additionalbarriers which it is hoped can be addressedby coordinating with GOE services such as
health, education, etc. The borrower comments (AnnexB) that benefits distribution is not determined onlyby
economic conditions as it fluctuates over time in the region because of rainfall uncertainty but also by technical
issues, etc.

                                                        12


 3.13    The poverty focus appears to have been somewhat                          Lack of ID cards
 affected by the need for identity cards (IDS)for households to be                appears to have
                                              \    ,                              prevented some
 investment items. IDScan be individual or family,but they rely
 able to receive public funding support, at least for certain                     poor from
 on birth registration, which tends not to be done by the poorer                  benefiting from
 households or those in the more remote areas-who also tend                       certain investments.
 to be poorer. While the project made a major effort to creatively
 get around the government ID requirement, a significant number of households probably were
 not able to access some types of benefits for lack of an ID. Work is underway alreadyto try to
 address this issue for the follow-on project.I5

 Failure of the Credit Component

 3.14    The credit component never got off the ground except, eventually, in the form of a
 small LE260,OOOrevolving fund established for the WID program, which achieved a 98
percent recovery rate. Negotiations with local banks fell through due to lack of collateral and
the Islamic proscription against paying interest. The problems were largelypredictable, and, as
is evident from the files, were raised by staff during
preparation and appraisal, but they seem to have been largely                  After ten years there has
ignored by Bank management. Lack of credit is an important                     been no progress on
constraint to agricultural development in the area although                    credit and the new
some credit is obtained through the agricultural cooperatives.                 project still has to carry
It is unfortunate that, following the earlier failure, more work               out a study. This could
was not done under the first project in exploring this issue                   have been done earlier.
further since, under the planned secondproject, it is now                      The study should not
proposed again to initiate a study of the issue and to develop                 neglect the forgotten
recommendations for how to proceed further. Thus, after more                   side of credit -savings.
than 10years, planning for this component under the second
project is really no further forward than it was at the start of
the first project.16Often insufficient attention is given to savings as well as lending. In this
livestock-based society safe and trusted savings opportunities may be even more important
than being able to borrow.




15.The purpose of using IDSin this way -which affects other projects also -is largely to avoid "double
dipping." However, with the type of community consultationprocesses established under this project the
community itself and the elected leaders should be able to spot any "double dipping" without the help of IDS.
16.Presumably what is needed is some form of micro-credit arrangement either through producer associations or
withjoint and several liability withm communitygroups, with service fees upfront in lieu of interest rate, which is
not a burden on government, and with no reliance on collateral which would call for close association with
community groups to enhance lender knowledge. The borrower comments (Annex B) that the project conducted
two studies on the implementation of the Credit Component during the preparation of the second phase. The
component will be implemented independently by a consulting fm.

                                                        13


 Monitoring and Evaluation and Management

 3.15      As is so often the case, monitoring and evaluation started too late. Once operational,
 the M&E Unit established databases for each community, utilized GIS technology, and carried
 out a number of studies including the Impact Study. The Impact Studyundertaken in the last
 year of the project was of some value, but in the absence of quantitative baseline data its
 contribution was limited. Analysis was focused largely on percentage adoptions as opposed to
 quantified impacts, so it could not show incremental gains in productivity. Impacts on women
 were not adequately measured in view of the restrictions on interactions for female members
 of the household. The M&E Unit was not adequately staffed to handle the WID aspect. For
 the follow-on project, now that the M&E Unit is well established, the baseline survey has
 alreadybeen completed. Notwithstanding initially weak M&E, project management was
 strong in the secondpart of the project.

 EFFICIENCY

 3.16     Efficiency is rated substantial, but with reservations -some elements of the benefit
 stream may have been unrealistic and costs per household were high relative to other projects.
 With an overall ERR estimated in the ICR at 13percent, very similar to the 12percent
 estimated at appraisal, there is limited room for
 downward shifts in benefits. Sensitivity analysis suggests             There are a number of

that, if the ICR calculated benefits fell about 20 percent,                        -relatedto
the ERR would fall below the opportunity cost of capital.                adoption levels,
                                                                        productivity, and

High Costs per Household                                                may be overestimated. But
                                                                        attribution -why the ERR
                                                                        uncounted environmental
3.17      For Egypt as a whole, and for the Matrouh                     and social welfare and
Governorate, there is an issue of depth versus coverage.                health benefits probably
This was a high-cost project in terms of total project                  counterbalance this.
costs per household assisted. At $3,166 ($33.06 million
for 10,440 households) over 9 years it is at the top of the
range compared with other natural resource management projects globally. In particular, the
                                                                                         *'
SRMAs were very costly on a household basis and, due to the need for the minimum 25-
feddan forage land, went to the wealthier households, although sub-clan arrangements seem to
have spread those benefits somewhat further. While dryland areas like Matrouh are
particularly challenging and therefore might warrant above-average levels of expenditure
initially to achieve some threshold of action, the low productivity of such areas might also
suggest that onlybelow-average levels of expenditure per household could bejustified.

17. See Table C1 in OED's 2002 PakistanAga Khan Rural Support Program Evaluation for some global
comparators which mostly range from about $300 to $1,000 per household. IFAD averages about $420 per
household over about a six-yearproject period. The borrower comments (AnnexB) that costs are not high in
relation to the physical and socio-economiccircumstances of the area. OED notes that there is certainly a case to
spend substantial amounts to catch up with other areas better endowed for infrastructure.However, it is still,
comparatively, a high figure.

                                                            14


 The Economic Analysis

 3.18      Five areas in the economic analysis are of concern. First, the economic analysis
 carried out for the ICR does not accommodate any "without project" yield increases'*.There
 has been a steady trend of yield increases in barley, which one would have expected to
 continue through the project period. In other words, it is unlikely that all yield gains can be
 attributed the pr~ject'~.    Second, the rangelandbenefits estimated in the ICR at LE400 per
 feddan are high for such a dry area and these constitute about half the aggregate benefit
 stream.20Moreover, there remain a number of technical questions about forage, for example,
 salt content in atriplex, tannins in acacia, and lack of progress with rangeland management
 regimes. Third, the adoption levels of improved barley assumed, which reached approximately
 half the cultivated barley area (project staff claim 45,000 feddans, the economic analysis says
 56,880 feddans), seems optimistic given the low numbers of households in randomly selected
 communities interviewed by the mission who acknowledged the use of improved barley
 varieties in recent years. However, some of this is explained by the three recent dry years,
 which focus groups suggest has impacted on both farm and off-farm productivity and
 incomes. But also relevant in assessing the realism of the agriculture benefit stream is that
 there has been an intermittent lack of availability of appropriate barley varieties fiom the
 Ministry of Agriculture. Furthermore, the improved technologies are much more location-
 specific than is modeled in the simplified ICR analysis. For example, the second cross-
 cultivation recommendation contributing to the claimed higher yields is profitable in
 shallower harder soils but is risky due to wind erosion in sandy soils and not recommended
 there. Fourth, the cost stream in the economic analysisprovides for no maintenance costs
beyond the project period. At least the substantial rangeland benefits would need continued
technical support for many years to come and also, probably, some of the crop technology
benefits, for example horticulture. Fifth, there are questions of attribution of benefit streams,
 for example, the barley variety Giza 126,which has been so important in increasing barley
productivity, was actually released in 1986,well before the project, suggesting that at least
some of the benefit streams from increased barley production belong elsewhere.



 18.The Bank Region notes that the number of farmers using the barley package in any "withoutproject" scenario
would have been small, that seed availabilitywould have been limited, and that data was weak to make such
assumptions.OED argues that it may not have been as small as is suggested and that the pre-project trend would
have given some indication.
19.It is noteworthy that barley farmers still quote yields in terms of ratio of grain harvested to seed, a practice
that is usually consistent with land surplus or at least relatively recent land surplus and low yields. (It is a yield
measurementpractice that persisted in many parts of Europe well into the 18thcentury.) Its persistencehere may
be indicative even now of a phenomenon of plantable land surplus in rainfall surplus years. It is perhaps also
indicative of such wide annual variability of plantable moist land due to rainfall fluctuations and very shallow
surface depressions that good seed (saved or purchased) can become the constraint in hgh rainfall years.
20. At the level of benefits implied by the ICR model, which suggeststhat forage exhibits four times the
profitability of barley, one would expect to be seeing a very substantialshift from barley to forage shrubs on
barley land. This is not happening. The Bank Region agrees that LE 400/fedan is likely on the high side but notes
that data was scarce.

                                                          15


 3.19     However, against the above factors that would lower the rate of return, the ERR
 estimated in the ICR does not include the more difficult to calculate environmental off-site
 and beneficiary health and some welfare impacts, the latter from the substantial increase in
 relatively clean domestic water from cisterns including the social impact of reduced water-
 collection labo?'. Such benefits would shift the benefit stream back in a more positive
 direction. For example, water cisterns in some strategic locations have enabled the placing of
 schools where a school was not possible before and increased domestic water releases
 children from water carryingburdens so that they can go to school. Also, there was evidence
 from field visits that some additional private investment had been triggered by infrastructure
 investment such as roads. Again on the positive side, while there is a very limited land market
 because of modest levels of land adjudication, a few land price increases quoted to the
 mission did seem to reflect quite optimistic expectations of future land returns. Finally, the
 economic analysis for the new project suggests a satisfactory rate of return. Weighing all the
 above factors it is concluded that the true ERR is difficult to estimate but probably marginally
 above the opportunity cost of capital.

 Cost Recovery

 3.20     Initially cost recovery levels, at 60%, proved too high for the poorer households, at
 least for the water harvesting investments. This changed when the World Food Program
provided 40% leaving a 20% beneficiary contribution. While high levels of contribution
 enable greater spread with limited resources it also selects against the poorer households.
 Some form of differential contribution, as suggested by the FAD 2001 Formulation Report
for MRMP I1may be an option but differential contributions can also be divisive in
community-based approaches.

INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT

3.21     Institutional development is rated substantial both at community and government
institutions level. It was particularly impressive relative to other community development
programs, which clearly exhibited significantly less community/public service interaction.
However, at the community level it was still only the first step towards the sustainable
establishment of community-led decision-making and implementation processes. Much
remains to be done under the second project, particularly to enable the poor to have a voice, to
develop processes and skills for greater involvement of women, and to develop longer-tern
community resource seeking and resource planning capacity independent of immediate project
funds availability. Under the project, notwithstanding the electing of community members, the
traditional mechanisms still held substantial influence but were boosted in their capacity to

21. One circumstance in which the benefits of an increased number of cisterns for human or livestock use might
be questionable would be if the recent string of dry years signaled a sustained decline in average rainfall or
deteriorated rainfall distribution since this would suggest a strategy more focused on reducing human reliance on
these marginal areas. However, such a rainfall trend in dryland environments usually cannot be picked up in less
than about ten to fifteen years and is not at present evident in the rainfall data available, although this data is very
limited for the drier inland zones.

                                                          16


 support project interventions through additional processes, the                Given the exceptionally
 CAP planning procedure, interactions with government, and                      traditional Bedouin
 skills development.                                                            society, progress with

 3.22     There was substantial skills development with the                     community

 improvement of the capacity of staff in a new and important                    participation was

 skills area related to community-driven development. While                     impressive. But CDD is

 many of these staff may move on in due course within the                       still only at the early

 ministry, spreading these skills is important for rural                        stages. Much remains to

 development in Egypt more broadly. Indeed, projects like this                  be done with women's

 could be seen as valuable training grounds and laboratories for                involvement, and better

 innovative approaches to rural development.                                    poverty targeting is
                                                                                needed.
 3.23     The Project Coordination Committee appearsto have worked quite well in
 coordination between ministries with rural responsibilities.22The mission met members in
 other sectorswho had found it useful.

 3.24     No NGOs were used in the project, though the project did support the formation of an
 Olive Producers and Processors Association and a Women's Development Association and is
now trying to support an association for fig producers. Beyond these and the local
Cooperatives, unlike other parts of Egypt, there appear to be no active NGOs in the project
 area with a rural productivity focus.

SUSTAINABILITY

3.25      Sustainability is rated likely, although there are a
number of sustainability concerns and, in the absence of the                    While sustainability is
follow-on project, it would not have been rated as likely.                      rated likely, community
There is little doubt that many of the investments, particularly                participation will still
those in cistern water storage will be maintained. They are                     need consolidation under
highly valued and many existing cisterns have been maintained                   the next project,
for two thousand years        -    since Roman times. The same                  particularly WID
almost certainly applies to wadi water control structures.                      elements, and there are
However, there are other sustainability concerns.                               recently emerging
                                                                                concerns about
3.26     First, it is still very early to assess sustainability at all          incentives for project
given the barely consolidated community processes. The                          staff for the follow-on
community groups established generally hnctioned well                           project.
towards the end of the project in the decision-making related

22. As an example of coordination through the PCC, at one meeting there was discussion about how to prioritize
and coordinate the visits of mobile health clinics to the project communitiesand how to manage parasite
campaigns.
23 The Bank Region notes that many of the sustainability concernshave been addressed in the second phase. The
issue of staff salaries is under discussion with GOE.

                                                          17


to project funding. It is somewhat less clear that, in the absence of a project, they would
remain active in developing further ideas for community improvement and in seeking other
resources; a shift which one would hope for if the community processes were fully embedded.
However, there are a few hopeful signs. For example, at a number of the community schools
established, two of which were visited by the mission, communities have established a system
of collecting monthly teachers remuneration.

3.27     Second, the WID activities were very recently started under the first project and have
much further to go to reach sustainability. Indeed, the WID activity will quite possibly require
a third project to reach sustainability, even if other activities reach that point earlier.

3.28     Third,with the second project about to commence, there have been substantial
reductions in project staff salaries not simply in absolute terms but relative to other public
agencies. The skills built up under the first project were rapidly eroding at the time of the
PPAR mission. The government is aware of this and is promising action.

3.29     Fourth, with respect to environmental sustainability, there has been no significant
achievement in enhancing the sustainability of rangeland management, yet rangelands are the
largest portion of the project area, and, being generallyupstream within watersheds, lie at the
heart of overall land sustainability. Moreover, any action initiated on rangelands under the
follow-on project is likely to be a slow process and unlikely to achieve sustainabilitywithin
one project period.

3.30     Fifth, technology remains extremely important but the future of the Matrouh Adaptive
Research Center (MARC) is in doubt. It still has no institutional "home" and, at the time of
the mission, the number of senior research staff handling component programs had fallen from
five to one. While links with ICARDA24have been useful and continued links are highly
desirable, significant reliance on a CGIAR Institute, with funding issues of its own, is not
realistic. The Desert Research Center would appear to be an obvious
"home".
                                                                                          The privatization of
3.31     Sixth, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) which, by                             rangeland has the
separating it from the ministry, was able to substantially enhance                        potential to be
performance during the project, now faces the inevitable challenge of                     inequitable and will
re-absorption both in terms of responsibilities and staff. Generally,                     present problems for
OED has found such separate units to have negative sustainability                        community
implications even if, for the short project period, they have performed                   management of
well and benefited from a degree of independence. The follow-on                           grazing. A study is
project offers a breathing space on this issue. But it is only a breathing               suggested,
space and does not solve the eventual problem. The design of the
follow-on project has, appropriately, taken account of this issue in a


24. The mission was able to interact in the field with an ICARDA barley breeder working on awnless barley who
had found the cooperative work with the project and the farmer interaction in variety selection valuable but who
also expressed concern about sustainability.

                                                 18


number of ways including focus on better links with departments at the governorate level in
Matrouh to enhance post-project sustainability.

3.32    Related to the issue of rangeland improvement and sustainabilityrelated to grazing
management, the privatization of rangelands by the Bedouin, which is currently underway
with support from the government, is likely to make the optimal use of rangelands very
difficult, although such issues are complex. With periods of as much as three to four years of
drought affecting both forage and water, and with highly variable spatial distribution of
rainfall patterns across dryland range areas, management in largeblocks with agreed rules of
grazing timing and access is likely to be easier than multiple private reciprocal arrangements
between large numbers of individual or subclan owners with individually nonviable grazing
blocks. Trading of privately owned grazing rights is likely to be very difficult in practice with
so many owners especially in the absence of a system of stock routes. While the shift to
privatization of rangelands may have gone too far to halt, the implications of this shift warrant
quite urgent study to understand to what extent the poorer Bedouin sub-clans or households
are loosing land access, what options remain for reciprocal arrangements, and how technically
and socially such areas might be better managed for sustainability in the future. It may be that
there is a rather small window of opportunity to put in place community grazing arrangements
before private ownership precludes a number of choices. In a few countries such rangeland
privatization in dry land environments has degenerated into little more than a "land grab" by
the wealthy, notwithstanding the existence of traditional social safety nets and reciprocity.
This issue warrants a study to better understand what is happening socially, especiallyto range
access for the poor, and what the resourcemanagement options and impactsmight be.

Water Balance

3.33    Based on experience elsewhere, the mission went to the field with some concerns
about water structures up-stream taking water from those lower down and thus, in effect,
shifting water uphill from one set of beneficiaries to another. The planning systems in place
do attempt to address that concern and to some extent appear to have done so (e.g. by capacity
and height of spillway design) But the extreme volumes of peak flow and low frequencies
make such planning difficult -highly dependent on such parameters as rainfall intensity and
frequency assumptions. The IFAD report rightly notes the importance under MRMP 11of
planning technology and skills in this area. More meteorological stations inland will be
important.

BANKPERFORMANCE

3.34    Bank performance was satisfactory, although the almost inevitable slow start could
have been better forecast and the problems more promptly addressed. This was an innovative
project establishing community based development processes for the first time with few other
experiences in Egypt to draw from. Preparation and appraisal was generally sound. During
preparation participatory rapid rural appraisal techniques were used. It was generally
acknowledged by government staff and beneficiaries that the Bank had brought ideas and
skills on community development approaches but there had been also some learning from one

                                                 19


 or two precursor projects. The International Advisory Panel on research was important in the
 transfer of experience.

 3.35    Strangely,this project never had a formal Staff Appraisal Report, only a President's
 Report. However, there was a report called an ImplementationProject File in which the 30-
 page Technical Annex followed a standard Staff Appraisal Report outline, including legal
 agreements. In this particular case there is no evidence that this drift from normal procedures
 caused any of the weaknesses identified, and peer reviewer comments were forthcoming and
 were handled in the usual way. However, potentially such process deviations could reduce
 exposure to management and peer review comments, at least on issues outlined more fully in
 the appraisal report than in the shorter President's Report. It is a deviation not to be
recommended.

 3.36    In anyproject that takes nearly 9 years to closing there must be questions about early
planning and readiness. While borrower performance in the initial three years was not strong,
 such community-based interventions almost invariably do take a long time. There do appearto
have been unrealistic expectations about the speedwith which such new processes could be
introduced and skills developed, but excusable perhaps in a first country project in this new
direction of community participation.

3.37    Supervision was generally satisfactory and flexible. In 1997, a Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA) had rated some of the supervision aspects as marginal, including focus on
development impact, actions taken and follow-up, and relations to donors and other
stakeholders during supervision. However, these issues were addressed subsequently and two
Mid-term Reviews were undertaken. There was good continuity in the supervision team and
close involvement of the country office.

3.38    With respect to the follow-on project, the Bank appears to have absorbed the lessons
of the first project very well. Somewhat more focus on the issue of land policy and on the
need for strong continued adaptive research would have been desirable.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE

3.39    Borrower performance is rated satisfactory on balance. However, implementation
over the first four years was very slow with very little implementation of the watershed
activities. At that time there was patchy project management commitment to the community
approach. But, following the first Mid-Term Review, progress accelerated rapidly under
changed management. The project introduced a significant change in the government's
approach to communities in the area. The Ministry of Agriculture was able to support the
implementation of activities outside its sectoral capacity. The fact that the Minister of
Agriculture was also Deputy Prime Minister and party General Secretary assisted
coordination. The project was provided by government with a core of very capable and
committed staff in a center not widely favored for residence, many of whom are still in place.


                                        21                                  Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

EGYPT MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT


Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)

                             Appraisal      Actual or            Actual as percent of
                             Estimate       current estimate     Appraisal estimate
Total project costs          29.53          33.06                112
Credit amount                22.00          21-90                99




Project Dates

                              Original               Actual
Initiating memorandum         0211991                0211991
Board Approval                0511993                0511993
Effectiveness                 0211994                0211994
Closing date                  1212001                1212002


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)

                         Actual Weeks              Actual US$OOO
Preappraisal             34                        115.3
AppraisalINegotiations   62.1                      230.6
Supervision*             147.4                     534.5
Completion**             9                         19.4
Total                    252.5                     899.8

                                               22                                                 Annex A


Mission Data
                              Date     No- of       Specialization               Performance rating
                          (month/year) Persons      representedl           Implementation Development
                                                                               Statos       objectives
IdentificationIPreparation 02/05/1991
Identification/PreDaration 05/12/1992
AppraisalINegotiation      11/06/1992
AppraisaVNegotiation       0411911993
Supervision 1              06/09/1993     1    Sr. Nat. Resource Spec            1               1

Supervision 2              1211011993     5    Sr. Nat. Resource Spec
                                                            (11                  1               1
                                              (1); Sr. Agriculturalist (1);
                                                Sr. Irrigation Engr* (1);
                                                  Social Scientist (1)
Supervision 3              07/04/1994     5       Sr. Nat. Resources            HS              HS
                                                     Spec. (1); Sr.
                                               Agriculturalist (1); Credit
                                                   specialist (1); Sr.
                                                Irrigation Engineer (1);
                                                  Social Scientist (1)
Supervision 4              11/04/1994     1   Sr. Nat. Resources Spec            S               S
                                                            (1)
Supervision 5              0411511995     5    WID Specialist (1); Nat.          S               S
                                              Resource Mgt. Spec. (1);
                                              Agriculturalist (1); Social
                                                   Scientist (1); Civil
                                                     Engineer (1)
Supervision 6              01/26/1996     6      Nat. Resource Mgt.                              S
                                               Spec. (I): Agriculturalist        S
                                                    (1); Agricultural
                                                Economist (1); Social
                                                   Scientist (1); Civil
                                                     Engineer (1);
                                              Environmental Spec. (1)
Supervision 7              07/25/1996    4    Agric. Econ. (Cons.) (1);          S               S
                                                Sr. Irrig. Engineer (1);
                                              Environmental Spec. (1);
                                                    Agriculturalist/
                                                       Range (1)
Supervision 8              10/24/1997    3     Sr. Irrigation. Engineer
                                               (I), Social Scientist (I),
                                                Agriculturalist (I), Ag.
                                                    Economist (1)
Supervision 9              0511311998    4         Team LeaderISr.
                                              Agricult. (1); Pr. Irrigation
                                                   Engineer (1); Sr.
                                                Agriculturalist (1); Sr.
                                                   SOC.Scientist (1)
Supervision 10             11/23/1998    5     Pr. Irrigation Engineer
                                              (1); Sr. Agriculturalist (1);
                                              Sr. SOC.Scientist (1); Sr.
                                               Natural Res. Spec. (1)
Supervision 11             06/07/1999    5     Prin. Irrig. Engineer (!);
                                              Senior Agriculturalist (1);
                                               Natural Resource Sec.
                                               (1); Sr. Social Scientist
                                               (1); Social Scientist (1)
Supervision 12             11/07/1999    3    Principal Irrig. Engineer         S                S
                                                  (1); Senior Social
                                                Scientist (1); Senior
                                              Agriculturalist (1); Social
                                              Scientist (1); Sr. Natural
                                                    Resources (1)
Supervision 13             05/31/2000    5     Irrigation Engineer (1);         S               S
                                                Social Scientist (1);
                                                   Agriculturist (1)

                                      23                                               Annex A


                     Date      No. of     Specialization              Performance rating
                  (month/year) Persons     represented'         Implementation Development
                                                                    Status       objectives
Supervision 14     11/15/2000     5    Sr. Irrigation Engineer        S               S
                                       (I), Agriculturalist (1);
                                      Agr. Economist (I), Snr.
                                        Social Scientist (!),
                                           Financial Mgmt
                                            Specialist (1)
Supervision 15     06/15/2001     '2  Agr. Services Spec. (1);        S               S
                                      Natural Resource Spec.
                                       (1); Farmer Org. Spec.
                                        (1); Water/Soil Res.
                                         Mngmt. (1); Social

Completion         02/07/2003           Agr.Scientist (1)
                                              Economist (1);          S               S
                                      Natural Resource Spec.


                                          25                                        Annex B


Annex B. Comments from the Government



                          c>+           J J I W i i J / d p d
                    Matrouh Resource Management Project



      February 8"', 2004
     TO:   MI..  Alain Barbu
           Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
           Operations Evaluation Department
           The World Bank
           Washington D.C.

                                           FAX: (202)522-3123
     FM: Prof. Dr. Ismaii Abdel Galil Hussein
           President of Desert Research Center and
           National Coordinator of Matrouh Resource Management Project
     FAX: (046) 493-1082
     FAX:(02)635-7858
     Dear Mr. Bai-bu,

        I highly appreciated the efforts made by your department behalf the Project
     Performance Assessment (PPAR). The report has been reviewed by the project staff who
     were actively involved in the first phase. Here are the remarks and comments made by
     them:
        1.     It was mentioned in the documents that the project would
               significantly increase the farm income of about GlOOO Bedouins (@
               8714 households). The average cost per household was estimated at
               US$ 3385.4.Therefore, the actual total project cost per household of
               US$ 3167 is not high because of the physical and socio-economic
               circumstances in the project area,

        2.     Because of delay in the preparation of the CAPS, action contracts
               were proposed by the 38 local communities (including the activities
               to be implemented and list of beneficiaries).The distribution ofsome
               activities such as water harvesting structures (because of its high
               demand) and horticulture support is not fully matching the
               distribution of households (small, medium and large farmers). Also,
              the distribution of benefits (water harvesting structures) is not
              determined only by economic conditions as it fluctuates over time in
              the region because of uncertainty of rainfall but also by technical
              issues. etc.

                                        26                                            Annex B




    3.        Beneficiaries in the project area transplanted 6.4 million fodder shrub
              seedlings; 2..49 million seedlings in large Cenccd areas with a total
              area of 6226 feddans; 3.6 million shrub seedlings in sinall non-
              fenced areas; and 0.31 million seedlings in barley fields     (82951
              fedclans).

    4.        In the second phase, representatives of the local communities will be
              in the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) as well as SRSC and
              the regional committees for enhancing local involvement. .

    5 .       Thc project has conducted two studies on the implementation of the
              Credit Component during the preparation of tlie second phase (by
              International and Local Consultants) The component will be
              iinplemented independently by a consulting firm,

    I hope that the MRMP- staff comments will meet your net:d to finalize tlie
    final report .Pleasedon't hesitate to contact me for any other inquiries.

    Best R gnt*tls.
             fi

Prcsitlcrit of

