                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26023

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-25040)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.9 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT

                                                   FOR

                          MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                               June 3, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective on June 2, 2003 (Floating Exchange Rate))

                           Currency Unit = Egyptian Pound (LE) and US$
                                  LE 1.00 = US$ 167
                                US$ 1.00 = LE 5.96

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1   June 30

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWPB         Annual Work Program and Budget
BCM          Beneficiary Contract Monitoring
CAP          Community Action Plan
CDD          Community Driven Development
EEAA         Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FU           Feed Unit
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GIS          Geographic Information System
GOE          Government of Egypt
GTZ          Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Agency for
             Technical Cooperation)
IAP          International Advisory Panel
ICARDA       International Center for Agricultural Research in Dryland Areas
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
ITA          ICADRA Technical Assistance
IWD          Integrated Watershed Management
LC           Local Community
MALR         Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MARC         Matruh Adaptive Research Center
METAP        Mediterranean Technical Assistance Program
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MRMP         Matruh Resource Management Project
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NBE          National Bank of Egypt
NCC          National Coordination Committee
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PBDAC        Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
PCC          Project Coordination Committee
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
QAE          Quality at Entry
QSA          Quality of Supervision Assessment
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SRMA         Selected Range Management Area
SRSC         Sub-regional Support Center

UNDP         United Nations Development Program
WB           World Bank
WFP          World Food Programme
WID          Women in Development




                         Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
              Country Manager/Director:    Mahmood A. Ayub
               Sector Manager/Director:    Petros Aklilu/Letitia A. Obeng
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Marie-Helene Collion

                               EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC OF
                         MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Summary of GOE Completion Report                                        36

Project ID: P005153                                                      Project Name: MATRUH RESOURCE
                                                                         MANAGEMENT
Team Leader: Ayat Soliman                                                TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 3, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-25040
   Country/Department: ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                             Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (33%); Agricultural extension and research (33%);
                            Micro- and SME finance (16%); General public administration
                            sector (10%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (8%)
                  Theme: Other environment and natural resources management (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (P); Other rural development (P);
                            Gender (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    02/05/1991                                        Effective: 02/02/1994              02/02/1994
   Appraisal:    11/06/1992                                            MTR: 10/01/1997                10/01/1997; 11/01/2000
    Approval:    05/27/1993                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT/MIN. OF AG. & LAND RECLAMATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jean-Louis Sarbib                                   Caio K. Koch-Weser
Country Director:          Mahmood A. Ayub                                     Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:            Petros Aklilu                                       Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Team Leader at ICR:        Marie-Helene Collion                                Bachir Souhlal
ICR Primary Author(s): Joseph G. Nagy (FAO/CP); Ayat
                           Soliman


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project aims at implementing the Government's strategy for natural resource management in dryland
areas. The main objectives of the project are: (i) to conserve the water, land and vegetation resources in the
project area; and (ii) to alleviate poverty and improve the quality of life of the local Bedouin population by
providing support for improved natural resource management practices, coupled with agricultural and
non-agricultural development. This would be accomplished by utilizing the existing tribal structure and
encouraging maximum participation of the local population.

The project objectives were clear and highly relevant to the country's development objectives in semi-arid
regions of the country. The project was a pioneering effort for the Government of Egypt, being the first
integrated natural resource management project involving local tribal populations in rain-fed areas.
Similarly, it was one of the first efforts for the World Bank in the region focusing on key environmental and
sustainability issues with strong community participation. The project is also consistent with the current
country assistance strategy and overall lending objectives regarding poverty reduction, rural development,
agricultural export promotion and addressing issues of water scarcity and management. The project had a
considerable degree of complexity as a result of: (i) implementing five separate components that required an
interaction in a large project area consisting of three different agro-ecological zones with strong community
participation; and (ii) institutional and implementation arrangements being designed such that most of the
activities to be implemented through the different technical departments and local authorities in the
Governorate of Matruh, with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) providing overall guidance and technical
support, which required a high degree of inter-sectoral coordination. These factors were reflected in the
identified risks to project implementation, namely on poor uptake of the participatory approach and limited
institutional coordination.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives remained the same throughout the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The following project components were designed to achieve the desired project objectives:

(i) Water harvesting and watershed management, which would introduce several environmentally-sound
water harvesting interventions (cisterns, reservoirs and small earth, stone and cemented dikes) and establish
a Soil and Water Management Unit as part of the Matruh Resource Management Center, later renamed
Matruh Adaptive Research Center (MARC).

(ii) Rangeland and grazing management, which would focus on the improvement and effective utilization
of rangeland and vegetative cover. This         includes supporting the planting of trees and shrubs on 12,000
feddans of communal lands as well as over-seeding some 2,000 feddans of deteriorated pasture lands.

(iii) Adaptive research, which would establish the MARC and test and disseminate relevant best-practice
technologies designed to conserve the area's fragile natural resources and improve and sustain rural
productivity. This demand-driven adaptive research would deal with range management and improvement,
fodder plant establishment, animal husbandry, cereal (barley), fruit trees (figs, olives, and other promising
species) and vegetable production.

(iv) Extension and training, which would provide funding for establishing an effective agricultural



                                                       - 2 -

extension service, including a small multimedia unit, responsible for disseminating improved techniques,
general extension messages and marketing information to farmers and herders. In addition, four
Subregional Support Centers (SRSCs) would be established within the project area and staffed by relevant
subject-matter specialists.

(v) Rural finance, which would give special attention to promoting on-farm income-generating activities
targeted to small farmers, the landless, and rural women. The proposed pilot credit program would operate
as a special loan fund administered on behalf of the Government by participating banks. The total number
of estimated beneficiaries is to be 3,865 rural households and enterprises.

(vi) Project coordination unit (PCU), which would operate through existing governmental organizations
in the Matruh Governorate, would assist with project planning, coordination, monitoring and financial
control. The unit would include an M&E component to oversee the impact on local communities and
agro-ecosystems.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the 1997 Mid-Term Review (MTR), the rural finance component was cancelled from the project.
No agreement could be reached with the participating banks to manage the line of credit. Among the
reasons cited by the various financial institutions are the existence or emergence of alternative sources of
micro-credit at more favorable terms in the area as well as problems of collateral among the target group.
The funding allocated for the rural finance component was reallocated to other activities in need of
financing, mainly the water harvesting and watershed management component. In addition, a small
revolving fund was established as part of the women-in-development (WID) activities under the extension
component (see Section 4.2 for details on WID activities under the project). The PCU became a fully
autonomous implementing agency replacing the implementation through respective technical departments,
as a means to address the problems experienced with coordination in the first years of the project resulting
in slow initial implementation. As a result of the experience gained up to the MTR, several performance
indicators were adjusted.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was prepared prior to the Bank's formal performance rating for Quality at Entry (QAE).
However, the project's peer reviewers and Bank's management endorsed the project design and considered
the quality at entry to be satisfactory. The ICR maintains this overall satisfactory rating, based on the
following main points:

(i)  The project's objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy of reform in the agricultural
sector in the late 1980's and findings of the World Bank's Agricultural Sector Study of Egypt for the
1990's. The most relevant findings emphasized environmental sustainability and poverty alleviation. The
project also responded to the priority investment areas included in the Environmental Action Plan prepared
by the GOE in 1992. The project design built on activities and lessons learned of a number of other donor
projects in the region that had been on-going at the time of appraisal, notably through WFP, GTZ and
FAO/UNDP.

(ii) The project design was consistent with the stated development objectives. The design was innovative in
many aspects, given its strong emphasis on local participation and community ownership in resource
management. It was one of the first, Bank-wide, to implement such a community based participatory
development approach and reflected many of the lessons learned in previous Bank-assisted projects
regarding the need for greater beneficiary participation and support for decentralization of services.




                                                     - 3 -

(iii) The project is also a pioneering effort in addressing natural resource management in rainfed areas with
high incidence of poverty in a country context where irrigated agriculture has historically dominated
applied research and development programs in the sector. The project has embarked on introducing
multi-sectoral approaches to resource planning and management, and engaged the Ministry of Agriculture
and Land Reclamation (MALR) to build capacity and knowledge beyond traditional agricultural
development into integrated land use management, mobilization of social capital and inter-sectoral
coordination.

(iv) Although the Bank's safeguards policies were not in effect at the time of project appraisal, the project
has elements in its design to support environmental and social sustainability. An environmental assessment
was conducted and environmental benefits were found to be positive. Key performance indicators were
designed to monitor the improvements in the natural resource base (water conservation, soil erosion).
Measures to address conservation and monitoring of biodiversity in the project area were not included,
however, as it was assumed that planned interventions under the Mediterranean Environmental Technical
Assistance Program (METAP) would cover these aspects. This did not materialize during the course of
implementation.

The ICR also identifies two weaknesses that should be taken into consideration for future projects of the
same complex and multi-sectoral nature:

(i) The first relates to the readiness for implementation of the proposed participatory approach. Given that
this was the first such effort in the area, the implementation timeframe should have reflected the need for an
initial build-up and preparatory period. This would be needed for staff skills, community organization,
sensitization and trust relationship to be created, especially in view of the fact that implementation relied on
civil servants with limited experience in the area or proposed approach. The poor uptake of the
participatory planning process had been identified as a risk at appraisal, but the mitigation measures should
have been further elaborated and reflected in the implementation plan for the different components.

(ii) Secondly, the challenges which were explored at length when designing the rural finance component
were not translated into modalities for implementation that take into account the specificity the area and the
community regarding credit. The agreement on details of credit delivery mechanisms were left to be
finalized with the financing institutions during implementation. While the appraisal team proposed a modest
credit line with subsidized interest rates, a more traditional credit component using commercial bank was
favored by the Government and used in the final design. This proved very difficult to implement and led to
cancellation of the component.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The two main project development objectives are sustainable natural resource management and poverty
alleviation, using the existing tribal structure and local participation. The ICR rates the achievements of the
development objectives and the project outputs as satisfactory. Although in some cases, it may be too early
to assess, most project achievements are likely to be sustained, and the net present value of economic flows
are positive.

Concerning the first objective of conserving the natural resource base (water, land and vegetation), this has
been achieved as follows: (i) construction of 1.2 million m3 of water storage facilities exceeding the



                                                       - 4 -

appraisal target of 250,000 m3 by about five times. The Adoption and Impact Study (2001) indicated that
58% of total households surveyed in the project area benefited from project-supported water harvesting
activities; 42% of which were from the poorest households with a per capita annual income of less than
US$250; (ii) construction of earth, stone and cemented dikes that support irrigation and erosion control on
4,236 fd, contributing to higher crop and rangeland yields; (iii) the development of an integrated watershed
development planning system that has significantly decreased water erosion and increased crop and
rangeland productivity and has provided a valuable knowledge base for the country and the region; (iv) the
planting of shrubs on 18,224 fd and the over seeding of 4,710 fd of rangeland for grazing and for erosion
control; and (v) education and awareness training of beneficiaries on sustainable resource management
issues. Annex 1 presents key outcome and output performance indicators as compared to initial targets.

 In terms of poverty alleviation and improving the livelihoods of the local Bedouin population, project
 outputs contributed to the achievement of this objective as follows: (i) construction of safe drinking water
 storage facilities resulted in agricultural and health benefits, and had an impact on decreasing women's
 water carrying time and increased livestock productivity. The Adoption and Impact Study indicated that
 56% of the sample reported an increase in income due to water harvesting activities; (ii) increased income
 from livestock through increased fodder availability and genetic improvement. M&E surveys show that of
 the total rangeland holders who benefited, 67% reported a reduction in their feed concentrate purchase by
 up to 25%, with beneficiaries equally distributed among small, medium and large farmers; (iii) increased
 income from adopting higher yielding barley varieties (see Table 1 below) and higher crop and
 horticultural yields from adopting recommended adaptive research/extension management practices; and
 (iv) increased incomes from on- and off-farm income generating activities, especially for women.
 Appraisal targets for farm income increases per household were estimated at 108% for small farms, 77%
 for medium farms and 67% for large farms. The results of the Adoption and Impact Study, while not
 directly comparable to appraisal figures, show that 58% of the total sample surveyed said that their income
 increased due to project interventions, of which half estimated an increase of about 25%. In terms of
 distribution by economic group, 46% of the respondents were small farmers, 69 % were medium farmers,
 and 77% were large farmers.

Table 1. Yield Projections at Appraisal and Actual Yields at ICR (kg/feddan)
                                               At Appraisal  a         End of project
                                        W/out project     W/ project       Actual b


Barley                                        265            320             310
Olives (improving existing                    865           1,200           1,286
orchards)
Figs (improving existing orchards)           1,200          2,700           1,823
a
 Memorandum of the President (MOP) (p. 27, Table 6.1)
bAs used in ICR ERR calculation, based on PCU/MARC monitoring data, Annex 3.

Despite the challenges in terms of the project complexity, geographic dispersion and specific social
conditions, a further key outcome of the project was its ability to build a good foundation for local capacity
in resource management through technical assistance, training and support for social organization, both for
project and Government staff as well as community representatives and farmers at large. These impact
extend beyond the quantifiable outputs, and ensure the sustainability of the infrastructure and services
beyond the project life.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Underlying the outputs of each of the components was the participatory approach, which was used in


                                                      - 5 -

project planning and implementation. Although, for various reasons, the participatory approach as
envisaged at appraisal was only partially implemented, there were some significant outcomes from
pioneering the process. It has been shown that this approach can and has gained the trust and confidence of
the Bedouin people. This has translated into a positive response to the adoption of MRMP project
interventions that can be built on for future projects. The area was divided into 38 Local Communities (LC)
based on geographic and social profiles. Each LC selected a number of representatives, or mandoubeen,
and 38 Community Action Plans (CAPs) were prepared and implemented. The pressure to disburse funds
following the initial delays caused the PCU to undertake activities planning and implementation using
action contracts until CAPs were formulated, with predefined appraisal targets as guidance for expected
outputs under each sub-component. While the development of the CAPs was largely a learning exercise,
and has only been the basis for community-level activities in the last two years of the project, it has better
defined the process for other development initiatives to follow.

Outputs by component were as follows:

(1) Water Harvesting and Watershed Management (Satisfactory)

Under the water harvesting sub-component, water storage structures were constructed to harvest rain water
for household use, animal watering and limited supplemental irrigation. In response to high beneficiary
demand, the project constructed 6,954 cisterns relative to the 800 envisaged at appraisal. The project also
constructed 243 concrete reservoirs and in addition, 231 ancient Roman cisterns were rehabilitated. In total,
the project constructed about 1.2 million m3 of water storage capacity that benefited about 6,000
households. The M&E survey indicated that the number of small farmers benefiting from project supported
water harvesting activities was the highest (42%), however medium and large farmers also benefited and
indicated a proportionately higher increase in income as a result of these interventions. If water harvesting
by itself was a component, it would have been rated highly satisfactory.

Earth, stone and dyke structures were constructed for water harvesting and soil erosion prevention. Earth
dykes supported 509 fd, stone dikes supported 2,707 fd and concrete dikes supported 167 fd for a total of
3,383 fd, somewhat less than was anticipated at appraisal. Concrete dikes proved to be too costly, difficult
to construct and caused water distribution problems with neighbors, unless properly designed, while earth
dikes were difficult to construct in areas with shallow soil profiles. Watershed management constructed
earth dikes to support an area of 190 fd and stone dykes to support an area of 670 fd. The project reseeded
2,260 fd and planted 65 km of trees as windbreaks. Earth dikes proved not to be the best structures to build
for the purpose and there were implementation delays. The introduction of integrated watershed
development (IWD) planning for sustainable resource development within a watershed was a further
achievement. Sixty-four watersheds were assessed and developed.

(2) Rangelands and Grazing Management (Satisfactory)

Rangeland improvements under the project consisted of planting fodder shrubs (mainly Acacia and Atriplex
species) on private and communal lands and overseeding of rangeland. Actual improvements consisted of
planting 9,047 fd of fodder shrubs on small areas, planting 6,226 fd of fodder shrubs on Selected Range
Management Areas (SRMAs) and interplanting 2,951 fd of fodder shrubs with barley for a total of 18,224
fd (152% of MTR target). In addition, 2,450 feddan were overseeded with pallatable species. The
incremental yield from improved rangeland is about 400 Feed Unit (FU)/fd, which increased fodder
production by close to 9 million FUs, thereby reducing the feed gap by close to 20%. The M&E surveys
indicate that 67% of beneficiaries surveyed have reported a reduction in their concentrate purchase by up to
25%. The project also collected and reproduced indigenous range species, conducted studies to improve


                                                      - 6 -

germination and established a botanical garden. The establishment of SRMAs has been supported under
parallel financing from the World Food Program (WFP) and has been flagged during the World Bank's
supervision as a controversial approach to rangeland management. While SRMAs have been effective in
increasing feed resources, they are costly, deal with individual farmers, and require a large land area, which
only affluent farmers can supply. Replicability of such packages beyond the limited initial scale is thereby
highly unlikely.

(3) Adaptive Research (Satisfactory)

The Matruh Adaptive Research Center MARC has been established and worked closely with extension for
testing and dissemination. MARC consists of six research subunits, including a soil and water management
unit, as well as a training center for project staff and beneficiaries. Constraints and best practices were
identified partially through the participatory approach and also through the experience of the researchers
and extension specialists. On-farm adaptive research was carried out on about 350 fd in farmer's fields
across three agro-ecological zones. The International Advisory Panel (IAP), consisting of four experts in
soils and water, rangeland management, animal husbandry, and farming systems, were invaluable to the
MARC, especially in the early stages.

A notable achievement was the selection of the improved barley variety Giza-126. The new variety coupled
with improved cultural practices of two cross-cultivations and proper seed rate for barley has increased
yields on demonstration fields by at least 15%. Surveys indicated that beneficiaries have adopted the
technology on about 60% of the 94,800 fd annually sown to barley. Other farming system technologies
such as crop rotation, crop mixtures, and fodder shrub interplanting attained a lower adoption rates.
Adaptive research on olives and figs included improved pruning, manure application, biological pest
control, better harvesting techniques and supplementary irrigation. Adaptive research was also carried out
on virus tolerant fig and fig varieties suitable for drying. Through adaptive research and extension efforts
olive yields have been improved by 153% and fig yields by 148% on demonstration plots. Adaptive
research has also been conducted on improving melon, tomato, and mint production and the introduction of
dates and new fruit crops such as jojoba. Livestock adaptive research focused on the low productivity of
local breeds, improper feeding and fattening regimes, decreasing the use of purchased concentrates, and
veterinary and health problems. A genetic improvement program was introduced. Recommendations were
made on early weaning of lambs and the use of urea treated straw, olive pulp and barley-vetch mix to
replace purchased concentrates decreasing feed costs. A mobile veterinary unit was instituted.

(4) Extension, Training and WID Program (Satisfactory)

Extension worked closely with MARC relying on similar research and demonstration sites and the
interaction with farmers, building a good rapport and trust relationship. Successful adaptive research
results were translated into practical applications and recommendations for farmer's use. The extension
component also trained farmers and held field days and demonstrations. A multi-media unit was established
to support the dissemination of extension and general awareness messages. Extension shares the credit with
adaptive research for the success of the adoption of project interventions.

The Women in Development (WID) programme was not initially envisaged at appraisal and was introduced
in 1996 to respond more systematically to the felt and expressed needs of the communities. The project
responsiveness and measured impact in this regard is highly commendable and the sub-component outputs
are rated highly satisfactory. Given that the component was introduced at a later stage and with limited
funding, staff in the WID unit had to compete hard to obtain resources and office support. The major
achievements of the programme have been in the areas of literacy education, establishment of small


                                                     - 7 -

income-generating projects, home gardens, provision of hand pumps and gas stoves and training on
handicrafts, improved nutrition, health and sanitation and environmental awareness. For example, 5,609
girls were given literacy education, 352 trained in carpet weaving, 1,478 home gardens established, about
1,500 women trained in the preparation of jam and preserving olives, and 584 trained in raising poultry.
Social centers were constructed in 15 LCs and used primarily for literacy and girls' education classes.

(5) Rural Finance (Unsatifactory).

The rural finance pilot program was cancelled at the MTR. Prolonged negotiations between the project and
the locally-established banks, namely, Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
and National Bank of Egypt (NBE), did not lend to any agreement on terms and conditions for loans, nor
on mechanisms for credit delivery. In addition, issues of accessibility in remote areas, lack of appropriate
collateral in many cases, risks related to natural conditions of drought, existence of cheap, albeit limited,
alternative funding mechanisms and the resistance of the population to the concept of interest due to
religious convictions provided further difficulties for implementation of this component as envisaged.
However, a small revolving fund was established for the WID programme and administered by the project.
In total LE 260,000 were disbursed, and the recovery rate for this credit without interest was 98%.

(6) Project Management (Satisfactory)

With the change in management and the additional implementation autonomy granted to the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) structure at the time of the first MTR (1997), effective project implemention
resumed. To ensure further decentralization and proximity to the beneficiaries, five sub-regional support
centers (SRSCs) were also established. About 17,000 person days (p/d) of local training and over 1,500
p/d of overseas training were provided to project staff and beneficiaries. In terms of technical assistance,
more than 4,500 p/d of international (mainly through ICARDA and the International Advisory Panel) and
local TA consultancies were provided. The National Coordination Committee (NCC) and Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) structures were meant to ensure full coordination with relevant GOE
agencies and link the project more closely to other authorities in the area; however their role and
effectiveness could have been enhanced.

(7) Monitoring and Evaluation (Unsatisfactory)

The M&E component established 37 databases for systematic monitoring of project activities in the local
communities. It also utilized Geographic Information System (GIS) technology and satellite imaging
following GTZ El Qasr project support to monitor changes in the project area. The project started focusing
on monitoring and evaluation of impacts and resulting changes in socio-economic conditions only in the last
three years. The adoption and impact of project interventions were evaluated using Beneficiary Contact
Monitoring (BCM) studies involving Rapid Rural Appraisal, sample farm surveys, and case studies that
were conducted between 1999 and 2001, as documented in the Adoption and Impact Study report (2001). It
should be noted that impacts on women, particularly those not directly involved in project activities, were
not fully measured, in view of the restrictions on mobility and outside interaction for female members of the
household. This should have been addressed from the onset in the design and implementation of the field
surveys. Also, environmental impacts including changes in range quality and improvements in species
occurrence and diversity were not fully monitored.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 13.0% compared to 12.1% estimated at appraisal. This
confirms the satisfactory economic performance of the project. Detailed information on the analysis and



                                                    - 8 -

assumptions is given in Annex 3. The ERR is believed to be underestimated, since the non-quantifiable
factors such as a positive environmental and beneficiary health impacts are not reflected in the ERR
estimation. The ERR is not overly sensitive to changes in the benefit stream. When benefits are reduced by
10% and 20%, the ERR falls to 11.7% and 10.3%, respectively.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact in the context of this project can be divided into improvements in the
ability of: (i) relevant Government institutions; and (ii) beneficiary communities in the target area, to make
more efficient use of the available human, financial and natural resources. In terms of Government
institutions, the project has improved the capacity of a cadre of staff capable of addressing natural resource
management issues in an integrated fashion in dryland areas, the first for the country. Most of the project
staff were seconded from the Ministry of Agriculture and affiliated research institutions, and hence this
capacity will be retained and utilized within the institutional structure. Also, the project provided an
adaptive research structure which will serve in the long term in the expanded areas of watershed
management and dryland farming.

In terms of the improvements on the part of beneficiary abilities, the project has strengthened the capacity
of communities to manage their own development, prioritize their development needs, and establish formal
links with outside and government agencies. While the present impact may be modest, given that the
process has only been functioning fully in the last three years of the project, real concrete steps have been
taken in community capacity building that were adopted and built-on by the follow-on project. This
includes training of community members in maintenance of water harvesting structures, agricultural
extension and involvement of community members in literacy classes both as recipients but also as tutors.
The process of communities organizing themselves and selecting community representatives is an important
step in terms of self-organization towards possibly becoming legally recognized entities that can be
responsible for implementing development plans at their levels. Institutional development impact is
therefore viewed as substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of the government and implementing agency is the harsh weather
conditions and drought. Although this fact was known at the outset, the weather during the eight years of
the project was particularly harsh ­ 4 of the 8 years were characterized as having below average rainfall.
The years 1999 to 2002 were all characterized as poor agricultural years yet there was a significant
increase in agricultural productivity and adoption of project interventions. There may have been better
project outcomes and resulting ERR had the weather patterns been more within the average or positive
range for the area.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Only 19% of project funds were disbursed by the fourth year. At the start of the project, the major
responsibility with implementation of technical activities was with the respective technical departments of
the Governorate of Matruh and other national authorities. Although the PCU provided overall guidance, the
PCU could not fully direct the management of the project because it had no authority over the implementing
agencies. Government intervention half way through the project helped to transform the PCU into an
autonomous implementing agency and speed up implementation.




                                                      - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Significant delays were experienced with the implementation of the participatory approach and the
preparations of the Community Action Plans (CAPs) because of lack of relevant staff skills. The project
document proposed that a pilot of two CAPs be undertaken first with international technical assistance to
enable the staff to be trained before the remaining CAPs were prepared. Due to pressures to disburse funds,
project management omitted the pilot phase and concentrated on the implementation of physical
interventions such as water harvesting without full participatory planning. The preparation of the CAPs
were thus delayed and only started in 1996. Implementation of the watershed management component was
delayed due to the delay in obtaining technical assistance which was subsequently resolved by engaging
ICARDA.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was appraised in November 1992 and became effective on February 2, 1994. A seven-year
implementation period was envisaged with a closing date of December 31, 2001. The total estimated
project cost including physical and price contingencies was US$29.54 million. The financing plan indicated
that IDA would provide US$22.0 million (74.6%), the Government US$5.1 million (17.3%) and
beneficiaries US$2.4 million (8.1%). The project was given a one-year extension and closed on December
31, 2002. The final cost of the project is estimated at US$33 million. IDA provided US$21.9 million
(66.5%), the Government US$5.7 million (17.3%) and beneficiaries US$5.3 million (16.3%). Beneficiaries
contributed 2.2 times more than the appraisal cost estimates and this is due mainly to the actual
construction of 6,954 cisterns relative to the anticipated 800 cisterns at appraisal. An independent survey
of cistern construction costs for purposes of preparation of MRMP II indicated that market rates on
construction cost figure for cisterns were lower than the estimate used by the project. This may have
contributed to the increased demand on cisterns and the overall cost of the sub-component. It was proposed
to use a bidding process with local contractors in the first year of implementation of the Second Matruh
Resource Management Project (MRMP II) to ensure that a fair market price is used for possible
subsequent construction by beneficiaries.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR rating: Likely

The project benefits and initiatives are likely to be sustained. Overall, this assessment is based on the
following considerations:

l In view of      the remoteness, low population density and scale of interventions in the project area,
    beneficiary ownership and active participation becomes a more crucial factor in deciding long term
    sustainability. As a result of the project approach in terms of community participation and beneficiary
    contribution to the investment cost of various sub-projects, a strong sense of ownership has been
    developed by the beneficiaries. Increased agricultural productivity, incomes, food security and positive
    health impacts has provided added incentive for them to maintain the constructed infrastructure. This is
    manifested in continued coverage of operation and maintenance cost of water harvesting structures and
    on-farm interventions by individual farmers, as well as continued support for community-level
    initiatives and social services from their own resources. One such example is the continuation of
    community school initiatives, whereby communities have, after the project support ended, established a
    system of collecting monthly teacher's remuneration and contacting the local official school system to
    regularly obtain textbooks and basic educational material.

l In ensuring long-term sustainability of the achieved development efforts in the area, and realizing that



                                                     - 10 -

    longer timeframes are required to achieve the full extent of implementation of participatory and
    integrated resource management approaches, the Government has decided to embark on a second phase
    of the project. MRMP II has been approved by the Bank Board in March 2003 and will further
    contribute to increased sustainability through its emphasis on capacity building of beneficiaries and
    administrative, scientific and support staff. The Government has shown its commitment by providing
    funding to the PCU, MARC and other MRMP I project components to bridge the funding gap between
    MRMP I and the start-up of MRMP II and has also committed counterpart funding for the
    implementation of MRMP II.

l MRMP II has incorporated features that ensure sustainability of the various technical components and
    initiated activities. Emphasis will be placed on better linkages with relevant departments and agencies
    at the Governorate level in the interest of post-project sustainability. In particular, the sustainability of
    MARC as a full research structure has been discussed in detail with the Government. The Government
    has expressed its support for continuing the funding of the center and linking it to a local or regional
    research institution. In addition, MRMP II has opted for providing research sub-project based funding,
    instead of bulk funding of the center cost, as a step for MARC to enhance its self-financing
    capabilities.

l The overall policy framework of the Government in this sector provides the necessary enabling
    environment for initiated activities to be sustained. The Government has an overall commitment to
    ensuring sustainable economic development, natural resource management, and poverty alleviation in
    the region as expressed in their "Vision 2017" document. In addition, the Government is providing
    incentive frameworks that promote private sector investments, including for niche markets and
    agricultural export promotion. This will facilitate addressing the existing issues of marketing and
    competitiveness under MRMP II to ensure that the attained benefits from natural resource conservation
    are maintained and maximized.

l No major risks to sustainability are evident, but political will and commitment to continuing the
    implementation of the selected approach is imperative. Emphasis should be placed by MALR on
    ensuring that relevant key decision makers in other agencies are educated on the benefits of the
    participatory approach and that lessons learned are systematically integrated into development plans
    for the area and other similar regions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has initiated the second phase of the project (MRMP II) as a transitional phase that will
move the project further to integration within existing structures. The PCU staff, many of whom are
seconded, will likely be absorbed into existing ministries or other institutions in the area over the long term.
It is unlikely the government will increase its presence in the project area beyond what exists given its
remoteness and sparse population. Emphasis should and will be placed on creating effective interfaces
between the local communities and existing Government agencies, as well as building the needed capacities
on both sides to ensure that technical support is maintained and communities are gradually fully
empowered to assume greater responsibility for planning and implementation of development efforts.
MRMP II has taken steps to streamline adaptive research and extension efforts so that they match what
can be more readily absorbed by the government.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project identification is judged as highly satisfactory. The project concept was


                                                    - 11 -

commended for its innovative design, and it was considered the first such type for the country and the
region to focus on key environmental and sustainability issues while attempting to fully involve the local
tribal population. It was consistent with the CAS objectives of sustainable resource management,
promotion of rural employment, poverty alleviation and food security. The multi-disciplinary nature of the
project made it more challenging. Higher complexity and associated risks were flagged from the early
identification stages, and adequate Bank resources were mobilized to address the inter-linkages with several
subsectors. The project built on the lessons learned from previous pilot activities financed through bilateral/
multilateral sources (mainly GTZ) and some technological packages that have already been developed in
the area.

Project preparation and appraisal is, on balance, rated satisfactory. Through its involvement, the Bank was
able to assist the GOE in securing Japanese grant funding for the preparatory phase, in addition to
providing the needed technical support to the Government national task force in the form of regular
follow-up missions. The Bank preparation team encouraged the use of participatory appraisal techniques to
ensure the involvement of local communities throughout the process. The issue of credit consumed a
disproportionately large portion of the internal reviews and discussions but, unfortunately, the ultimate
design of this particular component proved to be difficult to implement. This was perhaps also at the
expense of other components and aspects of design which could have used more in-depth preparation to
ensure readiness for implementation. In particular, the participatory process and associated risks did not
benefit from sufficient measures to address the lack in capacity and needed timeframe to build the trust
relationship between the implementing agency and the Beduin communities. Also, the proposed institutional
set-up was not fully assessed in terms of implementation capacity of the different local authorities through
which the PCU was proposed to function.

7.2 Supervision:
The overall Bank performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA) conducted in 1997 had rated some of the supervision aspects as marginal, including
focus on development impact, actions taken and follow up and relations with donors and other stakeholders
during supervision. The Bank teams addressed these flagged issues in the context of subsequent
supervisions, which were carried out in a timely manner and included in-depth assessment and clear
follow-up actions that were raised adequately with Bank management and client counterpart. In addition,
two detailed MTRs were conducted in 1997 and 2000, addressing at each stage key problems hindering
implementation and suggesting changes to the design in a flexible manner to accommodate local conditions
and community needs. There was a high degree of continuity in the team supervising the project during its
long implementation period, as well as regular involvement of the country office. Supervision of fiduciary
aspects of the project and realism of project performance ratings were rated satisfactory by the QSA and
continued to be adequate throughout. Given that this was one of the first projects Bank-wide to tackle
multi-disciplinary and participatory approaches, and the fact that limited tools were available to support
those aspects within the institution, the Bank teams are commended for guiding the project towards its final
achievements.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance from HJP International Limited from the
UK under a Japanese grant fund. A national task force was established to coordinate preparation efforts,
and included three groups of expertise, the first on water and soil conservation, the second on



                                                    - 12 -

agriculture/livestock development and production and the third on institutional and socio-economic aspects
(including credit, marketing, organization and management). The preparation phase is commended for the
utilization of participatory rapid rural appraisal techniques to secure the involvement of future project
beneficiaries from the early stages of project design. Government performance during preparation is rated
satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
There was a high degree of Government commitment to the project and it ensured that there was adequate
financial and human resources to achieve program goals. The Government is commended for initiating
what in many ways was a first pilot in participatory natural resource management in Egypt. The ability of
the Ministry of Agriculture to support the implementation of the diverse project activities, many of which
are outside the realm of its sectoral capacities is a demonstration model for integrated development. High
level support was ensured by the role of the National Project Coordinator who was responsible for policy
level coordination, as well as the establishment of the International Advisory Panel which provided valuable
guidance on technical issues. Regular follow-up was also provided from the former Ministry of Planning
and International Cooperation (currently Ministry of State for Foreign Affairs) to address implementation
delays and ensure early preparation initiation of MRMP II so as to minimize the gap in implementation.
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the performance of the PCU as an implementing agency is rated satisfactory. During the initial
four years of the project, the implementation of all five major project components was very slow. There
was almost no implementation of the watershed management activities, the rural finance component and the
development of CAPs. Also little of the available technical assistance funding had been used. However,
following the first MTR, the pace of implementation has improved markedly. Although the legacy of the
initial years hurt overall project implementation, the implementing agency did a very good job of
successfully carrying out project activities and achieving the target outputs from the MTR to the end of the
project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Overall design and participatory approach

l Moving towards multi-sectoral/multi-disciplinary approach in natural resource management and
     poverty alleviation projects is more likely to lead to achievement of objectives than the single-sector
     projects of the past and should be capitalized on as a first step towards decentralization and local level
     institutional integration. To be effective, the project design should include adequate emphasis on
     multi-disciplinary teams, and on outreach and capacity building on integrated resource planning and
     management approaches. Implementation through single sectoral ministries is inherently more
     challenging, and more emphasis should be placed on designing effective institutional set-ups to address
     multiple sectors and their successful interaction.

l Participatory project implementation requires flexible budgeting that is not constrained by
     predetermined outputs, but relies on a truly demand-driven identification of activities, in order for the
     participatory planning and implementation approach to be fully responsive to beneficiary demands.
     This should also be coupled with a change in approach and mind-set to monitoring and evaluation,
     which traditionally measures achievements against preset targets to (i) be more flexible, defined with


                                                     - 13 -

    communities and regularly updated; and          (ii) include indicators that measure responsiveness to
    community needs and extent of involvement by beneficiaries.

l Adequate initial training and capacity building is a prerequisite to the start up of activities requiring
    beneficiary participation, particularly in cases where participatory methods are new to the
    implementing agency. In addition, given the time required for community-level discussion and
    negotiation to agree on beneficiary priorities, full-time dedicated and skilled staff should be assigned to
    interface with communities and support their process of organization.

l Rural credit programs, particularly in remote areas, require innovative mechanisms that adapt to
    constraints on the side of both the financial institutions and the beneficiaries and identify a process that
    will bring the two parties, overtime, to a situation of mutual trust. Moving to a full scale commercial
    approach is often times not feasible or premature when the required market conditions are not
    conducive. The failure to address problems of collateral, religious views to interest rate payment and
    need for credit delivery at lowest levels will likely lead to failure and eventual cancellation of the
    component as was the case in this project.

l Targeting the poorest segments of the society can be a challenging process where communities
    have strong traditional structures, and requires time, clear monitoring mechanisms and strong
    engagement with the tribal organization. It should be recognized that a certain amount of elite capture
    of benefits will be mostly unavoidable in the initial phases of implementation. Once a trust relationship
    has been successfully established, the communities' representatives should be the ones to define those
    most in need and agree on a criteria for distribution of project benefits based on income levels. The
    project should then monitor a posteriori whether or not they have been following the agreed upon
    principles for poverty targeting in their budget allocation.

Technical / Institutional

l Accurate unit cost estimation of infrastructure sub-projects is a vital prerequisite to implementation
    through beneficiaries to avert over or under-estimation of construction costs.

l Soil conservation through watershed management can affect downstream runoff and water harvesting
    capabilities. Thus, the planning and implementation of water harvesting and watershed management
    must be integrated so as to optimize the benefits from both interventions.

l Community rangeland management may be a more suitable approach than activities targeting
    individual farmers, particularly for communal range areas where degradation is more severe. It stands a
    higher chance of achieving long-term sustainability, through ownership. However, it does require more
    initial time to be invested in negotiation and conflict resolution.

l The PCU as an add-on and temporary structure for service provision should be critically evaluated
    compared to available alternatives when embarking on new development initiatives in a given area. In
    view of the remoteness and dispersion of target communities and the resulting high comparative cost
    for GOE to provide full scale services at the local level, this set up is more appropriate to provide the
    initial deployment of necessary expertise, coupled with gradual phase-out plans to ensure that existing
    Government services, NGOs, and beneficiaries ultimately take over.

Influence of lessons learned on design of MRMP II



                                                     - 14 -

MRMP II has reflected many of the lessons distilled from implementing the first phase to build on the
positive achievements and ensure sustainability of the outputs and outcomes. The key features which relate
to the lessons mentioned above are:

(a)      MRMP II continues the multi-sectoral approach to natural resources management initiated
under Phase I with an added emphasis on biodiversity conservation and integrated ecosystem management,
for which GEF grant resources were secured. The Ministry of Environment through the Egyptian
Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) and the Governorate of Matruh for local level planning became
new project partners, thereby providing additional opportunities for cross-sectoral integration.

(b)      MRMP II will also deepen the Community Driven Development (CDD) approach. To ensure
that the participatory approach is the foundation of all activities to be undertaken in a community,
communities cannot benefit from activities under the project unless they have developed their CAP and
Annual Work Program and Budget (AWPB). These become the main tool for planning and allocating
resources to household and community-level investments and no activities will be funded outside. The
project budget reflects the flexibility in planning based on identified community needs, and therefore does
not predefine set numbers for the outputs under each component. The communities would be responsible
for determining the criteria for defining poverty within their own environment in order to identify the
eligible households. A dedicated unit Community Development Unit (CDU) has been created with full time
staff concerned with planning of activities related to preparation and monitoring of CAPs and AWPBs, as
well as development of local community organizational capacity. A special sub-unit for gender activities
has been proposed, in addition to one woman facilitator at each SRSC level, to address more systematically
women's concerns. Finally, the selection of mandoubeen will be revalidated to ensure their accountability to
their constituency.

(c)      MRMP II takes a micro-finance approach to rural lending as a pilot operation. In the design of
the credit component, MRMP II project has proposed the mechanism of using local traders as
intermediaries, which will hopefully bridge the collateral problem and gap in trust.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Ministry of Agricultre and Land Reclamation (MALR): The project was designed to implement the
Government's strategy for natural resource management in the dry areas of the northwest coast of Egypt.
This has helped to establish a common understanding and harmony between the project and other
development agencies, and facilitated project implementation. The establishment of the project coordination
committee has maintained close coordination between the project and the concerned development
organizations operating at both national and project area levels and enabled the achievement of the project
success and minimized duplication of development activities.

The project design, based on "bottom up" planning, reflected the real needs of the local communities,
strengthened the self confidence of the beneficiaries and helped to build roots of trust between Government
agencies, the project, and the local communities. The project has achieved remarkable success in areas of
integrating different activities, providing new experience, building human resource capacity, training
farmers, and formulating new packages for implementation ensured sustainability in the future. Linking
adaptive research and extension to development ensured technology relevance to the development goals, and
increased application of small and low cost technology. The establishment of Matrouh Adaptive Research
Centre (MARC) for developing the local research capacity, expertise, and experience in rainfed agriculture
which is lacking in Egypt in addition to the construction of the training center strengthened the technical



                                                     - 15 -

base for sustainability. The establishment of a triangular operational approach, integrating adaptive
research   with    extension    and   local   communities    will improved      the   potential  spillover of
research/extension/development and led to the evolution of a research center for the development of low
rainfall areas not only in Egypt but also worldwide.

Throughout the implementation of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation continued
to ensure the adequacy and timely allocation of resources to achieve project goals. The MALR also was in
compliance with all management and audit covenants of the credit agreement. The project management was
able to implement the project efficiently and effectively. The procurement process as well as all financial
processes were in compliance with IDA/WB procedures and in consistency with Government procedures.
The project has actually provided unique opportunities to build expertise and gain experiences in the
management of natural resources in the low rainfed areas where poor and ultra-poor populations are living.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
    International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA): ICARDA provided
technical assistance (4000 person/day, delivered by 51 scientist from 18 nationality), and facilitated about
1500 person/day of overseas training in 12 countries, in addition to extensive in-house and on-job training
of project staff and local communities. ICARDA technical assistance (ITA) was implemented by short (1-3
week) missions, a resident coordinator and a soil-water engineer. ITA supported the formulation and
conduct of `adaptive research for development' programs to promote technologies for sustainable resource
management, diversified and more productive crop/range/livestock farming systems. MRMP was designed
properly to achieve its objectives, which were well stated to tackle biophysical, socioeconomic, and
institutional constraints to sustainable natural resource management, and poverty alleviation. However, due
to overestimate of local capacity, the design neglected the need for international ITA for the project's core
developmental area of the soil and water interventions, such as water harvesting, soil conservation, and
integrated watershed management. At the very early stage of ITA implementation, ICARDA's management
responded positively to Project's request, shifting the assignments from local to international. The time and
capacity building requirements for effective implementation of community participation was also
under-estimated, and the reliance on short visits of the "non-ICARDA" consultant was unwise.
Alternatively, a resident expert should have been appointed, at least for the first year or two.

ICARDA partnership has contributed to enhance project performance and achievements. The benefit was,
however, mutual. MRMP provided a good environment for ICARDA to conduct multi-purpose,
multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional `research for development' programs under a wide range of
biophysical and socio-economic diversity, and to assess the adoption and impact at a medium-term
dimension. ICARDA considers MRMP a pioneer project, a unique World Bank's model that could be
copied for the development of marginal, semi-desert drylands in Egypt and worldwide. A major factor in
project success was the employment of decentralized, community-based managerial and operational model
and participatory methodological approaches. It should, however, be emphasized that institutionalizing the
model needs time and intensive human resource development, and this should be considered by the donors
in the design, planning, and implementation of resource management/ rural development projects.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Water harvesting structures supporting                                                    42% of beneficiaries of water harvesting
poorest households.                                                                       structures were from households with per
                                                                                          capita income less than US$250.
Reduction in feed concentrate purchase due                                                67% of surveyed herders reported a
to improvement in range productivity.                                                     reduction in their feed concentrate purchase
                                                                                          by 25%.
Adoption of improved adaptive research/                                                   Adoption of technologies by 56% of crop
management practices.                                                                     producers & 63% of horticulturists surveyed.

Improvement in income due to on- and                                                      58% of sample surveyed reported an
off-farm income-generating activities.                                                    increase in their income by up to 25 % due to
                                                                                          project interventions.

These indicators were obtained from the Adoption and Impact Study (2001) conducted by the PCU/ICARDA.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Water Harvesting

  (a) Cistern construction - 800 cisterns to be 6,365 cisterns (1.06 million m3)            6,954 cisterns (1.074 million m3)
constructed

(b) Concrete reservoir construction            130 reservoirs*                            243 reservoirs (34,195m3)
(c) Roman cistern rehabilitation                  --                                      231 Roman cisterns (89,522 m3)
(d) Earth dyke construction - 500 feddans      367 feddans*                               509 feddans
(e) Stone dykes - 1200 feddans                 2,652 feddans                              2,707 feddans
(f) Cemented dykes- 500 feddans                167 feddans                                167 feddans


2. Watershed Management
(a) Construction of earth/stone dykes - 6000 830 feddans of watershed structures          850 feddans
feddans
(b) Tree belt construction - 100 km            54 km                                      65 km
(c) Over-seeding range areas - 4000 feddans 4000 feddans over-seeded*                     2,260 feddans over-seeded
to be over-seeded


3. Rangeland and Grazing Management
(a) Shrub plantation on communal range -       12,000 feddans*                            18,224 feddans
12,000 feddans to be planted


4. Adaptive Research
(a) Off-station/ on farm research - conduct    Adaptive research conducted on 300 feddans Adaptive research conducted on 350 feddans
on-farm adaptive research on 300 feddans       of rented land                             of rented land
5. Extension and Training
(a) Implement Community Action Plans           38 CAPs implemented                        38 CAPs Implemented
(CAP)

1End of project
* Indicators projected at second Mid-Term Review year 2000.




                                                                  - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Soil and Water Resource Management                           8.03           16.70              207
Rangeland Management                                         1.82             1.85             102
Adaptive Research                                            3.28             5.07             154
Extension and Training                                       4.37             5.70             130
Rural Finance                                                3.77             0.00               0
Project Management & Coordination                            1.81             2.86             158
Monitoring and Evaluation                                    0.64             0.88             138

Total Baseline Cost                                         23.72           33.06
 Physical Contingencies                                      2.36
 Price Contingencies                                         3.45
                        Total Project Costs                 29.53           33.06
                  Total Financing Required                  29.53           33.06


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              1.81         1.86          2.42         6.09
                                  (0.00)           (1.60)      (1.83)          (0.00)       (3.43)
2. Goods                          4.38              0.63         0.50          0.00         5.51
                                  (4.38)           (0.55)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (5.43)
3. Services                       5.86              0.00         0.00          0.00         5.86
                                  (5.86)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (5.86)
4. Rural Finance and              0.00              0.00         3.62          0.00         3.62
Credit
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.44)          (0.00)       (3.44)
5. Range Development              0.00              1.89         0.35          0.00         2.24
                                  (0.00)           (1.65)      (0.31)          (0.00)       (1.96)
6. Operating Costs                0.00              0.00         6.21          0.00         6.21
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.88)          (0.00)       (1.88)
   Total                          10.24             4.33        12.54          2.42         29.53
                                 (10.24)           (3.80)      (7.96)          (0.00)      (22.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             2.28         7.88           5.32        15.48
                                  (0.00)          (1.90)       (7.85)         (0.00)       (9.75)



                                                - 18 -

   2. Goods                                 2.25                1.62             0.60             0.00              4.47
                                           (2.11)              (1.47)           (0.55)            (0.00)           (4.13)
   3. Services                              0.60                0.58             2.86             0.00              4.04
                                           (0.60)              (0.58)           (2.86)            (0.00)           (4.04)
   4. Rural Finance and                     0.00                0.00             0.00             0.00              0.00
   Credit
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Range Development                     0.00                0.00             1.57             0.00              1.57
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)           (1.28)            (0.00)           (1.28)
   6. Operating Costs                       0.00                0.00             6.82             0.00              6.82
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)           (2.23)            (0.00)           (2.23)
       Total                                2.85                4.48             19.73            5.32             32.38
                                           (2.71)              (3.95)           (14.77)           (0.00)           (21.43)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to: (i)
       managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.          IDA         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Soil and Water                  6.82        0.76          2.42        10.62         0.78      5.30       155.7    102.6    219.0
Rangelands                      1.90        0.37                       1.47         0.38                 77.4     102.7
Adaptive Research               3.97        0.10                       3.87         1.20                 97.5    1200.0
Extension                       3.53        1.90                       3.74         1.96                 105.9    103.2
Rural Finance                   3.77        0.92                       0.00         0.00                  0.0      0.0
Project Management              1.30        0.96                       1.49         1.37                 114.6    142.7
Monitoring and Evaluation       0.71        0.09                       0.79         0.09                 111.3    100.0

    Appraisal estimates include contingencies.
   CoF refers to beneficiary contribution to the cost of cistern and dike construction.




                                                            - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Introduction

The main quantifiable benefits associated with MRMP project costs emanate from: (i) an increase in barley
production, (ii) an increase in olive and fig production; and (iii) an increase in rangeland fodder production
and the resulting affect on livestock value added. Table 1 presents the "with" and "without" project barley,
olive and fig yields. Table 2 presents the adoption of MRMP adaptive research interventions for barley,
olives and figs.

Rangelands have been improved mainly through the planting of fodder shrubs (Acacia and Atriplex
species) and re-seeding. On average, "without" project rangeland produces between 20 to 50 feed units
(FU) per feddan/year compared to a "with" project average yield of 450 FU/fd/year. Table 3 presents the
number of feddans of rangeland improved each year under the project.

The MRMP project has also improved the yield and production of other crops such as melon, tomatoes and
kitchen garden production although on a smaller scale than barley and orchard crops. Lack of adoption and
productivity data prevented including them in the economic analysis.

Table 1. With and Without Project Yield of Barley, Olives and Figs (kg/feddan)
____________________________________________________________________________
                    With Project Yield by Type of Rainfall Year         With Project        Average
                     ____________________________________                Weighted           Without
                                                                         Average a/      Project Yields
________________________________________________________________________
                       Poor            Average            Good
Barley b/              260               320               380               306               265
Olives c/              550              1,600             2,200             1,286              865
Figs c/                700              2,200             3,400             1,823             1,200
______________________________________________________________________________
Source: With project yields from MARC research and extension staff, MRMP II Formulation Report, Table 1, page
2, Annex XV, Financial and Economic Analysis.
         Without project yields from Presidents Report, May 3, 1993.

a/       Weights: Poor year (41%), Average year (38%), Good year 21%.
b/       Improved technology consists of new barley variety Giza-126, proper seed rate and two cross cultivations.
c/       Improved technology consists of proper pruning, fertilizer, better harvesting techniques and biological
pest control.




                                                     - 20 -

 Table 2. Adoption of MRMP Adaptive Research Interventions
 ________________________________________________________________________
 Year              Barleya                               Olivesb                                        Figsb
                                     _________________________________                     _____________________
                                     New Area         Rehabilitated     Improving           New Area          Improving
                                      Planted              Areac          Existing           Planted            Existing
                                                                         Orchards                              Orchards
 ________________________________________________________________________
                                ----------------------------------(feddans) ---------------------------------
   1994-95                0               0                  0                0                  0                  0
   1995-96                0               0                  0                0                  0                  0
   1996-97                0             131                 15               90                  0                 60
   1997-98           4,740              536                 200             672                  0               1725
   1998-99          14,220             1,007                365            1,254                 0               3380
   1999-00          33,180             1,390                530            1,836                75               5,035
   2000-01          47,400             1,923                695            2,418               236               6,690
   2001-02          56,880             2,106                860            3,000               242               8,345
   2002-03             -                  -                1,000              -                  -              10,000
 ________________________________________________________________________
 Source: MARC research and extension staff.
 aImproved technology consists of new variety Giza-126, proper seed rate and two cross cultivations.
 bImproved technology consists of proper pruning, fertilizer, better harvesting techniques and biological pest
 control.
 cRehabilitation of non-producing olive groves.
________________________________________________________________________

 Table 3. Area of Rangeland Improved Under the MRMP Project by Year
 ________________________________________________________________________
      Year              Shrubs                 Shrubs               Shrubs            Re-Seeded                 Total
                      Planted to             Planted to         Interplanted          Rangeland
                     Small Areas          Large Fenced               With
                                               Areas                Barley
 ________________________________________________________________________
                    ------------------------------------------Feddans-------------------------------------------------------
    1994-95                 0                     0                    0                    0                     0
    1995-96                638                    0                    0                    0                    638
    1996-97              3,107                    0                    0                   150                  3,257
    1997-98              4,184                   850                 168                   275                  5,477
    1998-99              5,725                  2,913                1,380                 900                 10,918
    1999-00              8,211                  4,563                2,246                1,325                16,345
    2000-01              9,047                  5,601                2,951                1,825                19,424
    2001-02              9,047                  6,226                2,951                2,450                20,674
 ________________________________________________________________________
 Source: MRMP Range Land Component.


Economic Benefits

Benefit streams from the MRMP quantifiable interventions are derived first by identifying the net economic
benefits/feddan from crop and rangeland budgets. These are then applied to the number of feddans adopted
to obtain an aggregate economic benefit for the project area. Output and input prices used in the analysis
are presented in Table 4. The crop and livestock models are presented in Tables 5 through 13.




                                                              - 21 -

Table 4 . Financial and Economic Prices for 2001
________________________________________________________________________
                                   Unit                Financial                Economic
                                                          Price                   Price
________________________________________________________________________
Outputs:
Agricultural Outputs
Barley grain                         kg                    0.6                     0.51
Barley straw                         kg                    0.15                    0.15
Figs                                 kg                    0.85                    0.85
Olives                               kg                    0.85                    0.85
Livestock Production
Lambs                                kg                    10.0                    10.0
Inputs:
Agricultural Inputs
Seed barley                          kg                    1.0                      0.9
Machine ploughing                   hour                   12                      10.9
Machine ploughing-orchards          hour                   10                        9
Machine threshing                   hour                   20                       18
Manure for trees                  7 kg bag                 0.5                     0.45
Labour
Pruning (hired)                  Person-day                15                       7.5
Harvesting (hired)               Person-day                15                       7.5
Family labour                    Person-day                 0                       5.0
________________________________________________________________________
Source: Adapted from MRMP II Formulation Report, Annex XV, Financial and Economic Analysis.

(1) Barley Production

Table 5 presents the rainfed barley production model. The economic analysis indicates an incremental
"with" project economic benefit/fd of LE 36.1/fd over the "without" project economic benefit.
_____________________________________________________________________




                                                 - 22 -

 Table 5. Rainfed Barley Budget
 _________________________________________________________________________
                     Unit/feddan          Physical Units/feddan                Economic Analysis
                                       ________________________           _________________________
                                        Without             With           Without               With
                                         Project           Project          Project             Project
 ________________________________________________________________________
 Output/Revenue                                                           ----------------LE----------------
 Grain                    kg               265               310a            135.2               158.1
 Straw                    kg               500               750              75.0               112.5

 Total Revenue            LE                -                  -             210.2               270.6

 Inputs/Costs
 Seed                     kg              20.0                30              18.0                27.0
 Ploughing              Hours              1.5               2.0              16.2                21.6
 Threshing              Hours             1.45               2.0              26.1                36.0
 Family labour        Person-day          16.0               16.0             80.0                80.0


 Total Costs                                -                 -              140.3               164.6


 Economic Benefits                          -                 -               69.9               106.0
 ________________________________________________________________________
 Source: Physical Units from MRMP/MARC
 aFor the analysis, the 306 kg/fd from Table 1 is rounded upward to 310 kg/fd to be consistent with MARC
 budgets.

(2) Olive Production

Olive production has been improved by the MRMP project through three separate activities: (i)
improvement of existing producing orchards; (ii) rehabilitation of non-producing orchards; and (iii)
establishment of new olive orchards. Each requires a separate budget because of the yield lags and input
cost differences. Table 6 presents the budget for the improvement of producing olive orchards. The peak
production in the third and following years results in a "with" project incremental economic benefit of LE
158.7/fd. Table 7 presents the budget for rehabilitation of non-producing olive orchards with peak
production occurring in the fifth year. Tables 8 and Table 9 present the technical coefficients and economic
analysis for the establishment of new olive orchards.




                                                       - 23 -

Table 6. Budget for Improvement of Producing Olive Orchards
________________________________________________________________________
                       Unit/               Physical Units                         Economic Analysis
                      Feddan    ________________________________        _______________________________
                               Without           With Project          Without               With Project
                                Project   _______________________      Project      _______________________
                                          Year 1    Year 2   Year 3                 Year 1     Year 2       Year 3
________________________________________________________________________
Output/Revenue                                                          ----------------------LE--------------------
Yield                    kg       865       865      1,050    1,280a    735.3        735.3      892.5       1,088.0

Inputs/Costs
Ploughing              Hour        3         3         3        3         27           27         27           27
Manure                 7 kg        0        20        20        20         0            9          9            9
Pest Control            LE         0        100      100       100         0          100         100         100
Bagging/Transport       LE        55        55        60        60        55           55         60           60
Labour
Pruning (hired)        P-day       0         2         2        2          0           15         15           15
Family Labour          P-day       3        13        13        13        15           65         65           65
Harvesting (hired)     P-day       5         5         6        7        37.5         37.5       45.0         52.5

Total Costs                                                             134.5        308.5        321        328.5

Economic Benefits                                                       600.8        426.8      571.5        759.5
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Source: Physical Units from MRMP/MARC
aFor the analysis, the 1,286 kg/fd from Table 1 is rounded downward to 1,280 kg/fd to be consistent with
MARC budgets.




                                                      - 24 -

Table 7. Budget for Rehabilitation of Non-Producing Olive Orchards
________________________________________________________________________
                       Unit/               Physical Units                         Economic Analysis
                      Feddan    ________________________________        _______________________________
                                Years    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5     Years      Year 3     Year 4        Year 5
                                1 & 2                       Onward      1 & 2                             Onward
________________________________________________________________________
Output/Revenue                                                         ----------------------LE----------------------
Yield                    kg       0        600      1,100    1,280a       0          510        935         1,088

Inputs/Costs
Ploughing              Hour       3         3         3         3        27           27         27           27
Manure                 7 kg       20       20        20        20         9           9           9            9
Pest Control            LE        50       100      100       100        50          100        100           100
Bagging/Transport       LE        0        55        60        60         0           55         60           60
Labour
Pruning (hired)        P-day      4         2         2         2        30           15         15           15
Family Labour          P-day      13       13        13        13        65           65         65           65
Harvesting (hired)     P-day      0         5         6         7         0          37.5        45          53.5


Total Costs                                                             181.0       308.5      321.0        328.5


Economic Benefits                                                       -181        201.5       614         759.5

______________________________________________________________________________________
Source: Physical Units from MRMP/MARC
aFor the analysis, the 1,286 kg/fd from Table 1 is rounded downward to 1,280 kg/fd to be consistent with
MARC budgets.

Table 8. Technical Coefficients for Establishment of New Olive Orchards
______________________________________________________________________________________
                       Unit/      Year       Year       Year       Year        Year          Year         Year 9
                      feddan     1, 2 & 3      4          5          6            7            8              &
                                                                                                         Onward
________________________________________________________________________
Output
Yield                    kg         0         100        200        500         800          1,000         1,280

Inputs
Ploughing               Hour        3          3          3          3            3            3              3
Manure                  7 kg        20        20         20         20           20           20              20
Pest Control             LE         0         50         75         100         100           100            100
Bagging/Transport        LE         0         25         25         55           55           60              60
Labour
Pruning (hired)        P-day        0          2          2          2            2            2              2
Family Labour          P-day        13        13         13         13           13           13              13
Harvesting (hired)     P-day        0          1          2          4            5            6              7
______________________________________________________________________________________
Source: Physical Units from MRMP/MARC
aFor the analysis, the 1,286 kg/fd from Table 1 is rounded downward to 1,280 kg/fd to be consistent with
MARC budgets.




                                                      - 25 -

 Table 9. Budget for Establishment of New Olive Orchards
 ______________________________________________________________________________

                                   Year       Year       Year       Year       Year       Year       Year 9
                                 1, 2 & 3       4          5          6          7          8          &
                                                                                                    Onward
 ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________


 Gross Revenue (LE/fd)               0         85         170        425        680        850       1,088

 Input Costsa (LE/fd)
 Ploughing                          27         27         27         27         27         27          27
 Manure                              9          9          9          9          9          9          9
 Pest Control                        0         50         75         100        100        100        100
 Bagging/Transport                   0         25         25         55         55         60          60
 Labour Costs (LE/fd)
 Pruning (hired)                     0          0         15         15         15         15          15
 Family Labour                      65         65         65         65         65         65          65
 Harvesting (hired)                  0         7.5        15         30        37.5        45         52.5
 Total Costs (LE/fd)               101        198.5       231        301        308        321       328.5

 Economic Benefits (LE/fd)         -101       -113.5      -61        124       371.5       529       759.5
 ______________________________________________________________________________________
 aEstablishment costs included in project costs

(3) Fig Production

Fig production has been improved by the MRMP project through two separate activities: (i) improvement
of existing producing orchards, and (ii) establishment of new fig orchards. Each requires a separate budget
because of the yield lags and input cost differences. Table 10 presents the budget for improvement of
producing fig orchards. Tables 11 and 12 present the coefficients and economic analysis for the
establishment of new fig orchards.




                                                       - 26 -

Table 10. Budget for Improvement of Producing Fig Orchards
________________________________________________________________________
                      Unit/              Physical Units                       Economic Analysis
                     Feddan    ________________________________     _______________________________
                              Without         With Project         Without               With Project
                               Project  _______________________    Project      _______________________
                                        Year 1    Year 2  Year 3                Year 1      Year 2      Year 3
________________________________________________________________________
Output/Revenue                                                      ----------------------LE--------------------
Revenue                 kg      1,200    1,200    1,500    1,840a   1,020        1,020       1,275      1,564

Inputs
Ploughing              Hour       3        3        3        3        27           27         27           27
Manure                 7 kg       0       20        20       20        0            9          9            9
Pest Control           LE         0      100       100      150        0          100         100         150
Bagging/Transport      LE        100     150       190      190      100          150         190         190
Labour
Pruning (hired)       P-day       2        4        4        4        15           30         30           30
Family Labour         P-day       6       10        12       14       30           50         60           70
Harvesting (hired)    P-day      10       22        25       28       75          165        187.5        210

Total Costs                                                          247          531        603.5        686

Economic Benefits                                                    773          489        671.5        878
________________________________________________________________________
Source: Physical Units from MRMP/MARC
aFor the analysis, the 1,823 kg/fd from Table 1 is rounded upward to 1,840kg/fd to be consistent with
MARC budgets.


Table 11. Technical Coefficients for Establishment of New Fig Orchards
______________________________________________________________________________

                       Unit/     Year      Year       Year      Year       Year           Year        Year 9
                      feddan    1, 2 & 3     4          5         6           7             8             &
                                                                                                     Onward
________________________________________________________________________
Output
Yield                   kg         0       100         300       500        1200          1,500        1,840

Inputs
Ploughing              Hour        3         3          3         3           3             3             3
Manure                 7 kg        20       20         20        20          20            20            20
Pest Control            LE         0        50         75        100        100           100            150
Bagging/Transport       LE         0        75         100       100        150           190            190
Labour
Pruning (hired)        P-day       0         4          4         4           4             4             4
Family Labour          P-day       6         6          7         8          10            12            14
Harvesting (hired)     P-day       0         2          6        10          22            25            28
______________________________________________________________________________________
Source: Physical Units from MRMP/MARC
aFor the analysis, the 1,823 kg/fd from Table 1 is rounded upward to 1,840 kg/fd to be consistent with
MARC budgets.




                                                    - 27 -

 Table 12. Budget for Establishment of New Fig Orchards
 ______________________________________________________________________________

                                  Year        Year    Year      Year       Year       Year     Year 9
                                 1, 2 & 3       4       5         6           7         8        &
                                                                                               Onward
 ________________________________________________________________________

 Gross Revenue (LE/fd)              0           85    255        425       1,020      1,275     1,564

 Input Costsa (LE/fd)
 Ploughing                          27          27     27         27         27        27        27
 Manure                             9           9       9         9           9         9         9
 Pest Control                       0           50     75        100        100        100       150
 Bagging/Transport                  75         100    100        150        150        190       190
 Labour Costs (LE/fd)
 Pruning (hired)                    0           30     30         30         30        30        30
 Family Labour                      30          30     35         40         50        60        70
 Harvesting (hired)                 0           15     45         75        165       187.5      210
 Total Costs (LE/fd)                141        261    321        431        531       603.5      686

 Economic Benefits (LE/fd)         -141        -176    -66        -6        489       671.5      878
 ______________________________________________________________________________________
 aEstablishment costs included in project costs

(4) Improved Rangeland Productivity

Improved rangeland, on average, yields approximately 400 to 450 FU/fd/year relative to unimproved
rangeland yield of 20 to 50 FU/fd/year (1 FU = feed equivalent of 1 kg barley). Thus, the incremental
value of fodder is approximately 400 FU/fd. The economic value of range fodder is about LE 0.6/FU thus
an estimate of the yearly value of the improved rangeland by the end of the project would be LE 4.9
million (LE 240/fd x 20,674 fd). The improved rangeland fodder is fed to sheep and goats at a conversion
rate of about 1 kg liveweight for each 5 FU range fodder. On this basis, the yearly incremental liveweight
gain per feddan is 80 kg. This results in an incremental economic benefit of LE 400/fd (Table 13) or LE
8.2 million from improved rangeland at project end when the value added from livestock is included
Information on adoption and use of incremental fodder from improved rangeland was unavailable
to form livestock budget models and follow the methodology used in the ERR analysis carried out
at appraisal. The value added LE 400/fd is used in the analysis and applied to the area of rangeland
improved in Table 3 to obtain the benefit stream. In the calculation, there is zero rangeland fodder produced
in the year planted, 50 FU/fd in year two, 300 FU/fd in year three and 400FU/fd, thereafter.




                                                    - 28 -

Table 13. Value Added From Range Land Improvement
________________________________________________________________________
                         Unit/Feddan           Without                With              Increment
                                                Project              Project
________________________________________________________________________
Production
Rangeland Fodder               FU                  50                  450                  400b
Liveweight Gaina               kg                  10                  90                   80


Economic Benefits c            LE                  50                  450                  400
________________________________________________________________________
a/      Conversion ratio of 5 kg range fodder to 1 kg liveweight.
b/      Zero production in year of planting, 50 FU in second year, 300 FU in third and 400 FU each year after.
c/      Based on a net return of LE 5/kg liveweight. The economic market price is LE 10/kg liveweight and
        economic costs are LE 5/kg liveweight. Costs include pricing of additional water used for livestock from
        project cisterns. Establishment cost of rangeland improvements and cisterns are included as MRMP
        project and beneficiary costs (costs adapted from MRMP II Formulation Repor, Annex XV, Financial
        and Economic Analysis).

Economic Costs

Economic costs include project investment and recurrent costs from 1993 to 2002 for the components of:
(i) water harvesting and watershed management; (ii) rangeland and grazing management; (iii) adaptive
research; (iv) extension and training; and (v) project management (PCU). Beneficiary costs are also
included. Investment costs were adjusted by a SCF of 0.9. For the analysis, constant 2001 costs were used
(for conversion, the Egyptian consumer price index from International Financial Statistics was used).

Estimation of Project ERR

The economic analysis indicated a ERR of 13.0% which is marginally higher than to the ERR at appraisal
of 12.1% (Table 14). Table 15 presents the results from a sensitivity analysis of increasing and decreasing
the benefit stream and the cost steam by 10% and 20% respectively.

Project benefits were projected beyond the project ending date of 2002 for a total of 30 years starting in
1993 as was done in the analysis undertaken at appraisal. It was assumed that adoption of barley
interventions would increase from 60% in 2001-02 to 70% of total barley area in 2002-03 and remain at
this figure to the end of the 30 year time period. Indications are that this had happened in 2002-03. It was
also assumed that the adoption of olive, fig and rangeland interventions would remain the same as they
were at the end of the project over the 30 year period.

The main differences between the ICR and appraisal ERR are:

·       The appraisal economic analysis did not include the project costs for research activities or for
watershed management.

·       With and without project fig yields in the appraisal analysis were much higher than those used in
the present study. The present study used the yields that were used in the MRMP-II appraisal formulation



                                                     - 29 -

document.

·       The benefit stream of the appraisal economic analysis included projected productivity increases
from field vegetable interventions.

·       The appraisal economic analysis employed a more robust budgeting model to identify the value
added from using incremental rangeland fodder.

 Table 14. Economic Analysis
 ________________________________________________________________________
         Year                        Total Benefits              Total Project Costs                       Benefits - Costs
 ________________________________________________________________________
                               -----------------------------------------------LE -----------------------------------------------
         1993-94                                         0                          576,359                             -576,359
         1994-95                                         0                        1,797,139                           -1,797,139
         1995-96                                  31,900                          7,045,588                           -7,013,688
         1996-97                                 142,754                         10,612,268                          -10,469,514
         1997-98                                   -4,686                        12,727,099                          -12,731,785
         1998-99                               1,587,787                         13,898,317                          -12,310,530
         1999-00                               4,484,932                         19,338,662                          -14,853,731
         2000-01                               7,540,904                         19,844,089                          -12,303,186
         2001-02                               9,941,435                          7,899,886                            2,041,548
         2002-03                             11,675,861                           2,265,814                            9,410,046
         2003-04                             13,458,263                                                               13,458,263
         2004-05                             14,729,856                                                               14,729,856
         2005-06                             15,640,271                                                               15,640,271
         2006-07                             16,350,332                                                               16,350,332
         2007-08                             16,785,375                                                               16,785,375
         2008-09                             17,088,733                                                               17,088,733
         2009-10                             17,173,096                                                               17,173,096
            to
         Year 30                               17173096                                                               17173,096
 ERR = 13.0%
 ________________________________________________________________________

 Table 15. Sensitivity Analysis
 ________________________________________________________________________
                                                           Percentage Change
                      ________________________________________________________
                           +10%                        +20%                         -10%                         -20%
 ________________________________________________________________________
                              --------------------------------ERR-------------------------------
 Benefit Stream            14.2%                       15.9%                       11.7%                         10.3%

 Cost Stream               11.8%                       10.8%                       14.4%                         16.0%
 ________________________________________________________________________




                                                             - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/05/1991
              05/12/1992

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/06/1992
              04/19/1993

 Supervision

              06/09/1993                1    SR. NAT. RESOURCE SPEC (1)       1               1
              12/10/1993                5    SR. NAT. RESOURCE SPEC           1               1
                                             (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             SR. IRRIGATION ENGR* (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             LIVESTOCK SPEC. (1)
              07/04/1994                5    SR NAT RESOURCES SPEC            HS             HS
                                             (1); SR AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             CREDIT SPECIALIST (1); SR
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)
              11/04/1994                1    SR. NAT. RESOURCES SPE (1)       S               S
              04/15/1995                5    WID SPECIALIST (1); NAT.         S               S
                                             RESOURCE MGT. SPE (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              01/26/1996                6    NAT. RESOURCE MGT. SPEC          S               S
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1); CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
              07/25/1996                4    AGRIC. ECON. (CONS. ) (1);       S               S
                                             SR. IRRIG. ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST/RANGE (1)
              10/24/1997                3    SR.IRRIG.ENGINEER (1),           S               S
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1), AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              05/13/1998                4    TEAM LEAD/SR. AGRICULT.          S               S
                                             (1); PR. IRRIGATION
                                             ENGINEER (1); SR.
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1); SR.
                                             SOC. SCIENTIST (1)



                                              - 31 -

               11/23/1998                       4   PR. IRRIGATION ENGINEER            S    S
                                                    (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                                    SR. SOC. SCIENTIST (1); SR.
                                                    NATURAL RES. SP. (1)
               06/07/1999                       5   PRIN. IRRIG. ENGINEER (1);         S    S
                                                    SENIOR AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                                    NATURAL RESOURCE SPEC.
                                                    (1); SR. SOCIAL SCIENTIST
                                                    (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)
               11/07/1999                       5   PRINCIPAL IRRIG.ENGINEER           S    S
                                                    (1); SENIOR SOCIAL
                                                    SCIENTIST (1); SENIOR
                                                    AGRICULTURIST (1); SOCIAL
                                                    SCIENTIST (1); SR NATURAL
                                                    RESOURCES S (1)
               05/31/2000                       3   IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);           S    S
                                                    SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                                    AGRICULTURIST (1)
               11/15/2000                       5   SR. IRRIGATION ENGINEER            S    S
                                                    (1), AGRICULTURIST (1),
                                                    AGR. ECONOMIST (1), SNR.
                                                    SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1),
                                                    FINANCIAL MGMT
                                                    SPECIALIST (1),
               06/15/2001                       5   AGR. SERVICES SPEC. (1);
                                                    NATURAL RESOURCE SPEC.
                                                    (1); FARMER ORG. SPEC. (1);
                                                    WATER/SOIL RES.MNGMT.
                                                    (1); SOCIAL SIENTIST (1)

 ICR
               02/07/2003                       2    AGR. ECONOMIST (1),               S    S
                                                     NATURAL RESOURCE
                                                     SPEC. (1)

*Senior Irrigation Engineer/TTL also acted as Procurement Specialist/ PAS.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     34.0                         115.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          62.1                         230.6
  Supervision                                   147.4                         534.5
  ICR                                               9                           19.4
  Total                                         252.5                         899.8




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Community participation
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.     Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (Report No. P-6012-EGT), May, 3, 1993.

2.     Implementation Project File, MRMP, Arab Republic of Egypt, May 4, 1993.

3.     MRMP Supervision Reports, Aide Memoires, and Mid-Term Review Reports, 1993-2002.

4.     Impact Assessment of Rangeland Improvement Activities in MRMP, Andrea Pape-Christiansen,
Consultants Report, May, 2000.

5.     Adoption and Impact of MRMP Interventions on Project Beneficiaries, PCU/ICARDA, July 2001.

6.     International Advisory Panel. End of Mission Reports. Matrouh Resources Management Project.
Various years.

7.     MRMP Phase II Formulation Report, November, 2001.

8.     MRMP Phase II Project Appraisal Document, February 6, 2003.




                                                - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower Completion Report


                MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LAND RECLAMATION

                       MATRUH RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                               (1994 ­ 2002)


                                  Implementation Completion Report

1.       Introduction

The sustainable management and development of the natural resources in the northwest coast of Egypt will
remain very important goals in the near future and the long term because of its importance for livelihood of
local communities and economics. The project was designed to provide adequate support to local
communities for implementing approaches and improved measures to tackle the resource degradation
problems and achieve sustainable natural resource management and socio-economic development. The
project was financed by WB/IDA with a Government and beneficiary contributions. This "Implementation
Completion Report" is prepared for evaluating the project implementation during the project life from 1994
to 2002 in terms of performance, outputs and impact on the livelihood of local people and the resource
base.

2.       Project Objectives and Components

The objective of the Matruh Resource Management Project was to break the cycle of degradation in the
natural resources and alleviate poverty in the northwest coast of Egypt. The project included seven
components; water harvesting and watershed management; rangeland management; adaptive research;
extension; rural credit; project management and monitoring and evaluation.

Two Mid-term assessments were carried out in 1997 and 2000 for evaluating the project implementation.
The key change which took place in the first mission in October 1997 was the cancellation of the rural
credit component because of impossibility of reaching a workable mechanism with any banking institutions
operating in the project area. The rural credit fund was reallocated to support water harvesting and
watershed management component and for demonstrating small-scale income generating activities proposed
by the local communities. The rest of the project components remained the same through out project
implementation. Some minor changes were made in the magnitude of some activities within components.

3.       Quality at Entry

The project objectives were consistent with the government strategy to conserve and manage the natural
resources of the dryland areas in Egypt for alleviating poverty of the local population. The project also
targeted generation, testing and dissemination of the new technologies for arresting the specific problems
for which the project was established to solve. The project design was consistent with project objectives
and reflected all the lessons learnt from all previous projects implemented in the region. The utilization of
the existing tribal structure and the emphasis on participation of local communities in project design and
implementation was particular importance for ensuring sustainability. Implementation of project activities
through five sub-regional support centers established in the project area has greatly enhanced the
interaction with the local communities and decentralization process and brought together adaptive research



                                                    - 36 -

and extension closer to the local communities. The establishment of the training center has contributed
effectively to the dissemination of information and test proven technologies. The women in development
officers and specialists also helped in reaching more women beneficiaries. The establishment of Matruh
Adaptive Research Centre, fully staffed and equipped, has helped to overcome deficiencies of research and
development endeavors in addressing farmers' problems in addition to solving problem scattered, ad hoc
and piecemeal based centrally-managed research activities implemented during the last decades. All other
covenants related to management and audit and counterpart funding requirements were also satisfactory.

The implementation of the project has faced some delays during the first four years, but starting from the
beginning of 1998 the processing was timely and satisfactory. Risk identification and solutions proposed
were appropriate. The significant risks identified were linked to low uptake of participatory approach, low
uptake of credit and weak coordination. However, the project emphasis on participation and coordination
has largely alleviated the risks related to participation and coordination processes.

4.       Project Achievements and Outputs

The following are the achievements of the project which are highly likely to be sustained:

         (i)   The project has developed and adopted its innovative managerial and operational model
               based on bottom-up planning and community based participatory approaches. Although, the
               model is still developing and needs augmentation and institutionalization, but it has ensured
               efficient collaboration of all project components and programs and guaranteed the effective
               participation, acceptance and adoption of targeted beneficiaries and would lead certainly to
               the sustainability of project impacts.

         (ii)  For implementing project activities, 38 community action plans (CAP's) were prepared and
               implemented with technical support of the project by using the 38 small socially coherent
               planning units (local communities) to analyze the resource base and assess the sustainable
               development possibilities. The CAP's including activities, priorities implementation
               responsibilities and monitoring and evaluation and were contracted for implementation in
               three years with community responsibilities. The model still needs augmentation and
               institutionalization. The preparation of the CAP's was lengthy process and consumed time
               because of the complexity of the tribal society and lack of experience of project staff and
               needs continued efforts in capacity building.

         (iii) Because scarcity of water is definitely the first critical constraint to development in the
               project area, water security has been given the first priority by the local communities. The
               project has constructed 6,954 cisterns and 243 concrete reservoirs and rehabilitated 231
               ancient Roman cisterns with a total storage capacity of 1,223,707 m3. The construction of
               these 7,428 water facilities is representing 480% increase of that envisaged at appraisal.

         (iv)  Stone dykes were constructed on 2,720 feddans (with total structural works of 122,415.5
               m3). This actually because the construction of this type of dykes is maintaining the water
               distribution rights in the project area and keeping balance between the development of the
               upstream and downstream areas. The earthen dykes were constructed on 500 feddans
               (22,908 m3) and cemented dykes were also constructed on 160 feddans.

These achievements show clearly that implementation of water harvesting sub-component was highly
satisfactory and increased the water supply by more than 50% of the supply that was available before



                                                       - 37 -

project initiation. The demand remained very high until the end of the project.
Moreover, improvements of structure designs were implemented for cost saving and more water storage
and use efficiency (hand pumps, gasoline pumps, plastic houses and drip irrigation). In addition, many new
techniques were introduced such as the contour ridges, semi-circles, roller compacted concretes and
gabions. Extensive program of workshops and field days on maintenance of structures, water use efficiency
and water purification techniques were carried out for improving the awareness and skill of the local
communities and for the sustainability.

Integrated watershed management approach has been also introduced and implemented as a planning tool
for sustainable resource development and conservation. A total of 42,455.74 m3 of structural works have
been implemented to control erosion in the project area. Also, many soil conservation measures were
introduced to protect soil surface from wind and water erosion such as the reseeding of 2,259 feddans of
deteriorated rangelands in the communal rangelands of the watersheds by perennial plant species and the
planting of 64 km of shelterbelts in addition to different options including linking with range development,
diversification of farming systems and providing extra protection measures to stabilize sand movement
along farm borders and roads. Although implementation was initially slow but demand increased
significantly until the end of the project and has led to protect soil surfaces from erosion in about 10,000
feddans and increased directly the cultivated areas by 1,000 feddans. The installation of weather stations
and automatic recording and non-recording rain gauges will certainly help in fulfilling the gap of
information and support sustainable development.

For improving rangelands and grazing management, the project has supported beneficiaries to collect about
12 tons of indigenous seeds and multiplicate them in 16 privately-owned small nurseries for the production
of 6.4 million seedlings planted in the project area. 3,666 beneficiaries have benefited from the planting of
fodder trees and shrubs in small non-fenced areas (9,000 feddans), larger fenced areas (6,250 feddans) and
interplanting shrubs on barley fields (2,951 feddans). In addition, a total of 2,450 feddans of deteriorated
rangelands were reseeded. A newly-fodder species such as spineless cactus were introduced. These
achievements are representing 122% of that planned and implementation was high and the impact is very
high as it has improved economic returns from livestock production by contributing to feed gap recovery,
increasing cheap forage availability, reducing concentrate use and availing green forage materials in the
summer time, and for recovering the vegetative cover and enhance resource use sustainability and
biodiversity.
Efficient extension system, well staffed, equipped and integrated in its activities with other components of
the project, was established by the project. The system provided effective extension services to 38 local
communities.

A variety of extension methodologies, technologies and approaches were used, focusing on field
demonstrations and field days, training farmers and utilizing Multi-media audiovisual techniques and
outputs. These were prepared and employed in close collaboration with other components. More than 406
extension workshops and field demonstrations of 993 training days were carried out in the project area and
attended by almost 8,000 project beneficiaries. The establishment of the project effective Multi-media Unit
has contributed effectively to the production of written and audiovisuals materials that enhanced technology
transfer and improved communication with dispersed targeted population of the project. Extensive services
were provided to local women, with emphasis on literacy education (6,697 girls), improving nutritional and
health conditions, environmental awareness, enhancing the contribution of women to family income (in kind
credit), and encouraging and supporting the establishment of women NGOs for facilitating marketing.
Farmers demand for these activities were very high and their benefits were significant.

Concerning crop improvement activities, the project has introduced new barley varieties (26,055 feddans),


                                                    - 38 -

farming practices and system improvement, introducing legume in crop rotation (218 feddans) and fodder
shrub interplanting (50 feddans). Crop improvement program helped the farmers to increase their
horticulture by transferring the new technologies and improved management practices (pruning, manuring,
supplemental irrigation and IPM) for figs, olives and other fruit trees. The project has supported the
enhancement of orchard establishment by the planting of 159,403 fruit trees of different species on 2,280
feddans in the project area and the production of vegetables for household consumption by availing more
water storage to increase the areas and by improved management practices to increase productivity.
Implementation has a higher impact on the beneficiaries' income.
Animal production is a major source of income in the project area. The project activities focused on animal
feeding and how to reduce concentrate use and cover part of the feed gap by demonstrating the new
technologies of animal feeding, rotating rams and supporting the availability of veterinary services.
Implementation has a direct impact on the farmers' income. The project also introduced new economic
activities on a small scale as demonstrations for testing such as beekeeping, jojoba planting, date palms
plantation and fishery.

The applied research component was designed to respond to the crucial and immediate needs of the
development in the region. The Matruh Adaptive Research Centre and its training facility was constructed,
fully staffed and equipped to support sustainable development in the region. Major farming systems were
characterized for problem identification and 10 research themes on improved technologies were satisfactory
implemented in the three agro-ecological zones of the project area. Test proven recommendations on 40
topics/problems were developed and disseminated in collaboration with extension and technical units and
with participation of the local communities. Results were documented and publicized. Implementation will
contribute significantly to sustainable development.

The rural infrastructure works such as the construction of 33 social development centers and 291 one-class
schools were designed to provide isolated target communities with access to basic services to improve their
living conditions. Sustainability of these rural infrastructures may pose some problems in the future. The
relevant governmental development organizations will be consulted for ensuring adequate staffing and
maintenance after the project closure.

The project has developed its effective monitoring and evaluation system fully staffed and equipped
envisaging the critical role of the system as a management toll for M&E project performance and its impact
on the resource base and the socio-economic status of its beneficiaries. The system including both database
and GIS and conducted many surveys and studies such as Beneficiary Contact Monitoring and case studies
for adoption and Impact Assessment of project outputs.

Institutional strengthening was one of the distinguished achievements of the project, technical assistance
and training were used to strengthen the planning, technical and implementation capacity of the project and
the planning and implementation of capabilities of the local communities and staff. Local and overseas
training was conducted at two levels, for the local communities members and the project staff. Technical
assistance and extensive on the job training was also efficiently provided by 179 national and international
consultants with a total of 3,000 m/d. The implementation had its strong impact on staff capabilities and
sustainable development.

Project management has realized distinguished achievements reflected by enhanced implementation of other
components, and by the satisfaction of local communities. Fund disbursement (including commitments)
reached 100% by December 2002. Needed staff members were recruited and vehicles and equipment
procured. Infrastructure required for efficient project implementation was established and effective M&E
system was developed.


                                                     - 39 -

5. Project Benefits

Project economic impact has been evaluated and it is found that it has improved the socioeconomic
conditions of 10,440 households in the project area (almost 174% of the targeted at appraisal). The project
increased the perennially cropped areas by implementing water harvesting, watershed and rangeland
management activities. The results of the case studies on the impact of project interventions on productivity
showed that introducing water harvesting structures have more than doubled the productivity of the
horticulture, availing more reliable water for plants, trapping fertile soils, building deep soil profiles,
enlarging soil/water storage, and developing farming systems of much higher productivity and economic
impact. On average, the physical productivity of FS (mainly fig and olive production) was increased by
137% of the productivity before water harvesting. The results also indicate that introducing new high
yielding varieties, supported by improved management practices has increased barley grain productivity in
barley fields by over 70% on about 419,600 feddans (45% of the total barley area). While in barley fields
intercropped with fodder shrubs the yield increased by 81%. Vegetable production was increased by 25%
for rainfed vegetables (mainly melons and onion) and by 35% for supplementary irrigated vegetables. The
project interventions have also increased the fodder production from rangeland improvement activity by FU
9.08 million. The calculation showed that shrub planting has provided FU 3.29 million from 8,212 feddans
planted as small areas; FU 5.14 million from 6,250 feddans planted as large fenced areas; FU 0.22 million
from 2,246 feddans interplanted in barley fields; while reseeding of 2,450 feddans of deteriorated
rangelands has provided FU 0.43 million. The calculations also showed that these project interventions
have increased the feed supply by FU 30.95 million which represents almost 31.1% of the feed gap. Of
these FU 9.08 million from rangeland improvement and FU 21.87 million from barley production.

The environmental impact of the project is strongly positive and would contribute significantly to the
sustainability of resource management, environmental improvement and biodiversity. By reducing runoff
velocity and improving vegetative cover, the project has restored the productivity of degraded soils.
Promotion of water management/conservation and planting fruit trees in promising areas have supported
the transition to more ecologically and agriculturally appropriate systems and reduced erosion. The fencing
of shrub plantation in 250 sites have protected 6,250 feddans of rangelands where the plants are evidently
much more identified and diversified than in the non-fenced vicinity. This will have significant impact on
biodiversity and the environment and would provide sustainable seed supply and protect endangered
species. The implementation of WID activities such as using gas for fuel (gas ovens), the planting of trees
and the establishment of home gardens will contribute significantly to control desertification and enhance
biodiversity.

The project benefits were assessed on the quantifiable benefits from the resource development and plant
and animal production. The results of the Beneficiary Contact Monitoring (BCM) revealed that about 58%
of the total population has benefited (directly or indirectly) from project interventions in terms of increasing
their income; 46% of the poor; 69% of the medium and 77% of the large households. The net income was
increased by 25% for 44% of the population, by 50% or more for about 4%, some 10% benefited but could
not estimate the benefits, and 42% claimed no benefit.
The economic impact of resource development and conservation activities indicate clearly the satisfactory
economic performance of the project. The results of the case studies showed that the 10-year weighted
average of net benefits increased by 88% on average basis due to water harvesting, while, the increase of
net benefit per capita was LE 2,290.00 on average. The introduction of the crop improvement technology
has led to significant increase in barley grain and straw yields (70% and 131% respectively) and this has
increased the net income by 177% from 90 LE/fd to 250 LE/fd. The livestock improvement programs have
also increased the net returns for lamb fattening by almost 64 LE/lamb and women small-scale income



                                                     - 40 -

generating activities for poultry production by LE 367 per production cycles of 20 chickens.

The implementation of the project has also an evident social impact. Communications within local
communities (LC's) and with project management and staff, as well as participation of men and women in
project interventions (including the development of the CAP's) have progressed very well and helped in
building the local capacity, promoted self confidence of beneficiaries and built strong trust, not only with
the project but also with other government officials. As a result, beneficiary pool was enlarged from about
6,000 households at appraisal to more than 10,440 households at the end of the project. Extensive training
and human resource development were implemented, including overseas training, contributing to positively
changing the attitudes of beneficiaries towards economic and social changes. Over 6,071 illiterate girls
were educated. Many thousands of women benefited from extension workshops in improved environmental,
nutritional, and healthy awareness. New income sources and employment opportunities were opened for
men and women.

6. Institutional Development Impact

The project has its impact in strengthening the capacity of MRMP as a development agency as well as the
development of local institutions that are capable of contributing to local development such as General
Directories of Agricultural, Veterinary Services, Irrigation and Water Resources, Housing and
Reconstruction, and Information and Communication and maintained close linkages with local, national,
regional and international development and research institutions. The project built a unique set up of
physical outputs and expertise in the region. Benefits have occurred to local communities, and other
agencies which have cooperated directly or indirectly with MRMP. The coordination process and dialogue
between development organizations have encouraged the decentralized planning and implementation and
prevented the duplication of development programs and activities. The project promoted and implemented
technologies of proven physical, economic, and social impact, emphasizing effective participation of local
communities and considering the important role of rural women in resource use and contributed to women's
development and to family income.
The project also contributed to capacity building for decentralized planning, implementation and monitoring
and     evaluation    through     its   emphasis     on    training    and     the  integration    of   the
research/training/extension/farmer system with development works has contributed to overcoming skill
gaps of the project staff and local people.

7. Factors Affecting the Implementation and Outcome

A few factors have negatively affected project implementation, and many more factors have had a positive
effect. Most of the negative factors are beyond the control of project and the Government and has led to
delays in project implementation such as the harsh environment especially the low and erratic rainfall, the
indigenous traditions and culture of the dispersed Bedouin communities which restricted communication
channels especially of the Bedouin women required long times to prepare CAP's in addition to lack of
experience in some critical areas of work.

On the other hand, the solid IDA/WB supervision missions conducted during project life has effectively
supported implementation process. The open channels of communication between the project management
and the project Task Managers at IDA's HQ in Washington and the Resident Mission in Cairo have
particularly helped in tackling urgent issues and taking necessary actions.

The continuous support of the Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation has ensured the time and
adequate availability of funds for implementing the project successfully and supported the project
management to efficiently utilize and mobilize the project human and physical resources to achieve its



                                                    - 41 -

objectives. The technical assistance and training have played a very important role in improving the
technical design for efficient implementation and contributed to building the technical capacity and self
confidence of the project staff and to the orientation and adoption of their technical capabilities.

8. Sustainability

All development activities funded by the project are likely to be sustained. The consistency of the project
design and implementation with the government strategy and plans for developing the dryland areas of the
northwest coast of Egypt would ensure sustainability. Joint planning and implementation of activities and
project design contributed significantly to increasing the likelihood of sustainability. The full involvement
of the self-motivated beneficiaries in project design, implementation and project monitoring and evaluation
and the high level of beneficiaries ownership of project works will contribute significantly to sustainability.
Building the capacity of the local communities and the project staff with support from MARC and its
training centre will ensure sustainability. The high quality of project outputs will encourage the gradual
shifting of maintenance responsibilities to relevant organizations and the continued adoption of the
improved technology will be increased and be sustained. No major risks to sustainability are foreseen and
the Government commitment for implementing the follow-up project which is already prepared will
contribute significantly to increased sustainability.

9. Transition Arrangements to Regular Operations

The project has established its model of coordination process and dialogue in the region which has
encouraged decentralized planning and implementation, prevented duplication of activities, promoted
self-confidence and built trust between all development agencies. Building the capacity of the project staff
who are seconded from the development agencies operating in the region will facilitate and ensure the
transition to regular operations in the future. The high quality of project outputs will guarantee the gradual
shifting of operations and maintenance responsibilities to relevant organizations in the region especially that
activities were implemented in consistency with the Government strategy for developing the northwest coast
of Egypt.

10. Lessons Learned

The successful implementation of MRMP has provided many important lessons which can contribute to the
attainment of the project goal and guarantee sustainability. Capacity building is crucially needed for local
communities and project staff from the early stages of project preparation and design to ensure that they all
understand their respective roles in achieving the goal and will save time and efforts. Encouraging the
beneficiaries to play effective role in resource allocation and the participation of the Bedouin women and
remaining methodology of planning and implementation flexible to allow field lessons to contribute to
adjustments in project activities and beneficiary needs. The availability of accurate data on the resources of
the local communities and the selection of energetic and progressive local community representatives with
good reputation and in a transparent way will improve implementation of activities and performance of the
community groups. It is very essential to build trusts with the local communities and encourage them to
play effective role in the maintenance and sustainability of the activities. The sustainability of the
production systems requires an integrated approach between the three agro-ecological zones and
development activities and proven successful techniques should be offered spatially              based on site
characteristics as a package for achieving a balanced development. Emphasizing the wider and more
intensive dissemination and promotion of the techniques that require least cost and cause least disruption to
current farming practices will ensure wide replicability and sustainability. Introducing new market-driven
on-farm and off-farm income-generating activities building upon Bedouin available resources, skills and
organizations and taking into account women socio-economic environment and their life style priorities will



                                                     - 42 -

guarantee the continuation of these activities. Adequate capacity is needed to support vertical and
horizontal communication and information systems that permit for coherent data capture, analysis and
monitoring and evaluation between all project units and the headquarter and at the local, regional and
national levels. Adequate government support and institutional coordination to implement the rural credit
program is required to overcome impediments in credit delivery mechanisms. The issue of operation and
maintenance of assets such as education classes, social development centres and roads must be agreed prior
to project implementation, therefore, the relevant agencies can take over this responsibility easily once the
project is complete.




                                                   - 43 -

- 44 -

