CREDIT NUMBER 2504 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Matruh Resource Management Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2504 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             __, 1993, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the Borroker) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association). -
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Area" means the north-west coastal area,
extending from the Libyan border in the west to El-Hikma in the
east;
(b)   "MALR" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Land
Reclamation of the Bcrrower;
(c)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, established
under the Minister of MALR's Decree No. 60 of the year 1993;
(d)   "PCC"  means  the  Project   Coordination  Committee,
established under the Minister of MALR's Decree No. 60 of the year
1993;


﻿-2-
(e)   "NCC" means the National Coordination Committee for the
Project, established under the Minister of MALR's Decree No. 60 of
the year 1993;
(f)   "MRMC" means the Matruh Resource Management Center, to
be established under Part B.1 of the Project;
(g)   "SWMU" means the Soil and Water Management Unit, to be
established under Part B.1 of the Project;
(h)   "PBDAC" means the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit of the Borrower;
(i)   "Participating Banks" means PBDAC and any other banking
institution of the Borrower, with which MALR may conclude arrange-
ments, according to the provisions of paragraph B.4 (b) of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, for the provision of credit under Part C of the
Project;
(j)   "CAP" means a Community Action Plan to be developed and
implemented according to the provisions of paragraph B.1 of Schedule
4 to this Agreement;
(k)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(1)   "Annual Work Program" means the annual work program to
be prepared pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A (3) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)   "SRSC" means a Sub-regional Support Center to be
established under Part B (3) (b) of the Project; and
(n)   "CG" means a Community Group to be established in the
Project Area in accordance with the provisions of paragraph B (1)
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.                                            -
ARTICLE II                                        a-
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies


﻿-3-
equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
2.orrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(C)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other


﻿-4-
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2003 and ending March 1, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2013 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Borrower represents that it has designated
MALR for the purpose of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt
service payments with respect to the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MALR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, technical and administrative practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause MALR to carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing princi-
ples consistently applied, by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
ation has received the audit for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)* ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with


﻿the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the_Borrower; Addresses
Section  6.01. The Minister of State     for International
Cooperation or the First Undersecretary for International Finance of
said Ministry of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
(International Finance Sector)
8 Adly Str-et
Cairo, Egypt
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINISTRY OF                927-23348
INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
d
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By             VL5/ ~ AQ~  MD~     ) L   SC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          ot5 C~v  (14 C) rcf
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Ectuivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works                     4,000,000        85%
(including
rangeland
establish-
ment and
watershed
management)
(2) Goods                     3,900,000        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3) Credit                    2,100,000        100% of amounts
disbursed by the
Participating
Banks on account
of credit under
Part C of the
Project


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Technical                  3,700,000        100%
services,
land surveys,
studies and
training
(5) Operating                  1,100,000        100% for the
expenses                                    fiscal years
ending on June 30,
1995, 90% for the
fiscal years
ending on June 30,
1997, 80% for the
fiscal years
ending on June 30,
1999 and 70% for
subsequent fiscal
years
(6) Unallocated                1,100,000
TOTAL                15,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   disbursement  under Category   (5) of the table in
paragraph (1) of this Schedule shall be made on the basis of
itemized statements of expenditures certified by PCU. Such state-
ments shall include expenditures incurred for purposes of Project


﻿- 11 -
management and administration only with respect to the following
items: (i) consumable, (ii) operation and maintenance costs of
transport and operating equipment, and (iii) field related expendi-
tures for Project staff. During the month of July -i each year, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a statement as to whether
total disbursements under said Category (5) during the fiscal year
ending on the preceding June 30 has been made within the disburse-
ment percentage specified for such fiscal year, and appropriate
adjustment in disbursement shall be made by the Association on the
basis thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (a) to conserve, through a
program for sustainable natural resource management, the water, land
and vegetative resources in the Project area, and (b) to alleviate
poverty and improve the quality of life in the Project Area. The
Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifica-
tions thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Natural Resource Management
1.    Carrying out of environmentally sound water harvesting works,
comprising:
(a)   construction of underground cisterns and reservoirs;
(b)   construction of small earth dikes and stone dikes on
arable land; and
(c)   construction of small cemented dikes to retard flood
flows across wadis in the Project area.
2.    Carrying out of measures for soil conservation and erosion
control, including surveys of vulnerable areas and remedial works of
structural and vegetative nature.
3.    Carrying out a program for planting trees and shrubs on
communal lands and for overseeding of range lands.
Part B:     Adaptive Research and Extension
1.    Construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing of the Matruh
Resource Management Center (MRMC), to be responsible for develop-
ing, testing and dissemination of technologies designed for
conservation of the Project area's natural resources. MRMC shall
also include (a) a Soil and Water Management Unit (SWMU) and (b) a
center for training of Project staff and beneficiaries.
2.    Provision of technical assistance to MRMC in relevant areas
such as range management, agronomy and farming systems research.


﻿- 13 -
3.    Carrying out of measures to strengthen agricultural extension
service in the Project area, including:
(a)   establishment of a multi-media unit, to be responsible
for dissemination of improved agricultural techniques and of
marketing information;
(b)   establishment, equipping and staffing of four Sub-
Regional Support Centers (SRSC) at Ras El-Hikma, Marsa Matruh, El-
Negela and Sidi Barrani; and
(c)   provision to MALR's Directorate of Extension Services in
Matruh of (i) technical assistance in relevant areas such as
extension management and women in development, (ii) staff training,
and (iii) vehicles and equipment.
Part C:     Rural Finance
1.    Provision, through the Participating Banks, of credit for on-
farm and off-farm rural investments.
2.    Provision to the Participating Banks of technical assistance
and staff training required for conducting credit operations under
the Project.
3.    Carrying out of a rural finance and marketing study.
Part D:     Project Management; Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    Provision to PCU of office equipment, technical assistance and
staff training.
2.    Monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, and the
utilization for this purpose of satellite imagery and technical
assistance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $250,000
per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for the construction of buildings, estimated to cost
in the aggregate the equivalent of not more than $800,000 and
contracts for water harvesting, estimated to cost in the aggregate
the equivalent of not more than $1,700,000, and for watershed
management, estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of not
more than $1,300,000, may be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such procedures shall ensure, inter alia
(a) public opening of bids, (b) equal treatment of all bidders in
terms of the requirement of furnishing bid or performance bonds, and
(c) eligibility of representatives of foreign bidders for bidding.


﻿- 15 -
2.    Works for watershed management, estimated to cost the
equivalent of not more than $50,000 per contract and not more than
$250,000 in the aagregate, may be executed by appropriate agencies
of the Matruh Governorate under force account procedures satisfacto-
ry to the Association.
3.    Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of not more
than $30,000 per contract and not more than $100,000 in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of not less
than three suppliers from not less than two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Work for range development, estimated to cost in the aggregate
the equivalent of not more than $350,000, may be carried out under
direct contracting procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Items of goods or works estimated to cost the equivalent of
not more than $30,000 per contract and not more than $250,000 in the
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of not less
than three suppliers or contractors in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
6.    Spare parts, costing in the aggregate the equivalent of not
more than $150,000, may be procured under contracts to be directly
negotiated with the suppliers thereof on terms satisfactory to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more for works or $100,000 or more for
goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.


﻿- 16 -
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Associa-
tion review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reason-
ably determined by the Association and to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.    Project Management
1.    MALR shall have the overall responsibility for Project
implementation. MALR shall, until the completion of the Project,
maintain the existence of NCC under a National Coordinator and with
such operating procedures as shall enable NCC to provide support in
the planning of Project activities, facilitate the taking of
measures required, at the national level, for carrying out such
activities and assist in-ensuring the adequate and timely allocation
of funds required therefor.
2.    MALR shall (a) until the completion of the Project, maintain
the existence of PCU, under a properly qualified and experienced
Project Director, and with qualified staff in adequate numbers to
perform under the Project the functions of planning, procurement,
financial control, monitoring and reporting; (b) Pnsure that the PCC
will continue throughout the period of Project implementation to
assist PCU in the review of CAPs and the Annual Work Programs and in
the conduct of periodic evaluation of Project activities; and (c)
ensure the assignment of properly qualified persons to the position
of Director of MALR's Directorate of Extension Services by December
31, 1993, and to the position of Director of MRMC by June 30, 1994.
3.    PCU shall prepare, starting in September, 1993, an Annual Work
Program, specifying the activities to be carried out under the
Project during the year concerned, the procurement arrangements
thereunder and the resource requirements thereof.
B.    Project Implementation
1.    Community Action Plan (CAP)
In recognition of the fact that the Project area is inhabited
mainly by a tribal population with its distinct customary rules
concerning rights to water, and to grazing and cultivation areas,
the concept of the CAP is adopted to maximize the benefits of
investment for natural resource management, adaptive research,
extension and credit under the Project. For purposes of the
formulation and implementation of CAPs, the following procedures, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall apply:


﻿- 18 -
(a)   the tribal community in each part of the Project area
shall select from its members a Community Group (CG) not to exceed
ten individuals;
(b)   each CG shall develop the elements of its CAP, defining
aspects such as the present state of the local resources, its
existing customary rules for resource utilization, its needs in
terms of investments included under Parts A, B and C of the Project
and the forms of possible collateral that may be provided for
credit;
(c)   the validity of proposals included in a CAP shall be
reviewed by the CG preparing it with the relevant SRSC;
(d)   upon such review, the CAP shall be prepared in a written
form and submitted to the PCU for further review and incorporation
in the Annual Work Program;
(e)   a detailed plan for the carrying out of activities
included in any approved CAP shall be drawn, specifying the
responsibilities of the relevant CG (and members of its community,
if necessary);
(f)   the CG shall be adequately involved in the implementa-
tion of the CAP;
(g)   the relevant SRSC shall keep records pertaining to the
implementation of the CAPs;
(h)   procedures shall be established for evaluation of
progress in implementation of the CAPs and for introducing necessary
revisions thereto; and
(i)   with the exception of the first two CAPs, which shall be
prepared by PCU in coordination with other agencies involved in
Project implementation and the concerned communities, no activities
shall be approved for implementation under Parts A and C of the
Project, unless such activities shall constitute part of a CAP
prepared in accordance with the preceding paragraphs.
2.    Project Institutions:
MALR shall ensure the establishment of MRMC (including its
SWMU and training center), the four SRSCs and the multi-media unit,


﻿- 19 -
referred to in Part B (3) (a) of the Project, in accordance with
time schedules satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
3.    Specific Measures for Project Implementation:
(a)   In order to assist MRMC in its adaptive research
activities, MALR shall establish, by June 30, 1994, an advisory
panel of internationally reputeid specialists in dryland farming
systems.
(b)   Not later than December 1993, MALR shall establish,
through the PCU, procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association for selection of the beneficiaries of water harvesting
works under Part A (1) of the Project, and shall make available to
such beneficiaries (under the relevant CAPs) an amount equivalent to
up to 40% of the estimated cost of such works in the form of a grant
financed from the proceeds of the credit.
(c)   MALR shall ensure (i) the furnishing to the Association
of each Annual Work Program, promptly upon the preparation thereof;
and (ii) the preparation by PCU, in coordination with other agencies
involved in Project implementation, starting in July 1994, and the
furnishing to the Association, of semi-annual reports on progress in
the carrying out of the Project.
(d)   MALR shall conduct the rural finance and marketing
study, referred to in Part C.3 of the Project, and the monitoring
and evaluation and satellite imagery, referred to in Part D.2 of the
Project under terms of reference and in accordance with time
schedules agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(e)   MALR shall conduct, jointly with the Association, by
December 31, 1996, and by December 31, 1998, or such other dates as
the Association may agree, a detailed evaluation of the status of
Project implementation, including a review of the procedures and
terms for credit extended under the Project to determine the
adjustments required thereto in order to ensure effective utiliza-
tion of such credit.
4.    Credit under Part C of the Project is designed as a pilot
program aiming at increasing income and generating employment in the
Project area while enhancing the capacity of rural households to
manage risk. For the extension of such credit the following
arrangements and procedures shall be followed:


﻿- 20 -
(a)   credit services under the Project shall be extended by
(i) the Matruh branch of PBDAC, and (ii) any other banking institu-
tion of the Borrower which operates in Matruh and which desires to
extend such credit services (the Participating Banks).
(b)   MALR shall sign with every Participating Bank an
agreement on terms satisfactory to the Association, which shall
include, inter alia: (i) the amount to be made available for credit
through such Participating Bank; (ii) the guidelines (satisfactory
to the Association) for extension of credit, including the maximum
limit for credit for investment for individuals and CG and the
collateral arrangements, (iii) the transport and office facilities
to be made available for use by the Participating Bank to facilitate
its conduct of credit operation under the Project, (iv) the
requirement that credit be chaged by the Participating Bank,
interest (or other equivalent service charges) at rates conforming
to market rates, and (v) the right of the Participating Bank to
charge for its credit services in the Project area (A) on an annual
basis, a fee equivalent to 4-1/2% of the average outstanding amount
over the preceding quarter of credit extended by such Participating
Bank, and (B) an amount equivalent to 1-1/2% of principal credit
amount repaid to such Participating Bank, and (vi) the requirement
that the Participating Bank furnish quarterly reports to PCU on the
status of its credit activities in the Project area.
(c)   To facilitate the extension of credit, MALR shall
establish a special fund in a commercial bank in Matruh (the
Account). The Account shall be operated as follows:
(i)   the Account shall be fed by advances from the
Special Account, equivalent to projected dis-
bursement under credit for a future six-month
period;
(ii)   each Participating Bank shall have access to
-amounts advanced to the Account, within the total
amount approved for such Participating Bank
according to paragraph (b) above;
(iii)   withdrawal from the Account shall be made by the
Participating Banks only to meet actual disburse-
ment under credit operation;
(iv)   a statement as to the status of the Account shall
be prepared by PCU, (A) on a quarterly basis, and


﻿- 21 -
(B) at any time a replenishment of the Special
Account is requested;
(v)   each Participating Bank shall be paid from the
proceeds of the Account, upon the approval of
PCU, the fee amount due annually to them, pursu-
ant to paragraph (b) (iv) (A) above, at the rate
of 4-1/2% of outstanding credit amnount extended
by it;
(vi)   each Participating Bank shall deposit into the
Account all amounts received by it in debt ser-
vice payments on credit extended by it, after
deducting therefrom, only with respect to repay-
ment of principals of such credit, the amount
referred to in paragraph (b) (iv) (B) above, and
representing 1-1/2% of such repayment of princi-
pals; and
(vii)   amounts due to the Participating Banks pursuant
to the preceding paragraph shall be reduced by an
amount equivalent to 15% of loan losses. Loan
losses shall mean, for purposes of this para-
graph, any overdue debt service payment on credit
extended by the Participating Bank which remains
in arrears for more than three years.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means all Categories,
except Category (6), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
quests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 23 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Sorrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special


﻿- 24 -
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any tine
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expen,iture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expend,'tures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund tc.
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


