Document of                 L   COPY
The World Bank   FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3019-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO JAMAICA
FOR THE
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
FUND PROJECT
April 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Through April 1977        US$1.000   J$0.909         J$1.000   US$1.100
April 1977 - May 1978           - Dual exchange rate system -
May 1978                  US$1.000 = J$1.550         J$1.000   US$0.645
December 1978             US$1.000 = J$1.695         J$1.000   US$0.590
May 1979 - Present        US$1.000 - J$1.783         J$1.000   US$0.561
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BOJ       - Bank of Jamaica
BCJ       - Banana Company Jamaica Ltd.
CARICOM - Caribbean Common Market
EDF       - Export Development Fund Jamaica Ltd.
JECIC     - Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation
JNEC      - Jamaica National Export Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of Jamaica
Beneficiaries:    Manufacturers of non-traditional export goods and banana
exporters through the Export Development Fund (EDF),
the Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation (JECIC)
and the Jamaica National Export Corporation (JNEC).
Amount:            $37.0 million
Terms:             Payable in 17 years, including four years of grace at
9.6% interest.
Relending
Terms:             The Borrower would relend US$36 million to the EDF on
the same terms as those of the Bank loan plus a fee of
1% p.a. to cover the cross-currency exchange risk against
the US dollar. Interest rates on loans to exporters
having access to the EDF would initially be about 15%
with commercial banks assuming the credit risk and exporters
bearing the US dollar exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project would support the Government's program to
expand non-traditional manufactures and banana exports
by:
(i)   assuring a continued availability of foreign
exchange to meet current import requirements
of exporters;
(ii)  allowing a better utilization of the presently
installed manufacturing capacity;
(iii) complementing the export policies which the
Government intends to put in place; and
(iv)  strengthening the institutional framework
that provides support to exporters.
Up to $26.0 million of the loan funds would be used to
increase the resources available to EDF for short-term
financing or cash sale of foreign exchange for imports
required by exporters, of which $22.0 million would be
used for the importation of raw materials, intermediate
goods, packaging materials and spare parts by producers
of manufactured goods for export and local suppliers
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1ii -
to exporters, and $4.0 million for the importation of
current inputs by the Banana Company of Jamaica Ltd.
At least $10.0 million of loan funds would be made avail-
able to the EDF to provide medium-term financing to exporters
and their suppliers for the importation of capital equipment
required to utilize installed production capacity and
for limited inventories of imported inputs. One million
of loan funds would be used to provide technical assistance
to JNEC and JECIC to strengthen their capabilities to
provide assistance to manufacturers.
Risks:             The ability of the manufacturing sector to achieve signifi-
cant increases in export volumes particularly to non-
CARICOM markets will depend on the decisiveness with
which the Government moves to redress the imbalances
in incentives and protection which favour production
for the local market over production for export, and
on the willingness of the Government to maintain the
international competitiveness of Jamaican exports. The
Government has stated its intention to develop and implement
the necessary policy measures and has sought the Bank's
assistance in the preparation of an industrial reform
package. The Government also intends to maintain through
appropriate policies the international competitiveness
of Jamaican exports.
Estimated Cost    The proposed loan would finance:
and
Financing Plan:   (i)    about one-third of EDF's average resource require-
ments for its short term financing operations
with exporters of manufactured goods during 1981-
82, with most of the balance being financed by
roll-over of funds provided under loan 1715-JM;
(ii)   about half of the current import requirements
of the banana industry during 1981-82;
(iii)  about 25% of medium-term financing required by
exporters of manufactured goods during 1981-82
for capital equipment and permanent working capital
to utilize present capacity.
Estimated
Disbursements                                   $ million
Bank FY          82       83
Annual          22.5     14.5
Cumulative      22.5     37.0
Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   No. 3334-JM, dated April 8, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR THE SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a loan to
Jamaica for the equivalent of US$37.0 million for the Second Export Development
Fund project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years
of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An Economic Memorandum entitled "Jamaica's Short-Term Economic
Program" was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1980. An Economic
Mission visited Jamaica in March 1981 and is preparing its report. The
material below is based on the Mission's findings.
3.        After almost a decade of sustained economic decline, the Jamaican
economy appears to be ready to resume a normal pace of growth and develop-
ment. While the reasons for this decline were both economic as well as
political, a new government, elected in October 1980, is attempting to
reverse previous policies so as to bring the economy out of its long depression.
While it is yet too early to see statistical evidence to support this conclusion,
policies already implemented or currently under discussion provide indications
that a significant recovery is about to take place.
4.        The fact that Jamaica has experienced sustained economic decline
for nearly a decade is particularly striking as the country is endowed
with natural resources, has well-educated and skilled manpower, enjoys
the advantage of proximity to the lucrative North American markets, and
possesses a developed financial system. By the same token, however, its
advantages are also its disadvantages. The openness of the economy makes
it highly sensitive to international prices and demand changes; particularly,
given the lack of exploited energy resources, the economy is very vulner-
able to increases in the prices of oil, since imports of this fuel provide
for about 99% of Jamaica's energy consumption. Its labor and capital have
proved internationally mobile, and massive outflows of capital and emigration
of skilled labor have occurred. Recently, the larger burden of the external
debt at variable rates has also made the economy more vulnerable to increases
in interest rates in international capital markets. The careful management
of its resources in the face of these external pressures is the central
challenge to the new Government.
A. Jamaica in the 1970s
Output, Unemployment and Inflation
5.        Jamaica's per capita real GDP peaked in 1972.  It has decreased
every year thereafter and the accumulated decline reached 26% by 1980.
The performance of agriculture was uneven and, overall, showed no growth
between 1973 and 1980. The important, foreign exchange earning, mining



- 2 -
sector, that had led growth in the early 70s, experienced an accumulated
decline of 38% in 1975 and 1976, when the international mining companies
reacted to the bauxite levy introduced in 1974 by diversifying their operations
away from Jamaica, and by 1980, output levels were still 21% below the
1974 maximum. Manufacturing production declined every year except in 1975,
bringing the 1980 level 26% below the 1973 peak. Construction in 1980
was 55% below the 1973 level. The services-producing sectors, on the whole,
also tended to decline in spite of a substantial increase in Government
services; real value added by the conglomerate of services-producing sectors
was 12% lower in 1980 than in 1973.
6.        The decline in economic activity has intensified unemployment,
which rose from 22% in 1973 to 31% in 1979 and an estimated 35% in 1980.
Unemployment has been considerably more acute for certain social groups;
in 1978, for example, for youths aged 14 to 19 the unemployment rate was
58%, while the unemployment rate for women was 38%.
7.        Inflation rates rose sharply in the early 70's and then declined
during 1974-76.  In 1978, the December-to-December inflation rate jumped
to 50%, reflecting the impact of the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar
and the elimination of subsidies to certain consumption goods. In 1980
it was still above 30%.
Public Finances
8.        The financial performance of the Jamaican Central Government
has been weak during FY73/74 - FY80/81. The financial position of the
Central Government deteriorated sharply between FY73/74 and FY76/77 and
led to increased reliance on domestic financing, mostly from the banking
system. Large increases in expenditure--both current and capital--outpaced
the growth in revenue. As a result, the current account, which registered
a small surplus in FY73/74, deteriorated to a deficit of 6.1% of GDP in
FY76/77, and the overall deficit increased from 5.5% of GDP in FY73/74
to 19.3% of GDP in FY76/77. During FY77/78 and FY78/79 the Government
sought to correct the fiscal imbalance by introducing measures designed
to make the personal income tax more progressive, increasing consumption
and import taxes, and reinforcing expenditure controls. By FY78/79 the
fiscal current account deficit had decreased to 5.5% of GDP, and the overall
deficit to 14.8% of GDP.
9.        The original fiscal program for FY79/80 aimed at further improving
the performance of the Central Government. The current account was targeted
to register a small surplus. The overall deficit was targeted to decrease.
However, the fiscal situation deteriorated in that year. The current account
showed a deficit of 3.7% of GDP and the overall deficit increased to 16.9%
of GDP. Overall revenue fell short of the estimates, total expenditures
exceeded the estimates. Current expenditures exceeded the target level
by 8.7%; half of the current expenditure increase was related to increased
interest payments, but other half was mainly accounted by larger than antici-
pated wage increases and expenditures on goods and services, including
those made necessary by the flood damages. Capital expenditures exceeded
the estimates by 7%.
10.       Fiscal performance has deteriorated further in FY80/81 (fiscal
year ending March 31). Preliminary estimates indicate that although the
growth of current expenditures will be limited to 18%, revenues will grow



-3-
only 11% and the current account deficit of the Central Government will
increase to 5.1% of GDP against 3.7% in FY79/80. The overall deficit would
remain at about 15% of GDP.
External Sector
11.       During the 1973-1980 period Jamaica's balance of payments has
been under continuous pressure. Poor export performance, a sharply rising
oil bill, mounting debt service pressures, and net private capital outflows,
led to a precarious foreign exchange situation by 1976. In 1977 and 1978,
the stabilization program and the refinancing of commercial debt ameliorated
the situation, which continued to be serious. In 1979 and 1980 the balance
of payments position deteriorated even further.
12.       The current account of the balance of payments showed a substan-
tial deficit every year from 1973 to 1978. The deficit increased up to
1976, when it reached its maximum value, around US$300 million, or 11%
of GDP. In 1977 and 1978 the deficit was lower, around 3 to 4% of GDP.
The major export commodities experienced declines in volume. By 1976,
the export volume of bauxite and alumina--two commodities that in 1973
had accounted for about two-thirds of the value of exports--had dropped
nearly one-third below that year's level, primarily as a result of the
producing firms' reaction to the introduction of the bauxite levy. In
1977 and 1978 export volumes of bauxite and alumina recovered, but still
remained substantially below the 1973 levels. The volume of sugar exports--
a commodity that in 1973 accounted for 10% of the value of exports--
declined continuously, and in 1978 was one-fourth below the 1973 level.
The volume of banana exports only increased marginally. Imports rose rapidly
in 1974 and 1975, nearly doubling in value from their 1973 level. This
was partly due to the 1973-74 oil price increases which tripled Jamaica's
fuel bill to US$215 million by 1975. The implementation of increasingly
tight controls, made necessary by the acute foreign exchange shortage,
resulted in a sharp decline in imports after 1975. By 1978 the US$ value
of imports was nearly one-third below the level reached in 1975.
13.       In 1979 and 1980 the balance of payments continued to deteriorate.
In 1979 the deficit in the current account increased to US$171 milllion,
or 6.8% of GDP. Overall export performance was sluggish and the value
of commodity exports increased only 5%, reaching US$775 million. Only
nontraditional exports performed reasonably well and their value increased
17% to US$158 million. Commodity imports increased 16%, reaching US$1,003
million. The increment--about US$140 million--was approximately equal
to the increase in the fuels bill, that totalled US$335 million. Non-oil
imports remained stationary around US$670 million, thus experiencing a
decline in real terms. In 1980 the deficit in current account increased
to US$275 million, or 8.9% of GDP. The value of commodity exports increased
nearly 12%, reaching US$867 million. The increment in the proceeds from
bauxite and alumina (US$90 million) was roughly equal to the increment
in total commodity exports, and reflects, by and large, an increase in
alumina shipments of about 300,000 long tons. The volume of sugar exported
declined by about one-third, reflecting unfavorable weather conditions
that compounded the sector's structural problems. The volume of banana
exports fell more than 50%, reflecting the impact of Hurricane Allen that
aggravated the industry's problems. The value of other exports increased
10%. The value of commodity imports increased about 17%, reaching US$1170



- 4-
million. Imports of fuels, that increased by US$105 million, once again
accounted for most (63%) of this increase. Non-fuel imports increased
from US$670 million to US$730 million, or 9%.
14.       The large and sustained deficits in the current account of the
balance of payments have been partially offset by inflows of official capital.
As a result, Jamaica's external debt has increased from US$181 million
at the end of 1973, to an estimated 1,183 million at the end of 1979, of
which the Bank held 10.7%. Expressed as a ratio to GDP, the external debt
of Jamaica has increased from 9.5% in 1973, to 47% in 1979. The other
major source of financing has been the decrease in net international reserves;
at the end of 1973, these stood at US$37 million; by the end of 1980 they
had reached US$-590 million, including US$112 million of commercial arrears.
B. The Program
15.       In October 1980, a general election was held in Jamaica.  The
opposition Jamaica Labor Party obtained 52 of 60 seats in Parliament.
The new Government has negotiated an Extended Agreement with the International
Monetary Fund, which is scheduled to be considered by the Board of Directors
on April 13, 1981. This agreement focuses on the stabilization and recovery
of the Jamaican economy over the next three years. The new Government
has also begun to define its position with respect to longer term policy
issues; the dialogue with the Bank has been active and fruitful, but the
process will still take some time to be completed.
Overall Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives are to promote economic activity
and reduce the level of unemployment; also, to return existing utility
services and social and economic infrastructure to levels of efficiency
which will support economic growth. The strategy falls into two parts:
firstly, to put unutilized capacity to work with the emphasis on those
sectors that will produce quick and substantial incremental foreign exchange
earnings; secondly, to initiate adjustments in industrial and agricultural
policies and so provide a basis for expansion of productive capacity with
concomitant increases in employment opportunities.
17.       The Government anticipates that it will take at least three years
to get the Jamaican economy back on a path of self-sustaining growth. With
the plant and equipment now in place, real growth of 3% can be achieved
in 1981. For 1982 and 1983, the growth targets of 4% and 5%, respectively,
will require adequate incremental capital formation. The Government wishes
to make the private sector the main engine of growth, creating an environment
in which private initiative can prosper. Consequently, steps will be taken
to remove progressively all controls that inhibit such an environment.
The Government will promote private domestic and foreign investment. The
Government wishes to decrease the degree of state regulation of the economy
and to bring about the divestment of a number of companies that were once
private, but are today in the Government's hands. To this effect, the
Government has created a Divestment Committee that will seek the orderly
transfer to the private sector of a number of government-run operations.
Production and Investment
18.       The dominant task is the implementation of an export-oriented
production program to generate early incremental flows of foreign exchange.



-5-
Tourism can make a major contribution since this sector has substantial
underutilized capacity. In the first year of the program, hotel occupancy
is projected at 48% of capacity generating more than US$200 million. The
objective is to attain 70% occupancy by the third year, which should yield
US$375 million at today's prices.
19.       Agreements reached with the bauxite/alumina companies in 1980
have restored the competitiveness of that industry. Further, the Government
and the companies are pursuing, in cooperation with the appropriate US
agency, the acceptance of levy payments to Jamaica as a tax credit against
US income tax within double taxation arrangements. The companies are under-
taking upgrading programs for attaining rated capacity which will increase
the volume of production and export of bauxite/alumina by 10%. One company
is doubling plant capacity on a joint venture basis with the Government
of Jamaica and private Norwegian interests. In addition the Government
has initiated discussions with the companies to increase exports of bauxite
from existing mining operations by up to 6 million tons per annum during
the program period, and also to embark on a program for further expansion
of alumina capacity.
20.       The sugar industry has a potential market within the EEC regime
and an ISA quota of up to 255,000 tons, but current exports are only 160,000
tons. In the recent past cane cultivation was ravaged by smut and rust
disease, and in 1980 a program for replanting existing acreage with disease
resistant cane varieties was implemented. The objective is to lift the
production of sugar from 260,000 tons to 330,000 tons and exports to 230,000
in 1983.
21.       The already depressed banana industry was devastated by Hurricane
Allen in 1980. Programs for its rehabilitation supported by bilateral
and multilateral external financial sources are in place. There is a guaranteed
market of 150,000 tons in the United Kingdom, but in 1980 exports attained
only 33,000 tons, and the objective is to reach 120,000 tons in 1983.
The rehabilitation program includes the expansion of cultivation, the improvement
of yields, and the participation of the private sector, including foreign
investment.
22.       Exports of manufactured goods are already supported by World
Bank resources channeled through an Export Development Fund (EDF). During
the program period a basis will be provided for production expansion to
generate incremental employment opportunities and foreign exchange earnings.
The first step will be an examination and evaluation of Jamaica's industrial
and agricultural policies to identify desirable modifications and structural
adjustments which may be necessary to support efficient production and
provide incentives for investment.
23.       Private foreign investment flows, particularly on a joint venture
basis, will be an important factor in the economic recovery of Jamaica.
Already, steps have been taken to bring together groups of North American
businessmen to examine opportunities for foreign investment. The Government
plans to expand the Kingston Free Zone, and some 15 companies have expressed
interest in establishing new enterprises in lines such as textiles, electronics,
chemicals, warehousing, and food processing. Outside the Free Zone area,
about 70 investment enquiries are being processed, covering agriculture
and agrobusiness, manufacturing, mining, and tourism.



6
Fiscal Policy
24.       As part of its agreement with the IMF, the Government is committed
to prudent financial management, which will be geared to achieving surpluses
on current account for financing capital expenditure. The objective over
the program period is the continued reduction of Central Government overall
expenditures to a level of not more than 30% of GDP; a turnaround of current
account performance from a deficit of 5% of GDP to a surplus of at least
1% by FY83/84; and a narrowing of the overall deficit to around 10% of
GDP. The Government will implement, not later than October 1, 1981, aspects
of a comprehensive tax reform program to attain an increase of not less
than 1/2% of GDP on estimated tax revenues for FY81/82. With the prospective
increases in resources through fiscal measures and incremental Bauxite
Levy collections, the current account deficit estimated at 3-1/2% of GDP
for FY81/82 should improve to a surplus of not less than 1% of GDP by FY83/84.
The incremental receipts by FY83/84 are estimated at some J$475 million
(the equivalent of US$266 million) and would assist in offsetting the expected
decline over the period in emergency concessionary budgetary support from
donor countries and multilateral agencies.
25.       Special attention will be paid to public debt management.  The
existing stock of external commercial debt is to be refinanced and external
borrowing, other than on concessionary terms, will be limited to a reasonable
proportion of the financing program and related, by and large, to the external
costs of the public investment program.
26.       The level of government expenditure in FY81/82 will be held to
33% of GDP. On reasonable expectations about the revenue performance,
such an expenditure level would yield a current account deficit of 3-1/2%
of GDP. The overall cash deficit of the Central Government (excluding
debt amortization) in FY81/82 will, therefore, be held to J$945 million,
which would represent bout 13-1/2% of GDP. Compensation to employees
represented 76% of tax revenue in FY80/81, and 61% of current expenditure
excluding interest. Any policy for constraining consumption expenditure
must come to grips with this reality. The Government will however develop
a three-year pay plan aimed at moderation in civil service pay awards subject
to the need to attract and retain skilled personnel. For FY81/82 budget
resources for the pay plan will be limited to about J$65 million. In addition,
while the Government considers that a cutback of staff would be unaccept-
able with the existing level of unemployment, the number of employees at
March 31, 1981, will not be increased; subject to the maintenance of opera-
tional efficiency, existing vacancies and those arising from future resignations
and retirements will not be filled.
Monetary_Policy
27.       During the program period, monetary policy will be directed toward
!w:A1i:iJng savings and ensuring that sufficient bank credit is made available
to priority sectors. The Treasury Bill discount rate will be the prime
instrument for influencing changes in the interest rate structure. Domestic
bank credit requirements of the Government will be met substantially from
the issue of such bills, and their yield will be determined by market forces.
The bank rate will be set at a level not lower than the Treasury Bill rate.
In order that building societies can maintain their competitiveness in
attracting deposits with the minimum impact on their mortgage rates, the
current tax concessions to their depositors will be enhanced.



7-
Balance of Payments Policy
28.       The major obstacle to economic recovery is the acute shortage
of foreign exchange. In the early years of the program, balance of payments
support from external sources on a large scale will be needed. The Government
has approached donor countries and multilateral financial institutions
for special balance of payments assistance of a concessionary nature.
Foreign commercial banks are considering a deferral/refinancing of the
bulk of government and government-guaranteed debt to them maturing in FY81/82
and FY82/83, as well as the provision of incremental credits.
29.       An enduring solution to the foreign exchange shortage must rest
on a restoration of confidence in the economy and a quantum increase in
earnings from exports and tourism. The action program for export-oriented
production will provide rising foreign exchange earnings over the program
period, and thus reduce the reliance on emergency balance of payments assis-
tance. With the elimination of payments arrears, renewed confidence and
economic buoyancy, trade credits should be restored to normal levels and
assist in supporting the level of imports required for economic growth.
Direct foreign investment is to provide additional resources, given the
current arrangements for encouraging such flows and the interest already
shown by foreign investors.
30.       The Government considers Jamaica's exports to be competitive
at the present exchange rate and has therefore decided to maintain the
official exchange rate at its present level. The Government intends, however,
to review exchange rate policy and, if needed, take action, in case excessive
domestic price increases and a departure from wage mcderation would cause
an erosion of competitiveness.
Support of the International Monetary Fund
31.       The program described would be supported by resources to be provided
by the International Monetary Fund. The Agreement between the Government
of Jamaica and the International Monetary Fund envisages the purchase of
SDR 477.7 million (approximately US$584.8 million) under a new extended
arrangement, SDR 21.8 million (approximately US$26.7 million) corresponding
to the balance available in the first credit tranche, and SDR 37.0 milion
(approximately US$45.3 million) under the compensatory financing facility.
Total support from the IMF would total SDR 536.5 million (approximately
US$656.8 million).
32.       The performance criteria included in the negotiated agreement
between the IMF and the Government of Jamaica are: (i) a set of ceilings
on net domestic bank credit to the public sector (defined as the Central
Government, local government, and a specified group of public entities);
(ii) a set of ceilings on the net domestic assets of the Bank of Jamaica;
(iii) a set of balance of payments targets, framed in terms of changes
in the net international reserve position of the Bank of Jamaica (including
the external payments arrearage among its international liabilities); (iv)
a guideline for the portfolio management of the international assets and
liabilities of the Bank of Jamaica, embodied in a set of ceilings on its
gross international reserve holdings; (v) a limit on the contracting of
new external debt by the public sector and the Bank of Jamaica and by the
private sector covered by a Government guarantee, in a maturity range from
one year to twelve years, with a subceiling for the maturity range from
one year to five years; and (vi) an injunction against the introduction



day multiple currency practice, the imposition of any new or intensi-
fication of any existing restriction on payments and transfers for current
international transactions, and the introduction of any new or intensifi-
cation of any existing restriction on imports for balance of payments reasons.
Besides, the agreement contains provisions and review clauses in connection
with policies for FY82/83 and FY83/84.
Creditworthiness
33.       Jamaica's economy has been subject to nearly a decade of continuous
deterioration and decline. The new Government has defined a program to
interrupt these trends and initiate a process of economic recovery. To
this effect, a three-year agreement with the IMF has been negotiated.
The Government is also in the process of defining policies concerning public
investments and incentives for the private sector--in close consultation
with the Bank. On this basis, provided Jamaica successfully carries out
its economic stabilization and recovery program and continues to make progress
in defining a viable longer term economic program, it should be considered
creditworthy for external assistance, subject to continued close monitoring
of the application and the success of such policies.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
34.       The Bank has made 23 loans-I  in Jamaica totalling $285.7 million
after cancellations. Of this amount, $117.4 million (41%) has been for
infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water supply
and sewerage; the remainder has gone into agriculture and agroindustry
(14%); program lending (22%), education (8%), sites and services (5%),
forestry (4%), population and nutrition (3%), and small scale enterprises
(2%). The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of February 28, 1981 amounted
to $70.5 million. There have been three IFC investments in Jamaica; a
loan in 1961 to a pre-mix concrete company, an equity/loan investment in
1968 in a hotel project and a loan in 1980 to a glass container company.
35.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized infrastructure
investment. Although financing for this purpose continued, the emphasis
of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to the social
sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition, housing
and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In response to
changing economic forces, a further shift in Bank lending has taken place
in Jamaica for the late 1970s. The priority needs of this most recent
period have been the country's critical short- to medium-term balance of
payments and production requirements. Thus, the FY78 lending program contained
a $30 million program loan and an $18 million loan for the rehabilitation
of sugar factories. The FY79 forestry project and $30 million second program
loan are directed at similar needs. Other FY79 lending operations included
a fourth highway loan of $16.0 million and a small scale industry loan
of $7.0 million. No loans were made in FY80 due to the absence of a medium-
term economic program.
1/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone
Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 9 -
36.       Project implementation difficulties have been endemic to Bank
and other internationally financed projects. These difficulties have had
four principal causes; (i) shortage of key personnel; (ii) inadequacies
in the systems of management used in planning and controlling projects;
(iii) organizational and structural problems in the public sector; and
(iv) budgeting restraints resulting in shortages of local financing. The
difficult economic conditions of the last several years have affected and
intensified the problem in all four areas. The Government, the Bank and
the other international agencies are taking steps to deal with it in existing
projects and the design of new projects, but it is too early to assess
the impact of these steps.
37.       Future Bank lending to Jamaica is predicated on an acceptable
economic program, an export-oriented overall economic policy and a satisfac-
tory public sector investment program. The lending program for the next
three years emphasizes loans designed to contribute to a rapid improvement
in the balance of payments situation. Loans under preparation include
a loan to enable the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica to participate in
an offshore petroleum exploration program, a loan to expand the Kingston
Free Zone aimed at encouraging additional foreign investment for export
industries, and a loan for technical assistance. The Government has also
requested a structural adjustment loan to finance imports of necessary
inputs to expand industrial and agricultural production. Other projects
which have been identified for consideration in future years include two
projects in agriculture related to sugar and banana rehabilitation and
an export industries project to provide long-term credits for capital investment
by export industries.
38.       Coordination with other external lenders and assistance agencies
has been given particular attention in formulating the Bank's lending strategy.
The Bank has taken a lead role in an international aid effort for the Caribbean
called the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. The
Group has met annually in Washington since 1978. The Group has brought
together the donor agencies and countries for the Caribbean and the recipient
countries. Within the framework of the Group, individual country subgroup
meetings, similar to Bank consultative group meetings, have been held.
The subgroup meetings for Jamaica have provided an opportunity to present
a country project list and to coordinate assistance efforts. As a result
of the Caribbean Group and subgroup meetings, and of related donor activities,
Jamaica has received commitments, exclusive of Bank and IMF assistance,
for additional balance of payments and project local cost financing of
$225 million in FY81 from several bilateral donors. Local cost financing
provided in this manner financed the local cost requirements of several
Bank-assisted projects in FY80. The Caribbean Group has also provided
a basis for cofinancing foreign exchange costs with the OPEC Special Fund
in the Bank assisted Second Power Project. In addition to the close relationship
established with the IMF and the UNDP in dealing with Jamaican problems,
the Bank has worked intimately with other sponsoring agencies of the Caribbean
Group-- the Inter-American Development Bank and the Caribbean Development
Bank--as well as with bilateral aid agencies in several major donor countries.



- 10 -
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Growth and Structure
39.       Through 1976  the manufacturing sector grew more rapidly than the
overall economy and by that year reached 18.5% of GDP, compared to only 11.5%
in 1950. Following the sharp deterioration of the balance of payments in
1976, however, the sector was hampered by shortages of raw materials and spare
parts, reduced consumer demand caused by the general economic slowdown, and a
virtual halt of investment activity of the private sector. Sector output
declined at an average annual rate of 5.8% in real terms in the four years
through 1979, a much steeper decline than the 3.6% annual decrease in GDP. In
1979 , manufacturing contributed only 15.3% of GDP, and sector employment was
74,000 or 11% of the employed labor force, down from a high of 81,000 in 1974.
40.       The current structure of Jamaica's manufacturing sector and its
characteristics are the result of incentive and trade policies which, since
the introduction in 1956 of the Industrial Incentives Law, have been directed
at establishing and protecting domestic industry. The substantive elements of
the Incentives Law prevail to this day. They allow Jamaican manufacturers to
import capital goods, raw materials and intermediate goods without duty,
and further encourage the use of capital goods through generous tax write-offs
after a ten year income tax holiday. The manufacturer is further protected
by the exclusion of competing imports without the application of any meaningful
efficiency criteria, when there is sufficient installed capacity to supply the
domestic market. The current list of restricted imports includes 334 items,
of which 26 are raw materials and intermediate goods, 36 are capital goods,
and the balance consumer goods.
41.       The quantitative import restrictions have resulted in very high
effective levels of protection to domestic industry. Estimates developed in
1979 indicate that effective protection levels (excess of value added at
domestic prices, including the effect of protection on locally manufactured
inputs, over value added at world prices) average 68% for the sector as a
whole. Furthermore, firms exporting to CARICOM enjoy an effective level of
protection of, on average, 19%. In the presence of quantitative restrictions
tariffs have played a relatively small protectionist role. In the past,
tariffs in Jamaica have served primarily the revenue purpose. The overall
levels are rather moderate averaging only 22%, and in recent years their role
as a source of fiscal revenue has been significantly reduced. At present,
most manufacturing firms can import their inputs totally exempt of tariff
duties or any other tax.
42.       The industrialization policies and incentives have resulted in
significant distortions within the manufacturing sector. The system of
incentives encouraged the development of a mix of capital intensive industries,
and many so-called "screwdriver" industries performing final assembly or
processing operations with very low domestic value added. Paradoxically,
the policy of import substitution through the encouragement and protection of
domestic industry has resulted in the creation of a highly import dependent
manufacturing sector that is exacerbating, rather than helping Jamaica's
balance of payment's problem. By providing incentives in the form of duty-free



- 11 -
imports of intermediate goods, efforts to develop backward linkages where
comparative advantages might have existed, or developed, were effectively
discouraged. Currently, the direct import content of domestic manufacturers
is about 43% of sales. For that portion of production that is exported the
direct import content is 46%, and over 50% when indirect imports are included.
Because of the high cost structure of locally manufactured goods, products
with a relatively lower content of local inputs have been more able to compete
outside of Jamaica, and in particular outside of CARICOM.
43.       The high levels of effective protection of the manufacturing sector
also reflect high profit margins, inefficiencies, cost penalties associated with
small-scale production, and unutilized capacity. Despite the limited size of
the Jamaican market, the generous industrialization incentives encouraged
investments to manufacture the vast majority of finished goods consumed
locally. The resulting industrial base is fragmented into many small and
inefficient producers. In addition, the sector is operating at about 60% of
capacity on a one and a half shift basis due to the contraction of the local
market; the past inability of many firms to maintain or increase their export
markets because of the shortage of foreign exchange; and more recently their
inability to obtain foreign exchange to overhaul and modernize their capacity
which for many years was not properly maintained.
Exports
44.        In recent years exports of non-traditional manufactured goods 1/
have represented 10% to 12% of total Jamaican merchandise exports. Manufac-
tured goods exports increased from US$50 million in 1972 to US$73 million in
1976, or 10% yearly in nominal terms, but then remained stagnant through 1978.
The lack of growth between 1976 and 1978 was mainly due to the overvaluation
of the Jamaican dollar, the substantial increase in wages during the six years
prior to 1978, and the shortage of foreign exchange which made it difficult
for exporters to obtain necessary imported inputs. In 1979, however, manufac-
tured exports increased 32% to US$95 million mainly as a result of: (i) a
96% adjustment in the exchange rate between April 1977 and May 1979; (ii) the
decrease in real wages brought about by the Government's economic stabilization
program; (iii) the granting of some incentives to exporters, including priority
consideration in the issuance of import licenses to manufacturers that received
"Certified Exporter" status in early 1979; and (iv) the assurance of foreign
exchange availability for the import of inputs made possible by the Export
Development Fund (EDF), which was funded with the proceeds of Bank Loan
1715-JM approved by the Board on May 30, 1979. In 1980, export growth slowed
down to about 8-10% due to the further deterioration of the economic situation
and political climate. During the year manufacturers were plagued by shortage
of foreign exchange, labor strikes and disruptions in basic services such as
power and transportation.
1/   Excluding petroleum products, sugar and molasses, and alumina, all of
which are normally classed as manufactured.



- 12 -
45.       Between 1972 and 1978 there was a marked shift in the composition of
exporting firms and manufactured export goods. Beverages, tobacco products,
paper products, furniture, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, metal mechanics, and
mechanical and electrical equipment registered real growth, while textiles and
clothing suffered a substantial decline. The latter reflects the scope of
past exports incentives as well as the problems affecting the Jamaican
economy in the mid- and late 1970s. The Export Industry Encouragement Law of
1956, amended in 1960 and 1969, contained the same set of basic incentives as
the Industrial Incentives Law, but in addition provided exemptions from all
indirect taxes to firms exporting 100% of their production volume to non-CARICOM
markets. This resulted in the establishment of some 150 so-called "export
enclave" firms performing assembly operations mostly in the garments field.
Because of the wage increases and overvaluation of the currency, by 1978 only
30 of these firms remained. The most affected subsector was textiles and
clothing, which decreased from 21% (US$10.4 million) of total manufactured
exports in 1972 to only 6% (US$4.4 million) by 1978. In 1979, there was a
notable recovery of this subsector (to US$7.8 million) as those 100% export
firms that continued operating in Jamaica responded to the currency devaluation
and decrease in real wages.
46.       Until 1979, practically all increases in the volume of manufactured
exports were to the small but protected CARICOM market. Between 1972-1978
exports to CARICOM increased from US$17 million to US$39 million, while
exports to the rest of the world stagnated at US$33 million.  In 1979, exports
to CARICOM further increased to US$57 million, but exports to other markets
increased to US$38 million, exceeding for the first time in many years their
prior year's level in both current and real terms.  The growth of export
volume outside of CARICOM in 1979, was made possible by the increase in the
international competitiveness of Jamaican products, a growing awareness of the
Government and private sector about the need for developing new markets beyond
CARICOM, and the increased availability of foreign exchange provided by the
EDF to non-traditional exporters. The success of Jamaica's new export drive
will very much depend on the willingness and ability of both the Government
and the private sector to convert their newly acquired desire to export beyond
the small CARICOM market into policy measures and actions -- investments in
market development and eventually new plant and equipmen -- necessary to
make a higher volume of the new exports possible.
Prospects
47.       To achieve its economic development and growth plans the Government
has given high priority to increasing exports of manufactured goods, and to
development of deeper and wider linkages within the sector and with other
sectors to stimulate the economy and to reduce the import dependence of
manufacturing. In the short term -- two to three years -- if a continuous
and reliable source of foreign exchange is made available to exporters, which
is one of the main purposes of the proposed Bank loan, an annual export growth
near the 32% registered in 1979 can be sustained as exporters continue their
growth pattern in CARICOM, and as they make wider and deeper inroads into the
new markets beyond CARICOM which they began penetrating in 1979. With
renewed confidence in the Government and in the availability of an adequate
supply of foreign exchange, exporters are projecting substantial growth, to
US$160 million, for 1981.



- 13 -
48.        However, to achieve a sustained 25% to 35% yearly  growth beyond
1982, important changes to the industrial infrastructure and incentive systems
will be required. During the next two years it will be necessary to penetrate
new international markets outside of CARICOM, and to develop the marketing
know-how and managerial drive required for this purpose. This task will
require, among others: (i) policy adjustments to redress the imbalances
in incentives which favor production for the local market over exports to
international markets; (ii) expansion of the exportable product mix by better
identification of the country's comparative advantages; (iii) investment in
new plant and equipment for products with a comparative advantage, particularly
outside of CARICOM; (iv) expansion and training of the existing managerial
pool, particularly in the fields of export marketing, cost accounting and
industrial engineering; and (v) further reorientation of the private sector,
which to date has been accustomed to relatively well protected low volume and
high margin sales, to larger volume cost efficient production for the export
market.
49.        The new Government is keenly aware, as was the previous Government,
of the sectoral requirements for rapid short-term export gains and sustained
long-term export development. During the last three years the previous
Government took a number of substantive steps designed to support its export
promotion policy, and entered into a continuing dialogue with the private
sector to assure that new policies were compatible with the needs of exporters.
The most significant short-term steps taken were the adoption of realistic
exchange rate and wage policies. Also, the Jamaican National Export Corporation
(JNEC), which provides export marketing services to local firms in the private
sector, was restructured and substantially strengthened. A component of Bank
Loan 1715-JM, which helped create the EDF, contained funds that were utilized
to provide JNEC with technical assistance. Furthermore, the creation of the
Certified Exporter Status scheme and the EDF helped ease the foreign exchange
constraints that had been holding back export growth. The new Government and
the private sector consider the proposed additional funding of the EDF of
paramount importance to meet the short-term export targets of the sector and
to establish a base from which to continue working on the development of a
long-term export base.
50.       In conjunction with Loan 1715-JM the Government undertook to review
and to develop a program and schedule for making any necessary modifications
to the existing industrial development policies and administrative procedures.
The objective was to redress the imbalance in incentives offered producers
for the domestic market and those offered producers for export, and to
eliminate those incentives that favored capital intensity and kept adequate
backward linkages with the rest of the economy from developing. In November,
1979, preliminary proposals were completed and presented to the Bank for
review. These focused on short-term export incentives, and it was agreed
that more substantive proposals would be developed in early 1980. Soon
thereafter the Government discontinued negotiations with the IMF and called
for early elections in which an alternative economic program would be a major
issue. In the process the task force which had been reviewing industrial
incentives shifted its work towards the development of the alternative to the
IMF, and no further work was done on the program to modify existing industrial



- 14 -
policies. The new Government is aware that the achievement of its objectives
for increasing manufactured goods exports will depend on modifying industrial
policies and redressing the imbalance in incentives offered producers for the
domestic market and those offered producers for export. The action taken in
this area, however, cannot be precipitious. Manufacturers for the domestic
market are important employers of labor, and the current high unemployment
rate would make it difficult to take actions which would result in further
layoffs. The Government intends, however, to develop in consultation with the
Bank a program of industrial reforms and has begun to engage consultants to
assist in the preparation of a reform package. The initial expenses for
consulting services would be covered by technical assistance funds under
Loan 1715-JM. Additional funds required for studies and for assistance in
the implementation of a reform program would be made available under a techni-
cal assistance loan presently under consideration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The proposed project would be a follow-up to the ongoing Export
Development Fund Project. The main purpose of the EDF is to make available
foreign exchange for the import content of non-traditional exports. The
current resources of the EDF include US$30 million out of Bank Loan 1715-JM,
which have been fully disbursed, and US$7.5 million from an IDB loan approved
by that institution in November, 1979. The EDF also negotiated a US$5 million
overdraft facility with Royal Bank of Canada which has been used mainly for
bridge financing between EDF disbursement and Bank reimbursement. In 1980 the
EDF received US$69.6 million in applications for preliminary commitments of
which eventually US$49.6 million were approved, equivalent to the financing
capacity of the EDF on the assumption that its resources would turn around
every nine months 1/. Through December 31, 1980, US$45.2 million (including
a US$5.5 million carry over from 1979) of preliminary commitments had been
converted into final commitments, which are firm purchase orders placed by
exporters with their suppliers. As of that date cumulative disbursements by
the EDF stood at $25.1 million and repayments at $10.6 million. Through
December 1980, a total of 80 exporters, accounting for about 75% of non-
traditional exports in 1979, had made use of EDF resources.
52.        To support projected export levels of manufactured goods of US$160
million in 1981 and US$208 million in 1982, it is estimated that demand for
EDF resources could reach as much as US$80 million in 1981 and US$104 million
in 1982. Because there is normally a lag of about four months between the
time an import order is placed and payment for it is made, and the EDF's
resources turn around about 1.5 times a year, it is estimated that the EDF
would require about US$46.6 million in 1981 and US$66.0 million in 1982,
including a two week cash reserve, to meet the projected demand for current
imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, packaging materials and spare
parts from exporters of manufactured goods. This compares to about US$40.8
million and US$43.8 million that would be available to the EDF in 1981 and
1982, respectively, from its current borrowings and retained earnings. In
1/   In practice the EDF is being repaid in about 8 months so that in
restrospect it would have been possible to support during 1980 a demand
of US$56.3 million.



- 15 -
November 1980, the Government made a request to the Bank for a loan to
increase the resources of the EDF for its current operations, and, also, to
finance the replacement of outworn or obsolete capital equipment and some
working capital for export industries, and part of the imported inputs required
by banana exporters to reverse declining production trends. The proposed
project is based on the findings of successive Bank missions that supervised
the establishment and initial operations of the EDF, and an appraisal mission
which visited Jamaica in November 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington
on March 30, 1981. The Jamaican delegation was led by Mrs. O'Reggio of the
Ministry of Finance. Representatives of the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ), Export
Development Fund (EDF), Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporaton (JECIC),
and the Banana Company Ltd. (BCJ) also attended.
Loan Amount and Objectives
53.       A loan of US$37 million equivalent is proposed.  Twenty-six million
would be used to increase the resources of the EDF for its current short-term
operations in support of imports required by exporters; $22 million of this
component would be used for imports of raw materials, intermediate goods,
packaging materials and spare parts by producers of manufactured goods for
export and local suppliers to exporters, and $4 million would be used for
imports of recurrent inputs required for the cultivation, harvesting, handling
and packaging of bananas for export. Ten million would be used to open a new
EDF window for medium-term financing of permanent working capital and equipment.
The remaining one million would be for technical assistance to further streng-
then the institutional and delivery capabilities of Government agencies
responsible for providing exporters with marketing, financial, production, and
other technical and administrative support.
54.       The project would be expected to support the current export drive
and long-term development of the country's non-traditional exports by:
assuring a continued availability of foreign exchange to meet the import
requirements of non-traditional manufactures exporters; allowing a better
utilization of the presently installed manufacturing capacity; complementing
the export development policies that the new Government intends to put in
place; helping rehabilitate the banana industry; and strengthening the
institutional infrastructure that provides support to exporters, including
assistance to small scale enterprises to find access to export markets. The
foreign exchange shortages of the last several years resulted in periods when
not even assurances could be given by the Government as to when foreign
exchange might be made available to exporters. Under these circumstances
exporters could not prepare and execute long-term production, investment and
export plans. The growth of non-traditional exports and the needed recovery of
banana production was thus limited by the scarcity of foreign exchange. The
assurance of foreign exchange availability that the EDF provides has ameliorated
some of these problems and should help overcome them entirely with the addi-
tional funding.
55.       As indicated above, the project would also help realize the consid-
erable potential for a quick recovery of banana exports and assist the Govern-
ment's strategy for economic recovery through export growth and strengthening
of the country's external position. After having reached a peak of 200,000
tons in 1966, the volume of banana exports steadily declined to about 70,000



- 16 -
tons by 1974. During 1974-79 exports fluctuated between 65,000-75,000 tons
p.a. but in 1980 they declined further by more than 50 percent, mostly as a
result of hurricane Allen, which hit the island with devastating effect in
August 1980. Present export levels are far below Jamaica's quota of 150,000
tons p.a. in the protected UK market and failure to expand banana exports
quickly may well lead to a reduction of this quota. The lack of foreign
exchange for crucial imported inputs is the main factor now limiting the
recovery of banana production and exports. Emergency relief provided by
bilateral donors after hurricane Allen is being used to finance the fertilizer
requirements of the banana industry. With the loan funds allocated for
imported inputs for the banana industry, the EDF would initially finance
mainly other current inputs required for cultivation, harvesting, handling and
packaging. As a result of the availability of foreign exchange, the volume of
banana exports could be tripled from their 1980 level of only 31,000 tons in
about 3 or 4 years and foreign exchange earnings increased from about US$11
million in 1980 to about US$40 million by 1983-84. Since nearly two-thirds of
total acreage is cultivated by 25,000 small farmers on lots of 5 acres or less,
the recovery of the industry would have significant positive social effects in
addition to its impact on output and the balance of payments.
Project Description
56.        The proposed US$37 million loan would be made to the Government of
Jamaica for 17 years, including four years of grace, at a 9.6% p.a. interest
rate. The Government would onlend $36 million in US dollars to the EDF
on the same terms as those of the proposed Bank loan plus a 1% p.a. fee to
cover the cross-currency exchange risk against the US dollar. The signing of
a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of Loan Agreement). The Government would
ensure that the EDF will be maintained for at least six years or for such
other period as the Government and the Bank shall agree (Section 3.03 of Loan
Agreement). The Government has further agreed that if at any time during
the next six years it shall become apparent that the financial and foreign
exchange needs of non-traditional exporters of manufactured goods, or the
foreign exchange situation of the country, have changed sufficiently to
require modifications to the purpose for which funds were originally made
available to the EDF, such modifications would be made consistent with the
objective of promoting Jamaica's exports in ways acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.03 of Loan Agreement).
57.        Short-Term Import Operations.  The EDF would continue its current
and very successful program of short-term import operations with borrowed
resources increased to US$63.5 million. Exporters who are net earners of
foreign exchange would receive financing for all their imports; other exporters
and local suppliers to exporters would receive financing for the direct import
content of exports or of local sales to exporters. All imports for banana pro-
duction would be handled by BCJ, a public company, which would sell these
imports to private producers of banana for exports, unless they are to
be used by BCJ for the marketing of bananas for export. BCJ would be subject
to the same terms, conditions and procedures that apply to any other eligible
EDF user under the short-term import operations component of the proposed
loan. Loans denominated in Jamaican dollars indexed to the US dollar would be
made by commercial banks to eligible EDF users and discounted by the EDF with



- 17 -
full recourse to the commercial bank. Repayment would be in the currency
earned from export sales, except that local suppliers would repay in Jamaican
dollars indexed to the US dollar. Thus, commercial banks would assume the
credit risk and borrowers the US dollar exchange risk, while the EDF would
discount the loans and guarantee their convertibility into US dollars.
58.       The only substantive change to the existing policies and proce-
dures would be to allow exporters the option of buying US dollars from the EDF
instead of being limited, as they now are, to obtaining their foreign exchange
needs through the above financing scheme. Under said option exporters would
undertake to sell back to the EDF from their export earnings sufficient
currencies to cover both the amount of US dollars they originally purchased
and the interest earned by the EDF while holding the equivalent Jamaican
currency. Following standard practice for the handling of foreign exchange
under Jamaica's exchange control laws, all cash transactions of the EDF would
be handled through exporters' commercial banks. This new cash option has been
included to avoid displacing normal credit operations of commercial banks with
excess liquidity, and to avoid penalizing exporters who need the foreign
exchange provided by the EDF, but who have a strong cash position in domestic
currency and do not need any further credit. In order to enable EDF to commence
operations under the cash option, amendments to EDF policies and procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be approved by the EDF's Board by no later
than July 31, 1981 (Section 2.10 of Project Agreement).
59.       Use of EDF foreign exchange would be limited to the import of raw
materials, intermediate goods, packaging materials and spare parts entering
into the manufacture of non-traditional exports, including the processing and
packaging of agricultural products. For banana production use of EDF re-
sources would be limited to the import of fertilizers, insecticides and
other recurrent inputs required for cultivation, and of materials used for
harvesting, handling and packaging.  Only exporters with an established record
of performance, or a credible plan for future performance, would be eligible
to use EDF resources. Export performance would be monitored by the Jamaica
Export Credit Insurance Corp. (JECIC), administrator of the EDF, who would
prepare quarterly reports of substance and in form acceptable to the Bank
(Section 2.06(c) of Project Agreement). BCJ would only be eligible to start
using EDF resources after it has provided the Bank and the EDF with satis-
factory assurances regarding its participation in the Project (Schedule 1
to Loan Agreement). BCJ's eligibility to use EDF resources beyond June 30,
1982 would moreover be subject to a review by JECIC and the Bank of the export
performance and foreign exchange needs and availability of the banana industry
(Section 2.14 of Project Agreement).
60.       Terms of the financing or US dollar sales would be for the export
cycle (from the time at which the EDF would provide the foreign exchange for
payment to overseas suppliers to the time at which the exporters receive pay-
ments for their export sales), or 365 days, whichever is shorter. In the case
of local suppliers, terms of the financing or US dollar sales would extend to
the time of delivery of the financed goods to the exporter. Limits on the
use of EDF resources and the export cycle would be determined by JECIC.
Interest rates to exporters that choose to use the financing option would be
based on the EDF's discount rate, currently 11%, plus a 1% administration fee
for JECIC, and a 3% spread for the commercial banks. The discount rate would



- 18 -
be reviewed every three months and would be adjusted in consultation with the
Bank if warranted by conditions in international money markets (Section
2.04(c) of Project Agreement).
61.       Permanent Working Capital and Equipment.  During appraisal of the
proposed loan it was determined that to be able to fully utilize their currently
installed manufacturing capacity, many exporters would have to overhaul their
existing capacity to break bottlenecks, improve efficiency, or meet changing
product quality standards in international markets. In addition, many exporters
would require longer term financing than that available under the short-term
window of the EDF to allow them to carry larger inventories of raw materials
intermediate goods, packaging materials and spare parts with which to support
the new levels of export sales they expect to reach with their currently
unutilized capacity. The US$10 million component to meet the above require-
ments would flow through a special account of the EDF that would be established
for the purpose, and would cover about 25% of the medium-term financing re-
quirements of exporters during 1981-82 for equipment and permanent working
capital to utilize present capacity.
62.       Since no new productive capacity would be involved it would be
difficult to calculate meaningful financial and economic rates of return; and
since established creditworthy clients would be using subloan funds to expand
existing export volumes, the inefficient use of funds in ill-conceived projects
is extremely unlikely. A simple analysis would therefore be made of each
financing request which would assure that, as a minimum, the borrower is
a qualified user of the EDF; the equipment is for installation in an existing
production process at its existing location and does not form part of a
project to increase capacity; a reasonable proportion of the output from the
production process using the equipment has been or will be exported or sold
to exporters; and the amounts of permanent working capital financing do not
exceed three months of the manufacturers' incremental projected export sales
or sales to exporters, for the following year (Schedule B to Project Agreement).
63.       Financing would be provided through the same mechanism as under the
short-term financing operations option of the EDF, except that instead of
the terms being linked to the export cycle, loans made by commercial banks
would be for up to four years including up to one year of grace (Schedule E to
Project Agreement). Repayments of principal and interest of the US dollar
indexed notes would be made in Jamaican currency, to be exchanged by BOJ for
US dollars (para 64 below). Rollover funds would be used for the same purposes
as those of the proposed project (Schedule B to Project Agreement). Interest
rates would initially be the same as those for short-term financing operations,
but would be reviewed every three months and be adjusted in consultation with
the Bank if warranted by conditions in international capital markets (Section
2.04(c) of Project Agreement). A policy statement for medium-term financing
acceptable to the Bank which would incorporate the eligibility and analysis
criteria and policies and procedures, would be approved by EDF's Board by no
later than July 31, 1981 (Section 2.11 of Project Agreement). Disbursements
of the medium-term financing component of the proposed loan would be condi-
tional upon this approval (Schedule 1 to Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
64.        To maintain the foreign exchange integrity of the EDF, the Bank of
Jamaica (BOJ) would continue to replenish the EDF with US$ whenever: (i) the
export cycle exceeds 365 days at which time the BOJ would take over the debt
instrument or Jamaican currency held by the EDF, except that for the medium-
term operations, the 365 days limit would not apply; (ii) a firm fails to
export or defaults on its subloan in which case the BOJ would exchange the
local currency then held by the EDF, or deposited with the EDF by the commer-
cial bank; and (iii) soft currencies are earned from export sales (Section
4.02 of Project Agreement). In the case of medium-term operations, BOJ
would convert payments to US dollars upon receipt of the Jamaican currency
equivalent from the EDF (Section 4.01(d) of Project Agreement).  In the case
of local suppliers to exporters, whose obligations are repaid in Jamaican
currency, the BOJ would continue converting all such currency to US dollars 90
days after it is received by the EDF (Section 4.01(c) of Project Agreement).
65.        In order to ensure that the EDF and its users will not be negatively
affected by any changes in the foreign exchange laws and regulations, the
Government and the BOJ would not deny EDF users benefits that may be granted
to other exporters as a result of any change in foreign exchange laws and
regulations unless such denial would not affect their international competi-
tiveness (Section 3.05 of Loan Agreement and 4.03 of Project Agreement).
66.        Import Licensing.  Under Loan 1715-JM the Government undertook
to assure that persons and entities granted access to the EDF would be promptly
granted import licenses for goods financed by the EDF. Although substantive
improvements have been observed in the licensing procedure during the past
eighteen months, exporters inform and Government officials confirm that some
elements of the procedures still remain which create unnecessary paperwork
and delays, and which result in some uncertainty and lack of continuity to
exporters' import, manufacturing and export programming activities. The
Government has agreed to simplify the import license application requirements
for EDF users by no later than July 31, 1981 and to ensure that licenses are
granted promptly upon the approval of the application for resources from the
EDF (Section 3.02 of Project Agreement). The Government also intends to
simplify the licensing requirements and procedures of its Trade Adminis-
trator's Department for all importers and to adopt within the next few months,
in consultation with the Bank, a time-phased simplification program.
67.        Industrial Reform.  The Government of Jamaica recognizes the
urgency of industrial reform and has, as noted in para 50 above, begun to
engage consultants to assist in the preparation of a reform package. The
Government has agreed to submit to the Bank the results of a study of
required industrial reforms to be undertaken shortly by those consultants
and to consult with the Bank by no later than July 31, 1981 on a specific
program of action (Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement). It is envisaged that
the composition of such program and a timetable for its adoption and imple-
mentation would be determined on the basis of these consultations, and
that, as required, consultants would be engaged to help implement the
program and carry out additional studies that may be necessary.



- 20 -
Administration of the Project
68.       The Export Development Fund.  The EDF was established on May 9,
1979, as a subsidiary of the Bank of Jamaica and begun operations in Sep-
tember, 1979. It has a nine member Board of Directors, including represen-
tatives of the BOJ, the ministries of Finance, of Industry, and of Foreign
Affairs and Trade, and of the private manufacturing and commercial banking
sectors. The EDF's operating policies, which were developed in conjunction
with Loan 1715-JM and form part of that loan agreement, would continue to
govern the operations of the EDF under the proposed loan, but would be amended
to cover the new US dollar sales feature of short-term import operations, and
lending for permanent working capital and equipment. Having no staff of its
own, the EDF is administered by the Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation,
also a subsidiary of the Bank of Jamaica.
69.       The Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation.  JECIC has consid-
erable experience in import and export financing operations. In addition to
its normal export insurance operations, JECIC administers three relatively
small local currency pre- and post-shipment financing funds, and ten supplier
lines of credit from seven countries. Including all disbursed and undisbursed
funds from the supplier lines of credit and the loans to the EDF, in August,
1980, JECIC was managing resources totalling about US$121 million in various
currencies. JECIC's organization includes a Managing Director, a Deputy
Managing Director responsible solely for EDF operations, and five section
chiefs, two of which deal only with the EDF. Total staff numbers 55 and
includes 39 professionals of which 16 are assigned full-time to EDF operations.
70.       In the two years since the EDF was established, JECIC has matured
substantially. With the assistance of consulting services and an interna-
tionally recruited expert, both financed out of the proceeds of Loan 1715-JM,
it has restructured its organization, responsibilities and workloads, updated
most of its policies, procedures and operating manuals, and undertaken consid-
erable training activities. JECIC's institution building activities are still
in progress, and the proposed Bank loan includes US$300,000 for technical
assistance that would cover: further training; acquisition of an electronic
data processing system for its accounting function and that of the EDF's
operations; and development and implementation of a management control infor-
mation and performance evaluation system. Establishment of these systems
would be completed by September 30, 1981 (Section 2.13 of Project Agreement).
In order to improve communications with and be more responsive to the
needs of the private export sector, JECIC and EDF would, by no later than
July 31, 1981 create a Technical Committee to be composed of key managers of
JECIC and representatives of the private manufacturing and commercial banking
sectors (Section 2.12 of Project Agreement).
71.       The Jamaica National Export Corporation.  JNEC was created in 1969
under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Its basic objective is
to promote exports, which, during its early years, it did mostly through trade
fairs and missions, and by collecting and supplying to exporters basic trade
information. In 1977 JNEC's activities were expanded to help implement
Government policies designed to result in export led economic growth. As a
consequence, JNEC became involved in assisting exporters with overseas market
research, product development, quality control, production and shipping, and
placed greater emphasis on exporter training activities.



- 21 -
72.       To handle more effectively its wider scope of activities, in 1979
JNEC commissioned an extensive study to determine more clearly the needs
of exporters and the best methods of delivering the assistance they require;
and, in this context, to review JNEC's own operations, establish priorities
for its activities, and strengthen its organizational structure, personnel and
procedures. The study and the subsequent implementation of its recommendations
were and continue to be financed from the proceeds of Bank Loan 1715-JM.
Funds from Bank loan 1715-JM are also being utilized by JNEC to help strengthen
the quality control capabilities of exporters, particularly exporters of fresh
and processed foods and of furniture; and to finance comprehensive research
of fresh and processed foods markets in selected cities overseas. It is
expected that the market research will help exporters identify more clearly
the characteristics of fresh and processed foods most in demand, their required
qualities and packaging, and the prevailing systems of distribution, and that
it will open direct lines of communication between Jamaican exporters and
potential foreign buyers. The proposed Bank loan includes US$700,000 for
technical assistance to JNEC. The additional technical assistance funds would
be used to: (i) continue the programs initiated with funds from'Loan 1715-JM;
and (ii) help implement the recommendations, as they evolve, of the market
research currently underway, and, tentatively and subject to ongoing detailed
review by Bank staff, to expand that research to other markets and subsectors
such as furniture, garments, or crafts, and to help implement the recommenda-
tions that would evolve from the additional research.
Additional Overseas Commercial Credit
73.       Because of Jamaica's very tight foreign exchange situation, during
the last four years suppliers' open account, and sight drafts and other
acceptances, which at one time provided as much as 85% of all import financing
and were normally for terms ranging from 90 to 180 days, were replaced by
commercial banks' letters of credit wherein the commercial bank assumed the
foreign exchange obligation to the overseas supplier. However, because
Jamaica's foreign exchange situation deteriorated and commercial banks had
difficulties in obtaining cover from the Bank of Jamaica, they limited the
amount of letter of credit operations and reduced their terms to 30 to 90
days. At the time of its creation, the strong financial position of the EDF
coupled with the provisions for its replenishment through hard currency
repayments and its conservative but effective management, made it possible for
the EDF to de-facto guarantee the cover of letters of credit and other supplier
import financing extended to EDF users. Thus, when the EDF initiated opera-
tions many exporters were able to negotiate better terms from suppliers or
other sources of overseas credit, and foreign commercial banks operating in
Jamaica were observed to increase their letter of credit exposure and terms
with the only proviso that the additional financing thus made available be
used by qualified EDF users, and be supported by EDF commitments to provide
the required foreign exchange.
74.       The new resources of the proposed loan should further strengthen
the EDF's guaranteed cover feature. To the extent that this feature would
allow exporters to negotiate better terms abroad, the availability of foreign
exchange to the sector would be expanded and the EDF's resources could be
utilized to support a larger volume of imports. If the EDF is very successful
in assisting exporters to generate additional overseas financing with improved
terms, the disbursement of the short-term import operations component of the
proposed loan might take some more time than currently envisaged.



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       Procurement would be made by firms using normal commercial practice
from the Bank's member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan. Since procurement
for imports to be made with EDF resources would depend on the decision of many
enterprises for a large number of items, international competitive bidding
would not be practicable. Procurement of individual contracts costing the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more would, however, have to be supported by an
explanation of the procurement process and decision, including evidence that
the purchasers had sought price quotations from competitive sources.
76.       Disbursements for short-term supported imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods, packaging materials and spare parts would be made against
statements of expenditure certified by JECIC. The detailed documentation
evidencing the final expenditure would be retained by JECIC and be available
for inspection by the Bank in the course of project supervision. Statements
of expenditures would also be audited annually in the course of the external
audit of the EDF (Section 5.02 of Project Agreement). BCJ would, moreover,
provide the Bank with quarterly reports on its sale and own use of the imported
inputs. Disbursement procedures for permanent working capital and equipment
financing would be the same as under standard DFC operations, with a free
limit of US$250,000 for subloans from this component. JECIC would certify
that it has not claimed financing from any other source for imports for which
it claims disbursement under the proposed loan. All technical assistance
expenditures would require prior Bank approval, for which purpose the parti-
cipating institutions would periodically present discrete programs or projects
for approval by the Bank. In the light of the present import requirements for
export and the EDF's current resources and taking into account the period to
be covered by the technical assistance component, it is expected that the
proposed loan would be disbursed within no more than two years after loan
signing.
Benefits and Risks
77.       By enabling exporters to obtain their import requirements the
proposed loan would help increase non-traditional manufactured exports from
USS105 million in 1980 to about US$350 million in 1984 and banana exports from
US$11 million in 1980 to about US$40 million by 1983-84; would allow improved
utilization of existing manufacturing capacity; would generate new employment
opportunities in the manufacturing sector and the banana industry; and would
improve incomes of banana farmers. The proposed loan would, in addition,
further strengthen the EDF which has been and will continue to be for some
time a focal point of the Government program to increase non-traditional
exports; and would provide important technical assistance for institutions
serving manufacturers of exports, including small scale enterprises which
without such assistance would find access to export markets prohibitively
expensive.
78.       The ability of the sector to increase its export volumes, particu-
larly to non-CARICOM markets, will depend on producing acceptable products at
competitive prices and then being able to market them. This ability, and
particularly the willingness to develop it, will in turn depend on the
decisiveness with which the Government moves to redress the imbalance in
incentives and protection which favor production for the local market over
production for export. The Government is aware of the need to develop



- 23 -
and implement policy measures to make export production at least as profitable
as production for the local market and has requested the Bank to assist in the
formulation of a reform package. Finally, success beyond current expectations
by the EDF in inducing larger amounts of supplier and other overseas credit
for its clients, might allow the EDF to operate with a lower level of resources
for its short-term operations than those projected for the proposed loan. In
that event, funds of the proposed loan would be reallocated to the permanent
working capital and equipment component of the proposed project which is
expected to cover only part of the requirements for those purposes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.        The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank of Jamaica, the Export Development Fund,
the Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation, the Jamaica National Export
Corporation and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Annex III, Section
III. A special condition of effectiveness is the signing of a satisfactory
subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and the EDF. Special conditions
of disbursements are: (a) that no disbursements for the medium term financing
component will be made before EDF's Board has approved a policy statement for
medium term financing acceptable to the Bank; and (b) that no disbursements
for the short-term financing component for the banana industry will be made
before the Banana Company Ltd. has provided the Bank and EDF with satisfactory
assurances with respect to its participation in the Project.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
April 9, 1981



- 24 -                                                  ANEXI
Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA - bOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (IIEICGTED AVE4RES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM. )                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'E
TOTAL              11. 0
AGRICULTURAL        4. 8                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CA8IBBFAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   470.0        830.0    1240.0                 1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      426.0       1325.0    1823.0                 1055.9                     1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (HILLIONS)        1.6          1.9       2. 1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.0           41.4      48.2                   63.4                      53.9
POPULATIOII PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EKM.                       145.0       173.0      191.0                  26. 1                      77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    327.0         392.0      438.0                  81.7                      129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           41. 7       45.9       42.7                  41.4                       30.6
15-64 IRS.                           54.0        48.5       51.4                  54.7                       61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     4.3          5.6       5.9                   3.9                        8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.5/c        1.4/c     1.7/c                 2.7                        1.6
URBAN                                3.8          3.5       3.8                   4,1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       39.0        35.0       29.0                  34.8                       22.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0          8.0       6.0                   8.9                        8. 
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4          2. 7      2.2                    2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         19.3      27.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
FER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            98.0        99.0       95.0                 106.9                      113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0        111.0      119.0                 107.4                      125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            56.0        67.0       70. 0                 65.6                       91. 0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0        33.0       35.0                  33.7                       39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        7.0          4.0       3.0                    8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.0           67.8      70.0                  63.1                       67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             63.0        36.0       20.0                  66.5                       55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        62.0       86.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ,,        100.0      100.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..         48.0       79.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        94.0       94.0                  62.3
URBAN                                          100.0      100.0                  79.4
RURAL                                 ..        92.0       91.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2600.0      2630.0    3523.0                 1849.2                     1030. 1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       1990.0/d    1710.0      547.0                1227.5                      929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              241. OJd    243.0      263.0                 46P. 3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..       19.0                    ..                       17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.9         4.3
URBAN                                2. 7         ..
RURAL                                4. 8         ..
AVERAGE NHMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                1.9         1. 6
URBAN                                1.6          ..
RURAL                                2.0          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         27.0
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 25-                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAEaS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTDIATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CAPIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL14ENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                 92.0        118.0       97.0                  99.7                    105.9
MALE                  92.0        118.0      96.0                 101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                93.0       118.0       98.0                  99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 45.0         45.0       58.0                  34.4                     64.0
MALE                  44.0        45.0       54.0                  33.5                      71. 1
FEMALE                46.0        45.0       62.0                  34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   9.0           5.5        4.0                  38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            55.0         47.0       39.0                  30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                          21.0         26.0       28.0                  14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         82.0        85.4       86.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         20.0         39.0       45.0                  43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         90.0        266.0     270.0                  245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7. 0       37. 0      54.0                  84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   63.0       114.0       90.0                  63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        0.2                    ..                      5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TMOUSANDS)       606.9        631.5      714.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.2         39.0      39.2                   22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              39.0         29.0       28.0                  37.1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 25.0         26.0       17.0                  23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 37.3        33.8       33.1                  31.5                     40.9
MALE                                  48.8        42.3       41.2                  48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                                26.7        25.7       25.2                  14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2         1.5        1.4                   1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.2/.
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. 2/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.2/e
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      501.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      439.0                 190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 * -                 585.0                 474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      509.0                 332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..       80.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d 1963;  /e 1958.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 26 -                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEPINITIlf9S OF SOCIAL EIIILATOCRS
Nones:  Although the data  ton  deco  fro  sources g-tray judged the most suthort.t-o and rlo                   ie It ahoud alum he noted that they map  oth he inter-
natIonaly      ....perahl  henus  ofteho.feadrdeddfeaosad --nopte umed by diff-reet.. countrIeleclctn   the dens.  The Aeea ate, eune-
theleo,umflode_cih  oder  of ngnnude Iridloane  -reda, and oh-erateri- certeh  na-o fdffereon ete_I
The ecte-esue groupe are (1) theon m, coutrgou  of theal.   jes otvAnd  IIco2                     nr    -roc  club sene..ht htgher iveage        ..ou  than nhe county grump
of,he  uhj cot noustry (conct fur "CapItol lurla OIl  loore"gru    hr  "tdl    o Ne toth Aft ba und Middle tact  is uh-e  bena...e tf etesg-e
coouo-omtural ciiultloo .    the ref--nn   groP data the avoregee are popolanlo. weighted  an ' :n teicie.... for can  hedioero  end  h-ess only dee at
leacth haf of the.. tcsoics in a group baa data for thot loi_ontor.   tiene the" recge. of ...enteI aun  the indi-t_r  depends us the availobility of
dat  au  i  no  unfoes,caulo  mass hmeueoohised In reasi   or-ag           I ofteOdnsrs   nte,to                 e ....gsrool  uo.lI  nua tagsh  vlu
of one indtcutor oneIme umoeg- the  -cutry and refereno  groapa..                                                                       ly..E1i -PIgh
LAND1 ARlEd (thousan.d seus)-oclto  per flystico- fopuhahion dhvi10d If number 00 peenthaing ply-
Totul - To nul curfunc ut-o-omynteg lard area end iInn- ines                                  sirlene qualifed froma mdicol a-h-o  at aniters ity level
Agricultural - Estimate of  grho-lt-rn   urea used somporcelly orpermanently                FPocaltiem Per Niaaug Person -  .PoputnuedIvided hy nube  of pea_iuiag
for -rop., pasture, market end kitthc garda-  or no lie fallow; 1977 data,                 male ond fem..lo graduate  uee.        ruia  euree., a.od sealect  ect es
Peuaio Ie Monia  Bed - totualuIc.  cud  ues  - Pepolaniem (5usd1,
GNP PEP CAPITA (till - ElG yn  cyo  esteatn ncrrn   akt PIlres, no-                             o    ,en   url   divdd hy thej   cepeotive nuber of hospital bode
nalated ho . mam   orrro  meoho  us World lakAna    17779 hosts: i960,                        a-ilable to pablio end privat  general1 and                   h'na .c hopital endte
1970, an.d  1979 data.                                                                        hebhlitatiostctc         H..fopituls aIre.ctebliebmeut  pe-ately staffed
ENERG  CONS"TIONPFR CPITA   AA .. I   I.-pl- of  rti.1... Iy 1          hp 0t0leas1t one phychiaic.  Emtablihi ..tmet  providing prtneipahly xtutdie
flEsh   ClgiteEf15  I CAPITAe-   --lnol  ueopeuno  cn         trha       -1egy(uh             oase    en  i_olded.  MRal1,  hospitals1,h ..wevee, tnlude health          dandmdigal
aud  ignto,petrleu, ntura  ga  an   .yd.-  maclost and g-teml er                       str   o  permnenly stePfed hyaPtyIrtc  (hot by a medical assistant.
n icInyl toi kilogeacs ot cole-      iuln  Per ...pits; 196C, 19 71. end 1978                 nremideifo, ntn.j wItch uffec lu-patient s             ndtined proide a
dana.                                                                                         lmite.d range of medho-I f-oiiitios.F. Pur  taietiral P.purpe   rben hecpi-
PIPPIITION WIND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               htarle l'd.WOca  no rual. osplns1 and mcdiootiand heaPtac Itt  remdece
Tunol1 Populatio.t  Mid-too  (MlIo) -. An of July 1; 1990, 1970, ond 1978                    divin   a hiusnnll te r    -I   Totel, neater ofi.. adis     to.it 00di..re
data,                                                                from~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I tospitaln divided hy the neater of lads.
Urton  1Popolunio  Icerncot of tuoul1    Ratio of urban to tota  popatiun;
different d             oiotin    f -bIon arsemy efot onar-bility  of dote             HOUSING
among.. cotuies;19110, 1970, oud 1978 dor.tAeueSe   flnood  nrnnrvhoeod  -mtl.ra.adrel
cplioinyat 1010 - Currees prputetiuo p-ojenh.         are hesed on 1910            and"'thei  mimel.  A berdr  onldger cup or map .to  be ino1udod In
Itota  popolutlo  hy  gem and ose and their nertahty sod ferniliany eshe.                 tt  hu..sehuld fur statis tical  u-pumee
Penjeotino poramtern 1 ltfor eurnatlilyrtes  -upetne of ebre teec-           sm-       Aeeenohrfgreruon   pee mom- nural, -rkc, end rural -Aveag  sun-A
hoc11 him anetnpan hit  u cinc nith c...otey- P-55   -pcIn ilol",                        he-fpeeu            pn .ro   In all urken, an   urlocid   neveI'nl,
level;, ad tamle1 lif%r opon~tany satbiloinig at 7.75 yearn.  The par-                   dwlig . repeniv-ly.  Del11ingsesol.dnenPc                     An  e1trunt-e  and
scour  for frilctp  aeau   aeotrlvl   tutg d-litue iu                                   unuouped prs
fertilty p.occu dung no  Iccm   -lea  coAss fenlIv planning porfo"anm.                 Amo-o no  ln cp (prenIf deehhingm)- toa,                    -r,ad-rural -
Each coutry i Ic the   omiged 000 ofnts-  ninecnicineo.otlt                               CuOv_ntiuna I doliug   i eerit    nlvn   urtr   spretg
aud fertility trendo for projootien purpoce.t.                                            of rural1, -rka, and rural dwellings   ep-tniv-ly.
Stationar y population -. It t ntion..ry pupuletien these is no growth since
the birth rats Is eqa  torte death rats, and acu ithsag   en..ur t.            - ...    ucATIN
ma ncrusiet    TinIa   hoioved only, slier fertility rannodsln50                   AjndinometMiu
LIe neplacemet level of -tit net reproduction rant,  hel  cent ge...ratiun                PIIIary ano t.t.ul. male and faetei  - Genes total, male and femal
of women rylanoc htoli omant h.It  c-tiem-ry puplatian sie  oca                   sno ..et of alt aee nit the primayleel ae percesteges of cesppetive
esiatd on the heieof the pouJeoned th-rgtneisti usof rho popultin                            ruar  sho-1g    oulenc  nmalyiotde lidcogd91
ho tho year l0ll, an  the rtet of donlino of fertility rein  to repleo-                     persto  dj_cted fur diffen-en lengths of pomery edaaatius; for
Year  tatInaryenroano    in reahed - Th. yea  ohen etai-nry ppaha-i-n                  a osms  pol-r eleo   ho  the I,ofIial ecen  s
sice tan tbtne-ohed.                                                                      Aeodr   col-ttl   eeed fceate - Ccmpoted en above; ...n.ndry
Per mu. Am.    Mid-year popol.tion Per  qoave killo--a (109 honscros) of                       lrvdefecd   o enioet  or- nereoe  teein  isedpinsc   i-tnP-troib
total are..sully uP 17 so 17 peers uf age; n-respendenn  nuorm  ae.   genstlty
ler en  o. aetoltrl.lad - Comp-rd ao stove freagtolurlIced                                    e_nldsd._Voti
Puoustiton Ass Structure imm.nent) - Ohtll1dr-e  (I-it4 ve..e I..octn-c  (15                    iocludrt-nrnl,idsiil  orcIe   rorme                      m   oP.ct   ndp
64 years), cud retired (W  yeead oe) pan per terge- of mid-your pups-                         dently ce as depam-ucen  of eennndarp inetitutiurs
latico; 19611, 190,ad 1979 date.                                                            P          hu-ene  ratio - uriary .an      eodery - Tendj et,dene enrolld In
Peultiun ir_uh Rat  (perne..n) - tote1 -~ .o..o  gooth estee of total mid-                    prmr   n   eonaylvi  dvddb   ubers of te...ho-. In the
yea  ,puptai.. for1950-60, 1960-70, ad 1970-78.voepndglve.
.Poplaior. Growth late (pern-ns  - oIbn -. Wumas growth rates of urban popo-                  Idols .. piserinv rent-ecnl- ieaodle.e                       otodadois
istiono  fur loll-li, 1I60-7I, sad 1970-79.                                                   .00pretg    fttlamtpopUistion aged 15 pear  ond over.
Cade Mirth lana (roe tlu... d) - Aenua live hits Pere thu.....d of mid-yea
population;1960, 1970, anI4 197  disc.                                                 COSBBIiPTION
Crude leet on   (rer thousad) - AAn-I d-hob  per thousanId of mid-pee                       Ponen..ee& lure Ipso nh Muedrutenu-Pes e noscopie                          -oe
pplto;1960, 1970, and 1978 dnta.                                                     -er  seating Irm  tha  sig ht persons; colludes cnhstaote, ho-cres  aed
Si.es ReerudacilunRtenr-Wvrege mushber of daughtr   a  na               Ihari...nrovhils
toenra   erdcloprodi   h   uetne   rtn  ags-spri P                          Infr         Radil.eEieivvro   (50,houod reputetie).- Alt typos of recsiverm  fcc redt
of hteh--ot-ot doni-e  under aumpicea uf -,.-tonli.:I    lnln'or...                                     ..,or o               ora nay nun be comparable since. meet
Pa-ily fl-ni3g.Ceo(omnof macriduuc)-,oeafoin.rrd                                              .,u  r,                1-..fun   lv,_
ooe   f chuld-be-ring age  l tyean  oo' -Ate Ous)ccr    eor   .                        .?.tvy    ~u   ~~Ap                ltu(-TO'  ..o.ive.. fou t..d...t tu
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                    .4~~~~~~~~~~eneopr Cruaie(e   huadeoaitionj - shoes ohs outrag  niot- r
lodex of Pood Pruduction  err Caita )1969-71100) - lIndenn.         ercpt  annual             tutof      "det  gnRal innrt nespcpae'-, defined c   A porindinip-
serduntiu  o f al ..o.oouiio   Puoto toloe  te  adfedan                                      i-tiee delteed primarily  In esording genere I       enc   En- I  isnssdered
i t: on calendard your       a h disie.Cmm dities oovr poimeytood (e.g.  saean              tokbe 'daily' if in apper  en .leat four nine  awek
tIta    fsgr    htor   dbeodnncntret   eg    ofecd                                       CInem  Ann.o. IAtteodam.. err Capita Pet Year -lace.d on thc n,abcr of
teaorennudd.Aggregate p-rd-inh    oF each -uatry is based on                                tiniest soldd ioteg the pact, in-toding admisin.. to drive- is nIIsas
national.. averge producer printe_tights ; 196 1-65, 1970, ced 1978 data.
Proe  ot   ueyo  naloro   (p2rneut ofroiesne                    Computed Boon               admuienits.
enryeuvl   I non fuod n,ppieio  coailbatl  in  rute  per -apito            LABOR tb<'P
yet day   vo-ilablo  tupplion copi    omsi  prod-cIn   sotils                                   C        o    to  rn  -fnofoi  aso   ese,  inoldig
coporno. .,d chAnge      iok.  Ioapyitotiduma c.   ord,                                    re  f,t  o' ucpovctt eunladieg hn-oiv a, todus,sn
qunenha  ue  i  todprono ug  ad  osesandotetoio.    eqit.              l:I"r   ncr u  coutries ore not  -opa-ble; 1960, 1970 esd
-eni  coro netimtatd by Pot, b...d on physiulogical needd 00c   neosa1  -ci               8',  ita.
viny and  hcalith-k unedroIng  evrne talnoperanar, body aeights, 59 t                  len.s(PomotAtI  F-1nil  lahr1 orc-        a  pernenage of nts1a labor fuesm.
ond c0 itributionJ of poultio,and -soing 10 parn...t fur -ine Ot                         arvlueIrnti-Letc  fcen  in fmming,. foestry,htins amd
hooondleve; E16-6,1970, and 1977 dan.                                                  ituaspe Reoan  ufstul. labor fort; 191   97   n   97   ee
Per capita sorplo of re0teir (ereem nor day)_-P        -tenonert of Potus,       o        Ind.ann_paren L b-ttr  ro  intineg                    ..n.rutiu,  sasafactoring
non nupply of,food per.dap   lt. eupplp of food is doOied se shove.  Re-                  e'frotip,ceradancpretgefsndltroc;190
quirmnnno fo  all  oanscis     IIrblsed by USDA pmnvide for minimu                 1970 und 1976 data.
Ilcau    f 60 Haine of toalprne    e  day an  RI' grum   of  nien1 end            P-tnivio   inMt  eret  -Ioa,ml.cd femal  - FPerticipat's  r
pulue Protein, of which 10  g-n  shul  betiml   protein   Ths              Isad-          ariviy rates are  onpotdastotl   al,ed 0 oml  labor forsa
ards are tInse ihon these uf 75 g-on  of total pentsm   and,73 gram   of                 pIcnaa   f  utal mai  ad Oeepeputatlu  uf elage . r.e..pentively;
animal prrteit amoraeragefor thwrl, 1%P,penpused ky FlO in the Third                    P1860,170,' ced 1975 data.  Thet=ar  PLO'.a parnioipatiom  rstee  -efleottg
World1 Pond Sorer y; i961-65, 1970an  1977adte.aa-e    sunr  of nh, population, sod lung rise treed.  A Ben ..ti-
pee capIta ernrn   olo froI nia a             P""lm   -  rotein supply If food de-          materePontoalcrea
Chrivd firon  -nim1e IAd pubes. in grams Pee dop; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 date.    Dcoemc Bredeeny Rietio - Rtnio of population coder 15 and 61 sed ever
Cid (age  1-A) tior 'ta y lane (pee tosn)-bnAlA.  deaths Par sheasend is                    so the total Ieb.r force.
age grop 4IA   acsso Acidc   isthin age grop; Ice .soo  developins coo-
tMie  data derived  tru  life  tables; 1960, 1971  and 1977dn.ICMEISMBVI
PnatcnOPetoes   n2mmc (bmoh tu  -ahcd kij - Rcived by rirhest
Lif. aElPe-...nv at Birth )o s -..  dtAverage number of paces of life   . rmining             of per at.  rihshI  acn,p1ed                  1pecn,en   ors.W   ecn
an birth; 1960,I 170 end 199daa
Isfen Mortaity late (per thoceand) A- ...toadefttle of inonte under net yea               POVERTY TARGET GMOUPS
of age Per thousand live hieths.                                                          Banimeted Abhentul  oet   ooetvl(S  pet tai_a)L- aehe  and enrol
A_ee s   SaeWtr _nr t of roru.tsion) - tont.l orhn   nd  art -                                Absolute p-vaty isrue 1-vel Is thee tumeelee  btw   hob5siSo
NubeIf people (total, -bten, od rualI        mttesc'aLeauetoel                          nuiteoiaqsrdttpsesnilnt-odrsimntasot
wate  supply (ier1udee treated surf- s   cter  or ontre..tad bct anroteineted              affordable.
oIte...oh am tbat fro  prtecte~d herehee, sprIngs, seW snit-ryoeiln   Be                 Estimated Relctive Poverty leoetvL-  loll Pee nrita) - orhb  and coral1
peeaageothIrrpofieppasc.InAn  ea   raeph                                                   Morel relative povety iome  eve  is  o-ithd of  _vog  Per  "tept
fInnPeted.o.beig...tiryrccofIhe-aness olthatloosedIn.rralhaeas1
_111d"Id 11 I 119 ~~It 1.   . ...... Itth.leh-.aitI.a-l.1t-...                               ic   hidrcs   f limsitg uI hamrb          e
roasunatlo  _nnes  woud imply that the  .. bu weofe or members of the hu-ohni.             .ahad 1~-   Pitah   esoo    huat   eel   wm    ee  (remnan...t)   sbt
doou tuv  to- -epend 5disp-p-rtlon..te part If thm day In fetchinA  the                     Im rra    Percet of populto (I hnedcrl   h   r    heoepun
diralp   Numbr o  p.preuplo. Insl ut at  adIotl)seme  tytSoaneDatesaW
Pe..l may in-lado rhe  Jlenntin AnAd diep l   itth 00wtnnssamc,Iuo_in am1ysis end Prujoitiom   Dspeeten
of human      . eeta sod  ..ate-neto  by water-borne systems       ste use of                                                              October 1980
pin prvc     lo imin   us_        ttoa



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                        Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
JAMAICA
Population:       2.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,240 (1979)
Amount
(million US$ at
Indicators                     current prices)                                 Actual               _
1979             1975       1976       1977       1978        1979      1980
PRICES
GDP deflator (1974=100)                                  121.2      134.9      150.9      190.2       218.9    294.3
Exchange rate (J$ per US$)                                 0.91       0.91       1.25       1.48        1.77      1.78
Share of GDP at market prices (%)         Average Annual Increase (7)
(at current prices)                 (at constant 1974 prices)
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS a/                       1975       1978       1980                   1975/78  1978/80
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS-/
Gross Domestic Product                         2,521       100.0      100.0      100.0                     -2.9      -3.0
Agriculture                                 177          7.7        9.5        8.6                      4.3      -7.8
Industry                                    953         36.4       32.6       30.9                     -6.4      -5.6
Services                                  1,264         55.9       57.9       60.5                     -1.8      -0.8
Consumption                                    2,163        84.8       83.6       90.0                     -1.3      -2.5
Gross Domestic Investment                        396        26.0       15.0       15.4                    -21.0      -0.9
Exports GNFS                                   1,169        34.6       42.1       39.0                     10.4       2.3
Imports GNFS                                  1,207         45.4       40.7       44.4                      2.7       2.6
Gross National Savings                           225        16.7       11.2        6.5                    -17.3    -29.7
As % of GDP
1975/76              19-7 7/T78            1980/81 ~
PUBLIC FINANCE b/
Current Revet- e                                                      24.5                  21.4                 22.8
Current Expenditure                                                   24.1                  27.9                 27.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                             0.4                  -6.4                 -5.1
Capital Expenditure                                                   11.7                  11.1                  9.8
Foreign Finance (net)                                                  3.8                   0.7                  6.0
a/ At market prices; componencs are c24redscu at factor cost aed will not add due to exclusion of net
indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Fiscal year - April l/March 31.
cf Estimated.



ANNEX I
- 28 -                                 Page 5 of 6
1975-78               1978-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                    -3.3                 -5.2
GND per capita growth rate (%)                                         -4.5                 -5.4
ICOR                                                                  -15.4                -14.5
Marginal savings rate                                                  n.a.                 n.a.
Import elasticity                                                       5.0                  1.6
Amount                     Annual Growth Rates (x)
(million US$ at              (at constant  1974 prices)
current prices)                         Actual
1980          1976       1977       1978        1979        1980
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                        858            -12.8        7.2        2.3         2.2        -1.5
Traditional                              693           -18.7        12.3       -0.8       -0.6        -1.3
Nontraditional                           165            27.5      -15.3        20.1       15.2        -2.6
Merchandise imports                      1,170            -22.5      -28.6        9.8       -5.3         -4.3
Food                                      90           -35.5      -50.8        42.2      -13.6        -6.8
Fuels                                    440            -9.8         7.1     -21.8        41.1         8.0
Machinery & Equipment                    190           -35.4       -43.5       23.8      -24.6       -14.7
Other                                    450           -14.6      -30.0        21.6       16.7        -9.3
PRICES (1974=100)
Export price index                                        121.3      132.3      130.6      134.6       153.0
Import price index                                       121.0       138.7      146.3      179.1       218.1
Terms of trade index                                     100.2        95.4       89.2       75.2        70.1
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)            Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                 (at constant 1974 prices)
1975          1978       1980                   1975-78    1978-80
Exports                                    100.0         100.0       100.0                   -1.5         0.3
Traditional                               87.3          82.8       80.8                    -3.2        -0.9
Nontraditional                            12.7          17.2        19.2                    9.1         5.9
Imports                                    100.0         100.0       100.0                  -15.0        -4.8
Food                                      11.6           8.6         7.7                  -23.3       -10.3
Fuel                                      19.1          22.4       37.6                   -10.8        23.5
Machinery and equipment                   30.8          22.9       16.2                   -23.3       -19.8
other                                     38.5          46.1       38.5                   -10.1       -13.1



- 29                                    ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at current prices)
Actual
Indicator                                                1976       1977       1978      1979       1980--
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                               881        916        972      1159       1258
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                             617        721        728       767        858
Imports of goods and services                              1203       1016       1094      1410       1633
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                             913        747        865      1003       1170
Net transfers                                                 6         20         26         80       100
Current account balance                                    -316        -80        -96      -171       -275
Private direct investment                                    -          -          -         -          -
Public capital                                              102         -3        139         17        95
Other capital                                               -30         -5       -150          6        62
Allocation of SDRs                                           -          -          -          10        10
Change in reserves2J                                       -244        -88       -107      -138       -108
Gross International reserves (end year)                      29         39         59        62         93
Reserves as months imports                                    0.38       0.63       0.82       0.74      0.95
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                         198        118        225       227        181
Exterrnal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                           880        942       1055      1183       1295
Official (end year)
O/W IBRD                                                59         68       112        127        171
Undisbursed debt (end year)                              252        308        385       381        387
0/N Ifl                                                 68        101         99       139         69
Debt service
Public service payments                                  109        151        192       208        169
Interest                                                53         61        71         96         95
Payments as % of exports                                  12.4       16.5       19.8      17.9       13.4
a/ Includes commercial arrears.
b/ Preliminary.
April 3, 1981



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans (as of February 28, 1981)
----US$ million ----
Loan         Fiscal                                                Amount
No.          Year         Borrower        Purpose            (less cancellation)
Bank       TT iAh1ir8ell
10 loans fully disbursed                                   89.9
727          1971         Jamaica         Education         13.5            .5
1003          1974         Jamaica         Sites & Services 15.0            5.2
1032          1975         Jamaica         Highways          13.5           1.9
1043          1975         Jamaica         Airports          12.5             .2
1146          1975         The Water       Sewerage/
Commission     Water           15.0            4.1
1284          1976         Jamaica         Population         6.8           3.7
1464          1977         Jamaica         Rural Deve-
lopment          15.0          10.3
1516          1978         Jamaica Public
Service Com-
pany Ltd.    Power             20.0           10.7
1517          1978         Sugar Industry
Authority    Agriculture       18.0            8.3
1609          1979         Jamaica         Small Scale
Industry        7.0            2.6
1715          1979         Jamaica         Second Program
Loan            31.5           1.0
1716          1979         Jamaica         Forestry          12.0           9.3
1740          1979         Jamaica         Highways          16.0          12.8
Total (net cancellations)                     285.7
of which has been repaid                       28.4
Total now outstanding                         257.3
Amount sold                     1.6
of which has been repaid        1.6             0.0
Total now held by Bank                        257.3
Total undisbursed                                             70.5
a/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone
Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of June 15, 1980
US$ million
Type of                   Loan    Equity    Total
Date    Borrower             Business
1961    Jamaica Pre-Mix
Ltd.              Pre-Mix Concrete            0.2      -         0.2
1969    Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.      Tourism                     2.2     0.7        2.9
1980    West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.      Glass containers            2.3      -         2.3
4.7     0.7        5.4
Less cancellations, terminations,
participations, sales and repayments            1.8      -         1.8
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.9     0.7        3.6
Total Undisbursed                               2.3       -        2.3
C. Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 727-JM:   Second Education Project:  US$13.5 million
Loan of March 25, 1971; Effective date: July 30, 1971;
Closing date: March 31, 1981.
The project has been physically completed following a five year
delay resulting primarily from a high turnover of project staff and a lack
of implementation machinery. The closing date has recently been extended
to allow disbursement of the remaining loan balance for urgently needed
library books and other learning materials for project institutions.
Ln. No. 1003-JM:  Sites and Services Project:  US$15.0 million
Loan of June 13, 1974; Effective date: September 9, 1974;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 4 years behind schedule due
to delays in establishing and staffing the project unit and problems with
contractors. These delays resulted in a cost overrun of the original project
of about 25%. In view of the Government's budgetary constraints the project
has therefore been restructured to allow for some reduction in the number
of lots to be developed and for a significant reduction in housing standards.
The revised project is expected to be completed by mid-1982.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. No. 1032-JM: Third Highway Project: US$13.5 million
Loan of July 26, 1974; Effective date:  September 27, 1974;
Closing date: September 30, 1981.
Construction has been delayed due to shortages of engineering
staff, reliable equipment, cement and asphalt. The project is now scheduled
for completion in mid 1981, about four years later than the appraisal estimate,
and the closing date has been extended to September 30, 1981.
Ln. No. 1043-JM: Airport Development Project: US$12.5 million
Loan of October 2, 1974; Effective date: March 14, 1975;
Closing date: December 31, 1980.
The project has been completed except for the installation of
minor equipment. Remaining disbursements for payments in connection with
this equipment are expected to be completed shortly.
Ln. No. 1146-JM: Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project: US$15 million
Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective date: June 24, 1976;
Closing date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is more than 3 years behind the appraisal
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Borrower's financial
position has, however, continuously deteriorated and tariff increases are
necessary. The Borrower has suggested tariff increases supported by the
Bank but no action has yet been taken.
Ln. No. 1284-JM: Second Population Project: US$6.8 million
Loan of June 12, 1976; Effective date: August 30, 1976;
Closing date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation has progressed reasonably well. The civil
works on health center facilities are expected to be completed by mid 1981.
Disbursements are however lagging behind. Completion of other project
components is expected to be delayed until early 1982.
Ln. No. 1464-JM: Rural Development Project: US$15 million
Loan of June 29, 1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977;
Closing date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage
of funds, manpower problems and the difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. The first group
of settlers have been placed and farm home construction initiated.
Ln. No. 1516-JM:  Second Power Project:  US$20 million
Loan of March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978;
Closing date: September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consider-
able delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most
of the loan proceeds have been committed. JPSC's operations have been



- 3-                        ANNEX II
Page 4
seriously affected by the limited availability of its most fuel efficient
generating units due to poor maintenance and operating procedures and a
lack of spare parts. The Government has requested a Bank loan for the
rehabilitation of these units, for improvements to JPSC's system and for
the development of hydro resources. Although JPSC's financial position
has improved, an increase in tariffs will be required to meet the agreed
covenant.
Ln. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million
Loan of March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978;
Closing date: June 30, 1983.
Although progress in the rehabilitation of factories is satis-
factory, the financial position of The National Sugar Company, executor
of the project, remains difficult. Favourable developments of world sugar
prices and the availability of harvesting and transportation equipment
to be financed from previously unallocated loan proceeds, are expected
to result in an increase in cane production and have a positive effect
on NSC's financial position.
Ln. No. 1609-JM: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project: US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27, 1978;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Implementation of the program for very small scale enterprises has been
adversely affected by the uncertainty concerning the institutional arrange-
ments, but is expected to improve with the merger between two agencies
into a new institution--Small Industry Finance Company (SIFCO).
Ln. No. 1715-JM: Second Program Loan: US$31.5 million
Loan of June 8, 1979; Effective date: August 27, 1979;
Closing date: December 31, 1982.
Loan proceeds allocated to the Export Development Fund to finance
imports of raw materials and components for expansion of non-traditional
exports have been fully disbursed. Implementation of the technical assis-
tance components financed with loan proceeds is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1716-JM: Forestry Project: US$12 million
Loan of June 8, 1979; Effective date: December 11, 1979;
Closing date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule but is proceeding satis-
factorily. Actual planting and and clearing remained below targets due
to inadequate planning, late arrival of equipment and poor weather conditions.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million
Loan of July 10, 1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979;
Closing date: March 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, shortages
of key staff and of budget resources. In view of the Government's diffi-
cult budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project
has been restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential
maintenance work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic
maintenance.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
JAMAICA
SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Loan request made to Bank              November 1980
(b) Appraisal mission                      November 1980
(c) Completion of negotiations             March 30, 1981
(d) Planned date of effectiveness          August 14, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.        A special condition of effectiveness would be the signing of
a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank for onlending by the
Government to the EDF (para. 56).
2.        The following would be special conditions of disbursements:
(a) Approval by the EDF's Board of a policy statement for medium-
term financing, acceptable to the Bank (para. 63);
(b) provision of satisfactory assurance by BCJ regarding its
participation in the Project (para. 59).
3.        The Government has agreed:
(a) To maintain the EDF for at least six years (para. 56);
(b) to always use loan funds to promote exports (para. 56);
(c) to simplify import licensing application requirements for
EDF users and to assure that licenses for EDF financed imports
are granted promptly (para. 66);
(d) submit the results of a study of required industrial reforms
and to consult with the Bank by July 31, 1981 on a specific
program of action for industrial reforms (para. 67).
4.        The Government and the Bank of Jamaica have agreed not to deny
EDF users benefits that may be granted to other exporters as a result of
any change in foreign exchange laws and regulations, unless such denial
would not affect their competitiveness (para. 65).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
5.        The Bank of Jamaica has agreed to replenish the EDF with US Dollars
(para. 63).
6.        The JECIC and EDF have agreed:
(a) to amend EDF policies and procedures by July 31, 1981 to
enable EDF to commence cash operations (para. 58) and to
regulate medium-term financing operations (para. 63);
(b) to report quarterly on export performance by EDF clients
(para. 59);
(c) to review the export performance and foreign exchange needs
and availability of the banana industry to determine its
eligibility to use EDF resources beyond June 30, 1982 (para.
59);
(d) to review interest rates quarterly and to adjust rates as
required (paras. 60 and 63);
(e) to undertake an analysis of requests for medium-term financing
(para. 62);
(f) to use roll-over funds for the same purposes as those of
the project (para. 63);
(g) to establish electronic data processing, management control,
information and performance evaluation systems by September 30,
1981 (para. 70); and
(h) to establish by July 31, 1981 a Technical Committee to JECIC
and the EDF composed of key managers of the JECIC and represen-
tatives of the private manufacturing and commercial banking
sectors (para. 70).






BRCD 3067R3
on~~                                                        ~              ~~ &      LP4 0  '~ I - 11 ~ ~;o vt                                                             ZT'CCd                              MOO                                CORI'                                NARGA  
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      FWwe GOLF    RICA                                                                                                                       M    eEXICO
~~~Aw~~A
ElORSCAIBENAE
xfsg g H ANOVER         \            ,  ST. JAMES         |           TRELAWNY)                                               2         '          H         <          >         -        -,zTeanbu    3   co  OLAIS
-5 t WE\STMORLAND                        I    --                -          --?< -< |                  ?                )                , ^ ' (                                  ' >                    4             t            /O
Ak             t            A~vA                                                                                                       E W
%~~~~~~~~ CLARE                                                                                                                    ;W%                                         \W_PRTAD\
T : ;E: \=i ' t! ':~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABi:NCj';:ff           ST. THOMAS ~
: ); i 5 i G i ~~~~~'4 f                               T    U        "   '   i          0   (On  9>,, , 
JAMAICA                                 M;;_   ;                                                                                                                                                                                          ;i                           coot , e  - 
G    -                                        $      rG        ,;t    0't   "'   :X   ! ;21T tU; -; !> j;l 0 i  l  W.l S  v tP ;JE  i l{UTb -l; ;0  0  1 
C   A  0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  tE            W                       ;lu           r;  '{;!;;                                               20- A<u G r ;   _     $ I fXlt'(;-  '0                        CoS                                  Tn =M OO'5



