FFiCIAL
)OCUMINTS
LOAN NUMBER 1978 JM
Project Agreement
(Second Export Development Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF JAMAICA
and
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND JAMAICA LIMITED
and
JAMAICA EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
and
JAMAICA NATIONAL EXPORT CORPORATION
Dated                           , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1978 JM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANK OF JAMAICA (hereinafter called BOJ)
and EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND JAMAICA LIMITED (hereinafter called
the Fund) and JAMAICA EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
(hereinafter called JECIC) and JAMAICA NATIONAL EXPORT CORPORATION
(hereinafter called JNEC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty seven million dollars
($37,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BOJ, the Fund, JECIC
and JNEC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Fund
acting through JECIC with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will, out of the proceeds
of the Loan: (A) relend to the Fund amounts equivalent to thirty
six million dollars ($36,000,000) or such other amount or amounts
as shall be allocated to Category (1) in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement;
(C) Part B of the Project will be carried out by JECIC
and JNEC with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will, out of the proceeds of the Loan,
grant to JECIC and JNEC amounts equivalent to three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000) and seven hundred thousand dollars
($700,000), respectively or such other amount or amounts as shall
be allocated to JECIC and JNEC in Category (2) in Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC, in consideration of
the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
have each agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the term "export cycle" means the
period between the time of payment for an import to an overseas
supplier or creditor and the time of payment by an overseas
purchaser, or the time of delivery to an exporter, of the goods
incorporating such impcrt.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Fund (acting through JECIC), JECIC and JNEC
shall each carry out their Parts of the Project and conduct their
operations and affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and banking standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel and in accordance with their respective
Memorandum and Articles of Association or, in the case of JNEC,
the Jamaica National Export Corporation Act.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist JECIC and JNEC in
carrying out their respective obligations under Part B of the
Project, JECIC and JNEC shall each employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) JECIC shall, as necessary, arrange for counterparts
to be assigned to the consultants employed under paragraph (a)
above.
(c) JECIC and JNEC shall each furnish the Bank with a
description of how the proceeds of the Loan made available to
each will be used to carry out Part B of the Project.
(d) JECIC and JNEC shall each before making any expenditures
for technical assistance under Part B of the Project send
the proposals for such expenditures to the Bank for its prior
approval.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the following provisions:
(i) goods shall be procured from member countries of
the Bank, Switzerland and Taiwan; and
(ii) contracts for goods estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more shall only be entered
into after prior solicitation of price quotations
from competitive suppliers.
Section 2.04. (a) JECIC shall, subject to such policy direc-
tions and guidance as it may receive from the Fund's Board,
continue to manage the business of the Fund in accordance with the
Statement of Policies and Procedures (as such Statement may from
time to time be modified by the Fund in agreement with the Bank)
and in accordance with the Guidelines for the operation of the
Fund set out in the Schedule to the Project Agreement (Second
Program Loan) dated June 8, 1979 between the Bank, BOJ, JECIC and
JNEC, as modified by the financing terms and conditions set out in
the Schedule hereto.
(b) JECIC shall monitor the performance of enterprises
to which sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the Loan have
been made.
(c) JECIC shall promptly review every three months the
discount rate payable by the commercial banks in respect of
sub-loans and shall adjust the discount rate, in consultation with
the Bank, if conditions in the international money and capital
market should so warrant.
Section 2.05. (a) JECIC undertakes to cause the enterprises
participating in the Project to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to the Fund by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by such enterprises to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Fund, JECIC
and JNEC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan made available to the Fund, JECIC and JNEC


﻿by the Borrower to be used exclusively for their Parts of the
Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the reports
for their Parts of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Fund, JECIC and JNEC: (i) shall each maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of their Parts of the the Project (including the cost and the
benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in their Parts of the Project; (ii) shall each enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities of
the Fund, JECIC, JNEC and any enterprise whose imports have been
financed from the Fund's resources and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall each furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning their Parts of the Project, the cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) The Fund and JECIC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
quarterly reports in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
on the export performance of enterprises to which sub-loans have
been made.
(d) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of their Parts of the Project, the cost and benefits
derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance by the
Bank, JECIC and JNEC of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) The Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each,
at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with


﻿- 5 -
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each promptly
inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by BOJ, the Fund,
JECIC or JNEC of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.08. JECIC shall, no later than three months after
the date of this Agreement, conclude with the Fund an agreement
modifying, as necessary, its existing management agreement with
the Fund in order to provide for the exercise by JECIC, acting on
behalf of the Fund, of all of the Fund's responsibilities under
the Project.
Section 2.09. The Fund shall promptly notify the Bank of any
change made in the Statement of Policies and Procedures.
Section 2.10. JECIC and the Fund shall, before the commence-
ment of dollar sales operations and in any case no later than
July 31, 1981, have the Fund's Board approve modifications,
satisfactory to the Bank, of the Fund's Statement of Policies and
Procedures in order to provide for the regulation of the dollar
sales operations of the Fund.
Section 2.11. JECIC and the Fund shall by July 31, 1981
prepare for the Fund a statement of policy, satisfactory to
the Bank, providing for the regulation of medium term financing
by the Fund of permanent working capital and equipment under the
Project.
Section 2.12. JECIC and the Fund shall by July 31, 1981
establish and thereafter maintain in a form and with membership
and functions satisfactory to the Bank a Technical Committee to
assist the Fund and JECIC in their operations in the private
export sector.
Section 2.13. JECIC and the Fund shall no later than Septem-
ber 30, 1981 complete the acquisition, development and establish-
ment of the electronic data processing, and management control,
information and performance evaluation systems included in Part B
(1) of the Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.14. JECIC and the Fund shall review with the
Bank by June 30, 1982 the export performance and foreign exchange
needs and resources of the banana industry with a view to deter-
mining, in consultation with the Bank, whether or not the banana
industry should continue to be granted access to the resources of
the Fund beyond June 30, 1982.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the
Fund, JECIC and JNEC
Section 3.01. The Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. If the Fund, JECIC or JNEC establishes or
acquires any subsidiary, the Fund, JECIC or JNEC (as the case
may be) shall cause such subsdiary to observe and perform its
obligations hereunder to the extent to which such obligations
shall be, or can be made, applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Obligations of BOJ
Section 4.01. BOJ shall ensure that appropriate permissions
are given to the parties mentioned in this Section to carry out
the actions and procedures set out below:
(a) commercial banks shall: (i) on the completion of the
export cycle of items financed under a short-term sub-loan,
credit the Fund with the dollar amount of the sub-loan, plus any
amounts due in respect of the discount rate and administration
fees of JECIC on a discounted short-term sub-loan or in respect of
interest accumulated by the Fund on Jamaican currency holdings
deposited by an eligible enterprise as a condition of the sale of
foreign exchange by the Fund; and (ii) surrender to BOJ the
balance of any foreign currency from the export;
(b) commercial banks shall on the due dates of payments
under a medium-term sub-loan credit the Fund with the local
currency equivalent of dollars due under such sub-loan, plus any


﻿- 7 -
amounts due in respect of the discount rate and administration
fees of the JECIC on a discounted sub-loan;
(c) whenever any such commercial bank surrenders to the Fund
the local currency equivalent of dollars due to the Fund under a
sub-loan made to an eligible enterprise for the manufacturing of
intermediate goods for sale to an eligible enterprise which
exports, BOJ shall continue to pay to the Fund the dollars
so due within 90 days after receipt from the Fund of the local
currency equivalent;
(d) whenever any such commercial bank surrenders to the
Fund the local currency under a medium-term sub-loan, BOJ shall
pay to the Fund the dollars due promptly after receipt from the
Fund of the local currency equivalent; and
(e) foreign exchange holdings of the Fund shall be in
accounts independent and separate from BOJ's and shall be held
and managed by the Fund and JECIC in banks of their choice.
Section 4.02. BOJ shall continue to pay to the Fund any
dollars due to the Fund in respect of a sub-loan whenever: (i) the
export cycle exceeds 365 days, except for sub-loans made for
permanent working capital or equipment; or (ii) an enterprise
fails to export or defaults on its sub-loan; or (iii) currencies
are earned from export sales which commercial banks are unable to
exchange for dollars on the international money market.
Section 4.03. BOJ undertakes not to deny to eligible enter-
prises granted access to resources of the Fund, benefits that may
be provided for other exporters under its exchange authority
unless the Bank, the Borrower and BOJ shall jointly determine that
such denial would not affect the international competitiveness of
the exports of such enterprises.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices their respective
operations and financial condition.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. The Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each: (i) have
their respective accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their respective
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning their
respective accounts and financial statements -nd the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC thereunder shall
terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so
notify BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC of such termination.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall


﻿- 9 -
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BOJ,
Bank of Jamaica
Nethersole Place
P.O. Box 621
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable Address:                      Telex:
RESERVE                            381-2165
Kingston                           Kingston
For the Fund:
Export Development Fund Jamaica Limited
c/o Jamaica Export Credit Insurance
Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 3
Nethersole Place
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                      Telex:
RESERVE                            381-2165
Kingston                           381-2173


﻿- 10 -
For JECIC:
Jamaica Export Credit Insurance
Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 3
Nethersole Place
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                     Telex:
RESERVE                           381-2165
Kingston                          381-2173
For JNEC:
Jamaica National Export Corporation
P.O. Box 645
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                         Telex:
Jamaica National Export Corporation   2124
Kingston
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of: (A) BOJ may be taken or executed by
BOJ's Secretary or such other person as BOJ shall designate in
writing; (B) the Fund may be taken or executed by the Fund's
chairman or such other person or persons as the Fund shall
designate in writing; (C) JECIC may be taken or executed by
JECIC's chairman or such other person or persons as JECIC shall
designate in writing; and (D) JNEC may be taken or executed by
JNEC's chairman or such other person as JNEC shall designate in
writing; and BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC shall each furnish to
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person or persons.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 11 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    I.S   4F-A              L -e   at&a
By4     /Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANK OF JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND JAMAICA LIMITED
By      /      kv &-o      ;r A Ytsy
Authorized Representative
JAMAICA EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative
JAMAICA NATIONAL EXPORT CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Financing Terms and Conditions
A.   Short-term import operations
Terms of financing or dollar sales shall be for the export
cycle or 365 days, whichever is shorter. In the case of local
suppliers, terms of financing or dollar sales shall extend to
the time of delivery of the financed goods to the exporter.
Eligible enterprises shall be free to select the items and amounts
of goods to be imported with the Fund's resources, subject to
the Fund's limits set for each enterprise and proof that items
being imported are necessary in the manufacture of exports or
of intermediate goods for sale to eligible enterprises which
export, or in the cultivation, harvesting, handling and packaging
of banana for exports.
Interest rates to eligible enterprises shall be based on the
Fund's discount rate, currently 11% plus a 1% administration fee
for JECIC and a 3% spread for the commercial banks. The Fund's
discount rate shall be reviewed every three months and adjusted,
in consultation with the Bank, if conditions in the international
money market should so warrant. Eligible enterprises which pur-
chase dollar requirements shall sell back to the Fund from their
export earnings sufficient currencies to cover both the amount of
dollars purchased and the interest earned by the Fund while
holding the equivalent Jamaican currency.
B.   Permanent Working Capital and Equipment
The terms of medium-term financing for permanent working
capital and equipment shall be the same as those for the Fund's
short-term financing of current imports except that the terms of
such financing shall be for up to four years including up to one
year of grace and shall not be linked to the export cycle.
Medium-term financing shall only be extended to eligible
enterprises for (i) the installation of equipment to attain their
presently rated production capacity in an existing production
process at an existing location of which a reasonable proportion
is for exports or for supply to an exporter, or (ii) for permanent
working capital comprising raw materials, intermediate goods and
spare parts in amounts not exceeding 25% of the enterprise's
incremental projected export sales, or incremental projected sales


﻿- 13 -
to exporters, for the following year. Repayments shall be made in
local currency to be exchanged for dollars by BOJ. Interest rates
shall initially be the same as those for the Fund's short-term
financing operations but shall be reviewed every three months and
be adjusted in consultation with the Bank if conditions in the
international capital market should so warrant. Rollover funds
shall be used for the same purpose as that of the proposed
investment activity.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSIRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /F1     day of       , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


