LOAN NUMBER 1978 JM
Loan Agreement
(Second Export Development Fund Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1978 JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      I              , 1981, between JAMAICA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Export
Development Fund Jamaica Limited (hereinafter called the Fund)
acting through the Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation
Limited (hereinafter called JECIC) and Part B by JECIC and
Jamaica National Export Corporation (hereinafter called JNEC);
(C) the Borrower will assist the Fund, JECIC and JNEC in
carrying out the said Parts of the Project, and as part of such
assistance, will out of the proceeds of the Loan: (i) relend
the Fund an amount equivalent to thirty six milli,n dollars
($36,000,000) or such other amount or amounts as shall be allo-
cated to Category (1) in Schedule 1 hereto; and (ii) grant
to JECIC and JNEC amounts equivalent to three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000) and seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000),
respectively or such othar amount or amounts as shall be allocated
to JECIC and JNEC in Category (2) in Schedule 1 hereto; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, Bank of Jamaica,
the Fund, JECIC and JNEC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank, BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time;
(b) "sub-loan" means: (i) a loan made by a commercial bank
to an eligible enterprise, and discounted by the Fund for: (A) the
importation into Jamaica of raw materials, intermediate goods,
packaging materials and spare parts which will be used in the
manufacture or processing in Jamaica of goods and products; (B)
the importation into Jamaica of recurrent inputs required for the
cultivation, harvesting, handling and packaging of bananas for
export; and (C) permanent working capital and equipment required
by exporters of non-traditional goods and their suppliers to
attain their presently installed rated production capacity;
and (ii) the sale of foreign exchange by the Fund through a
commercial bank to an eligible enterprise for purposes of the
Project; and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 hereto.
(c) "BOJ" means the Bank of Jamaica established under the
Borrower's Bank of Jamaica Act;
(d) "JECIC" means Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corpora-
tion Limited, a company incorporated and operating under the
Borrower's Companies Act;
(e) "JNEC" means Jamaica National Export Corporation, a
statutory corporation established and operating under the Bor-
rower's Jamaica National Export Corporation Act;
(f) "The Fund" means the Export Development Fund Jamaica
Limited, a company established pursuant to the Loan Agreement
(Second Program Loan) dated June 8, 1979 between the Borrower and
the Bank and incorporated and operating under the Borrower's
Companies Act;
(g) "Statement of Policies and Procedures" means the
Statement of Policies and Procedures of the Fund approved by the
Fund's Board on June 15, 1979;


﻿-3-
(h) "eligible enterprise" means an enterprise duly estab-
lished and operating under the laws of the Borrower and qualified
to have access to the resources of the Fund;
(i) "investment activity" means a specific manufacturing
activity to be carried out by an eligible enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan;
(j) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
directly or indirectly owned or effectively controlled by the
Fund, JECIC or JNEC;
(k) "Memorandum and Articles of Association" means with
respect to: (i) JECIC, the Memorandum and Articles of Association
of JECIC dated June 25, 1971; and (ii) the Fund, the Memorandum
and Articles of Association of the Fund dated May 9, 1979;
(1) "Parts of the Project" means with respect to: (i)
the Fund, Part A of the Project; (ii) JECIC, Part B (1) of the
Project; and (iii) JNEC, Part B (2) of the Project;
(m) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and the Fund pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and the term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(n) "'The Banana Company of Jamaica Limited" means the Banana
Company of Jamaica Limited incorporated and operating under the
Borrower's Companies Act.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty seven
million dollars ($37,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for


﻿expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) When presenting a sub-loan for permanent working
capital or equipment (other than a free-limit sub-loan) to the
Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an
application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a
description of the eligible enterprise and an analysis of the
investment activity, including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan; (iii) a description
of the procedures followed in the procurement of goods to be
financed under the sub-loan; and (iv) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the eligible
enterprise and the investment activity, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the sub-loan;
(iii) a description of the procedures followed in the procurement
of goods in excess of $100,000 to be financed under the sub-loan;
and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board of the Fund shall
be included among the persons to be designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower shall ensure that BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
their respective obligations therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the Loan:
(i) relend to the Fund, for the purposes of Part A of the Project,
amounts equivalent to thirty six million dollars ($36,000,000)
or such other amount or amounts as shall be allocated to Category
(1) in Schedule 1 hereto under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Fund on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including repayment of
principal in 17 years, a grace period of 4 years, interest at the
rate specified in Section 2.06 hereof and a fee of one per cent
(1%) per annum; and (ii) grant to JECIC and JNEC, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, amounts equivalent res-
pectively to three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) and


﻿-6-
seven hundred thousand dollars ($700,000) or such other amount or
amounts as shall be allocated to JECIC and JNEC in Category (2) in
Schedule 1 hereto.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that import licenses
are issued promptly to all eligible enterprises whose applications
for access to the Fund's resources have been approved by JECIC;
and shall no later than July 31, 1981 cause the import licensing
application requirements for such enterprises to be simplified.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Fund is
maintained until June 30, 1987 or for such other period as the
Borrower and the Bank may determine.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank shall jointly determine
the uses to which the resources of the Fund shall be put for the
promotion of Jamaican exports upon the cessation of the Fund's
operations or in such other circumstances as the Bank and the
Borrower shall jointly determine.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to obtain all necessary exchange control approvals and exemptions
to enable the Fund and JECIC, acting on behalf of the Fund, to
perform all of the Fund's responsibilities under the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower undertakes not to deny to eligible
enterprises granted access to the resources of the Fund benefits
that may be provided for other exporters under the Borrower's
exchange laws and regulations unless the Bank and the Borrower
shall jointly determine that such denial would not affect the
international competitiveness of the exports of such enterprises.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank the
results of a study of required industrial reforms to be undertaken
by consultants with qualifications, and under terms of reference,
acceptable to the Bank and shall by July 31, 1981 consult with the
Bank on a specific program of action for industrial reforms on the
basis of the above-mentioned study or parts thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿- 7 -
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security fcr payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿-8-
(a) BOJ, the Fund, JECIC or JNEC shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Bank of Jamaica
Act, the Memorandum and Articles of Association or the Jamaica
National Export Corporation Act so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial condition of BOJ, the
Fund, JECIC or JNEC, as the case may be;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Fund's Statement
of Policies and Procedures so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or financial condition of the Fund;
(d) any action shall have been taken by the Borrower or
any other authority having jurisdiction for the dissolution
or disestablishment, or for the suspension of the operations,
of BOJ, the Fund, JECIC or JNEC, as the case may be; and
(e) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by the Fund, JECIC or JNEC,
if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of their respective business or financial
conditions or the efficiency of their respective managements
and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and to BOJ, the Fund, JECIC or JNEC (as the case
may be); and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,


﻿- 9 -
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Fund.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC, and is legally binding
upon BOJ, the Fund, JECIC and JNEC in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and the Fund and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Fund in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date                           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A    '   Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Sub-loans:
(a) Short-term opera-                         22,000,000
tions (manufactur-
ing enterprises)
(b) Short-term opera-                          4,000,000
tions (banana
producers)
(c) Permanent working                         10,000,000
capital and
equipment
(2) Technical assistance:
(a) JECIC                                        300,000
(b) JNEC                                         700,000
TOTAL         37,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower
except with respect to expenditures under Category (2);


﻿- 12 -
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof;
(d) sub-loans made under Category (1) (b) unless assurances
satisfactory to the Fund and the Bank have been received by them
from The Banana Company of Jamaica Limited with respect to that
Company's participation in Part A (2) of the Project; and
(e) sub-loans for permanent working capital or equipment
made under Category (1) (c) unless: (i) the sub-loan shall have
been approved by the Bank; or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-
limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized with-
drawals from the Loan Account; and (iii) the Fund's Board has
approved a statement of policy, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the regulation of medium term financing of permanent working
capital and equipment.
3.   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for permanent
working capital and equipment in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of
$250,000 equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts
for permanent working capital and equipment financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing
amount being subject to change from time to time.
4.   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures in
respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval if such
expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such sub-loan the application and information required by
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any
Category or sub-Category will be insufficient to finance the


﻿- 13 -
expenditures to be made under that Category or sub-Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate from a Category or
sub-Category to such Category or sub-Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
then allocated to that Category or sub-Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   (1) Provision of foreign exchange by the Fund for
short-ter& financing of imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods, packaging materials and spare
parts of producers of non-traditional manufactured
exports and their domestic suppliers.
(2) Provision of foreign exchange by the Fund for
short-term financing of imports of recurrent
inputs required for the cultivation, harvesting,
handling and packaging of bananas for export.
(3) Establishment and operation by the Fund of a new
facility to provide foreign exchange for medium
term financing of permanent working capital and
equipment required by exporters of non-traditional
goods and their domestic suppliers to attain their
presently installed rated production capacity.
Part B:   (1) Further strengthening of JECIC's capacity to
manage export financing programs including provi-
sion of technical assistance for further training
of JECIC's staff, acquisition of an electronic
data processing system for its accounting function
and the Fund's operations and for the development
and operation of a management control, information
and performance evaluation system.
(2) Further strengthening of JNEC's capacity to provide
export marketing assistance to manufacturers
and exporters including provision of technical
assistance to JNEC to carry out the recommendations
of its programs of market research.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning January 1, 1986
through   January 1, 1998                 1,425,000
On July 1, 1998                                1,375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.70%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.20%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                     8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                     9.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         - day of A   --, 198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


