Document of
The World Bank                 FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3357-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 63.8 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US $72 MILLION)
TO INDIA
FOR THE
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 17, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 11, 1982)
Rs 1          =  Paise 100
US$1          =  Rs 9.406
Rs 1          =  US$0.1063
Rs 1 million  =  US$106,315
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.5,
which represents the projected average exchange rate over the disbursement
period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC      -    Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation
GOG      -    Government of Gujarat
GWSSB    -    Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board
PHES     -    Public Health Engineering Service
RMC      -    Rajkot Municipal Corporation
lcd      -    liters per capita per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLI
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:      The Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board (GWSSB)
and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC).
Amount:             SDR 63.8 million (US$72 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard.
Relending           India to Gujarat:  As part of Central assistance for
Terms:            State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
Gujarat to GWSSB: (a) For urban water supply and
sewerage, about US$31.8 million over 19 years including
four years of grace, at 8 1/2% interest per annum;
(b) for rural water supply, about US$19.6 million as a
grant; and (c) for relending to eligible property
owners to help meet the costs of connection to public
sewers, about US$2.4 million repayable over five years
at 6% interest per annum.
Gujarat to AMC: For urban sewerage about US$18.2
million over 19 years including four years of grace, at
8 1/2% interest per annum.
The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government of India.
Project             The construction of treatment, transmission and
Description:        distribution facilities to augment the supply of piped
water by about 118 million liters per day to the towns
of Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Godhra, Nadiad and Anand; the
improvement and extension of the sewerage systems in
the towns of Nadiad and Anand; the extension of the
sewerage system and treatment works in the AMC area and
the provision of a new sewerage system for the Rajkot
Municipal Corporation area and the town of Savarkundla.
Additionally, safe piped water will be provided to
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
about 365 problem villages, I/ consisting of seven
regional groupings of about 255 villages and about 110
individual villages. Low-cost sanitation will be
provided to 15 middle-sized towns. The project would
provide funds for technical support for all detailed
engineering works and for the development of a
comprehensive training program for the entire water
supply and sewerage sector of Gujarat and for improved
detection of water distribution system losses. The
development of GWSSB as an institution capable of
planning and implementing sectoral programs will be
fostered. The technical risks involved are no greater
than can normally be expected with operations of this
type. The project is complex and its timely execution
will require considerable management effort and input
coordination. Consequently, the possibility of delays
cannot be excluded. With appropriate consultant
assistance and adequate monitoring to ensure the
timeliness of financial and other resources, completion
of the project within the planned implementation period
would seem feasible.
1/ See footnote on page 11.



-lil-
Estimated Cost:
(US$ millions)
Local          Foreign         Total
Components
Urban Water Supply                          11.1              5.1           16.2
Sewerage                                    47.5             5.8           53.3
Urban Low-Cost Sanitation                    7.0               -             7.0
Rural Water Supply                          17.7             0.6            18.3
GWSSB & AMC Engineering and
Administrative Services                   10.5               -            10.5
Miscellaneous Equipment & Works              0.8                             0.8
Consultant Services (Engineering)            2.2               -             2.2
Training                                     0.8              0.2            1.0
Technical Assistance                         0.1               -             0.1
Loan Fund for House Connections              2.4              -              2.4
Land Acquisition                             0.8               -             0.8
Taxes and Duties                            13.1              - _13.1
Sub-total                             114.0            11.7          125.7
Physical Contingencies                       8.2              1.5            9.7
Price Contingencies                         22.5              3.9           26.4
Total Project Cost                         144.7            17.1           161.8
Project Cost Net of Taxes
and Duties                               131.6             17.1          148.7 1/
Financing Plan:
(US$ millions)
Local          Foreign         Total
IDA Credit                                  54.9            17.1           72.0
GOG Grant/Loans                             67.6              -             67.6
AMC Debentures                              13.6                            13.6
Local Contributions                          8.6              -              8.6
Total                                 144.7            17.1          161.8
1/ Includes construction costs (mainly headworks) amounting to
approximately US$4 million which are being financed under the on-going
(First) Gujarat Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN).



-iv-
Estimated                                           (US$ millions)
Disbursements:       IBRD FY            FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Annual              4.9    19.9    22.2    19.0        6.0
Cumulative          4.9    24.8    47.0    66.0    72.0
Rate of Return:  2.5%, based on incremental revenues in the eight project
towns.
Appraisal Report:  No. 3667b-IN, dated June 14, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 63.8 million
(US$72 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a water
supply and sewerage project in the State of Gujarat. The proceeds of the
credit would be channeled to the Government of Gujarat (GOG) in accordance
with the Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for the
financing of State development projects. GOG will relend US$31.8 million
equivalent of the credit to the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(GWSSB) for urban water supply and sewerage works over 19 years, including
four years of grace, at 8 1/2% interest per annum, and grant GWSSB US$19.6
million equivalent for rural water supply schemes proposed under the project.
GOG will also provide GWSSB with US$2.4 million equivalent as a loan
repayable over five years in equal monthly instalments at 6% interest per
annum to be relent to eligible property owners in the participating towns and
RMC to help meet the costs of connecting to the public sewerage system. The
balance of US$18.2 million equivalent will be relent to the Ahmedabad
Municipal Corporation (AMC) on the same terms and conditions as the loan to
GWSSB. The proposed relending rate of 8 1/2% per annum is comparable with
the current interest charged by financial institutions in India on loans for
similar purposes. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government
of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.       India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
701 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is
not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land.
Consequently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over the
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop
Development Project (No. P-3347-IN), dated June 7, 1982.



-2-
past 30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0%
per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices) from 60% to
about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In
the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to
increase agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating
persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled
from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment
rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a
few years in the late 1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time,
foreign savings are about 10% of investment. External assistance has been
low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external
assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end
of the 1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period.  In the early
to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain
output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production
in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst
drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices
and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a
decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe
inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price
stability. The impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian
economy, particularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be
needed for some years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is
almost completed and the economy has regained its growth momentum.



-3-
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear
evidence of a deceleration in inflation.
8.       1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well
and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal
and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As
constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued
to ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend
in inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average
annual basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less
than 2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions,
combined with a more restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp
decline in the rate of inflation.
9.       The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous
record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer
consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite
substantial price increases. Recent performance and probable future trends
suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the
balance remains delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to
time. Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being
felt in 1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild
depleted stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively low import requirement, the
ability of the Government to delay imports for as long as two years after the
production shortfall, and the decline in foodgrain prices in real terms
demonstrate the flexibility and resilience provided by the public foodgrain
system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation
in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly
to greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of
coal output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of
rail freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features
of the 1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy
production which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have



-4-
also been reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for
improving efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will
become increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip
the availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment
exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high
and further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be
increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the
Government has taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the
public sector. Principal among these were price and tax increases, and
subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities produced mainly in the public
sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign
sector. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL
imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated. Coupled with
domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors
caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in
1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit
rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in
export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse outcome. However,
the much improved performance of basic import-substituting industries and a
resumption of healthy export volume growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance
this gap in the face of inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government
drew down a record US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew
almost US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund
Facility, and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of
finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed
commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were
contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth.
In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation
and other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide
range of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response
to the present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not
reacted by placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has
maintained and extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several
years. Recent improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint
facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export and industrial
policy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.



-5-
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of
manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic
infrastructure -- irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and
ports -- is extensive compared to many countries, although there is
considerable need for additional capacity as well as improvement in the
utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water, and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good
economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its
long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development
objectives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about
halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy
development, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
performance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of continued
bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is growing. Moreover,
fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an acceleration of domestic
savings rates. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resources have
so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the
financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan investment,
if inflation can be kept in check. However, a significant shortfall in
savings is likely to occur in some states unless further measures are
introduced. There will be a need also for continuous efforts to maintain and
raise further the already high level of private savings. Recent increases in
interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits should stimulate such
savings. The further dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects
for which look bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched
the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As
demonstrated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors
can be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to
higher productivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the
same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of
tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the



-6-
requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and
long-term prospects. At present rates of development, however, an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will be difficult to
sustain. Performance in the power sector to date suggests that India's power
deficit will continue into the early 1990s, although more rapid project
implementation and efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For
railways, real investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections
and will need to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if
serious bottlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects
for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite
bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price
increases for petroleum products. On the production side, scheduled
expansion is expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current
46% to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of
exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake
from known fields offer much encouragement for India's longer term energy
prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a
record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by
the end of the year. At the same time, India also made use of the IMF
Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable debt service
profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial capital markets at
favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high underlying rates) and in
the last two years commercial borrowing has been stepped up. These sources
will be important in the future since India's current account deficits,
though not large relative to the size of the economy, will nevertheless be
large in absolute terms and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels
expected to be available from normal concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and
external balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balance of payments. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of
payments consequences of such a growth strategy. However, an important
element in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be
adequate flows of concessional assistance. Although India is currently in a
position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels
of the past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness in world markets.
Maintaining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as intended by the
Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level of commercial
borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher



-7-
levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a key element
in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness. India is still a
very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment
requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The fact that
India has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth
above the long term trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends
substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to
remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by
adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a
rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per
annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below
2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about
12 million higher than official projections. The fact that there was no
decline in inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2%
per annum, is a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this
rate of growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable
decline in the population growth rate has not materialized. Until full
details of the Census are released, firm judgements about the reasons for
this outcome are not possible. However, the results re-emphasize the need
for continuing efforts to strengthen the family planning program in a broad
range of activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in
the Sixth Plan which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in
the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to
over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living
standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of
the economy, particularly on increases in agricultural production and
employment, in non-farm rural employment, and also in employment
opportunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem in large
part from market forces which, however, must be encouraged and reinforced by
appropriate Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and
infrastructure. The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970
and 1981 resulting from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural
production, reflects such developments. There is also a role for direct
Government action in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through land redistribution is quite
limited in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small
farmers and rural artisans, and finally in broadening the provision of those
services which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living
standards. Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program,
which has been an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade.
Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the



-8-
extension of rural health facilities and the provision of secure village
water supplies. Operations such as the community health volunteer program
and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging evidence that
well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects
for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 development
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million has been
repaid, and US$5,254 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an increase of about
28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary
statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling US$176.5
million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid, US$42.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9 million,
US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A summary
statement of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included in Annex
II (page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase
agricultural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic
agricultural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing,
storage, and seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also
been directed at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while
curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks
which have hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power
generation and distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and
small-scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through
its support of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance
of improving the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural
populations, the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning
programs, a rural roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and
other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and
infrastructure development will appropriately contribute to India's
adjustment and growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support,
with emphasis on improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure
reliable delivery to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to
develop the large Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to
increase agricultural production. Important complements to these efforts,
such as fertilizer production and distribution, agricultural credit and



-9-
extension, will continue to receive support. A continued program of
investments aimed at rapidly increasing the domestic supply of energy will
clearly be necessary if India is to curb the cost of oil imports and
alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain output in both the
agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil and gas resources
is a central element of this program, which should be supplemented by
investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expansion of
the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to increase
the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short supply
and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also receive
high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transportation
infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher levels of
economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1981/82 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in
1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In
1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



-10-
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
29.        Although State Governments in India have primary responsibility
for the development of water supply and sewerage facilities, the Central
Government, through its Five-Year Plans and/or special programs, has
considerable influence on sector development. Funds are normally allocated
by the Government of India in the form of grants and loans which are
supplemented by funds obtained from a variety of sources by State and local
governments. The States execute their responsibilities through various
departments of government and agencies which, in turn, may delegate part or
all of their duties to local authorities. In certain cases, legislation has
been enacted to permit municipal authorities or other agencies to assume the
entire responsibility for planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance of water supply and sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
30.        Since the early 1950s, State Governments have endeavored to meet
the increasing sector demands caused by rapidly expanding population and
unprecedented rates of urban growth. However, competing demands for
resources by other sectors, lack of management and planning skills, shortages
of key materials and equipment, as well as foreign exchange constraints, have
resulted in only 1% to 2% of public expenditures being invested in the
sector.
31.        Based on 1975 statistics 1/ about 30% of India's total population
of 620 million had access to water supply of reasonable quality and about 20%
had acceptable means of sewage disposal. These levels were lower than
average levels for all developing countries in which water and waste disposal
services reached 38% and 33% of the population, respectively. While some
improvement in water supply services has been achieved in India, the
percentage of the population receiving waste disposal services has actually
declined.
32.        Very large investments (probably more than four times the  1971-75
levels 2/ would be necessary in developing countries in order for them to
meet the goals 3/ of the Drinking Water Decade by 1990. The investment for
urban water supply and sewerage in India in the Fifth Five-Year Plan period
(1974/75 - 1978/79) was some Rs 1,100 million (US$131 million) per year which
was only 1.5% of total Plan investment; annual investment in the rural water
supply sector in the same period was Rs 750 million (US$89 million) which was
1% of total Plan investment. Much higher investment levels will be necessary
if significant progress towards Decade targets is to be seriously attempted.
The Government of India (GOI) is committed to the objectives of the Drinking
1/ World Health Organization, Community Water Supply and Wastewater Dis-
posal, Mid-Decade Progress Report, May 1976.
2/ Report on Community Water Supplies, United Nations Water Conference, Mar
del Plata, Argentina, 14-25 March 1977.
3/ These goals are a 100% coverage of the population for urban and rural
water supply; 80% coverage for urban waste disposal and 25% coverage for
rural sanitation.



-1 1-
Water Decade, and in its Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81 - 1984/85) it has
allocated 4% of total Plan provision to the sector. Under the Plan, the
rural water supply sector will receive an average of Rs 4,300 million (US$505
million) per year, about 2.2% of the Plan, while the urban water supply and
sanitation sector will receive an average of Rs 3,500 million (US$411
million) per year, about 1.8% of the Plan. These figures represent
approximately four times and three times, respectively, the investments made
in the individual sectors under the previous Plan, and reflect the importance
which GOI attaches to the Decade program. GOI appreciates that the financial
demands of the program necessitate the use of low-cost techniques, both in
water supply and in sanitation, and has urged State Governments to adopt
these techniques where appropriate.  The efficient operation and effective
maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems has always presented a
serious challenge to Central and local government institutions.
Consequently, it is imperative that the increase in capital works occasioned
by the Decade program be accompanied by intensive training of personnel in
the sector in order to achieve a compatible standard of operational
competence.
33.        The State of Gujarat, located in the northwestern part of India,
covers an area of about 187,091 square kilometers, which is approximately
5.7% of the national territory. Its population is currently estimated to be
approximately 34 million, of which over 70% live in rural areas (18,275
villages) and the balance in about 216 cities and townships. Gujarat's
population density averages 164 persons per square kilometer, which is
somewhat lower than the overall average for India of 200 persons per square
kilometer.
34.        Although Gujarat's economy is primarily based on agriculture, from
which about 40% of its total income is derived, industry has been growing
rapidly in recent years. The per capita income (1977/78) in Gujarat of Rs
1,450 (US$171) compares favorably with the all-India average of Rs 1,022
(US$120) for the same period.   Three perennial rivers, the Narmada, Tapi and
Mahi, serve the water supply needs of Southern Gujarat, while numerous
smaller non-perennial rivers elsewhere are used for irrigation or combined
irrigation/water supply purposes. Groundwater availability is limited in
the State's western region, mainly due to its rocky stratum, and in the
coastal areas, on account of high salinity. More plentiful supplies of
groundwater are, however, available in the alluvial areas of northern
Gujarat, except for the semi-arid area of Kutch which is virtually without
any reliable source of water.
35.        Overall water service levels in Gujarat are far from satisfactory.
In particular, the rural population, which accounts for over 70% of the
total, has only limited access to safe drinking water. Approximately four
million people living in over 4,500 of Gujarat's 9,600 problem villages 1/
are supplied with safe water. In urban areas, the situation is slightly
better. Of Gujarat's 216 cities and towns, 49 still lack an organized water
1/ Villages without an assured safe water supply source within a distance
of 1.6 km from the village.



-12-
supply system; the balance enjoy a comparatively high coverage, although only
intermittent service is available at most places.
36.        Sewerage systems in Gujarat are less developed than water supply.
Three major cities (Baroda, Surat and Ahmedabad) operate extensive sewerage
systems with secondary treatment plants, while 19 more cities and towns are
partially sewered and have primary treatment facilities. Under a program
begun in 1964 to replace bucket latrines with water-seal latrines in all
eligible urban areas, some 76,400 out of 98,700 dry latrines have been
converted. Approximately 28% of all urban households are, however, still
without any facilities at all. Rural sanitation has so far been given little
consideration.
Sector Organization And Objectives
37.        With the exception of the Municipal Corporation areas of Baroda,
Rajkot, Ahmedabad and Surat, the responsibility for the planning, design and
construction of water supply and sewerage systems for the State of Gujarat
rests with the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board (GWSSB). GWSSB was
established in August 1979, under the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board
Act of 1978, to take over the functions of the Department of Public Health
Engineering Services (PHES) and operate as an autonomous body. However, PHES
continued its involvement in the execution of projects underway and it was
only on April 1, 1981, that GWSSB was vested with the entire function of
PHES.
38.        GWSSB is a corporate body with its Chairman and Board members
appointed by GOG. The Chairman serves full-time for a period of three years
and is required to have wide experience in a management or technical
capacity. Apart from the Chairman, the Board consists of a full-time
Member-Secretary, three ex-officio members and seven other members. The
Member-Secretary is a fully qualified engineer and acts as the Board's Chief
Executive Officer. The three ex-officio members are representatives of
concerned State Government departments. Of the other members, three are
nominated from among elected heads of local bodies and the remaining four are
selected for their expertise in the fields of economic or development
planning and engineering. For management purposes, GWSSB is divided into six
separate sections under specially designated officials covering:
(i) construction and, where necessary, the operation and maintenance of urban
and rural schemes for the Baroda and Ahmedabad circles; (ii) construction
and, where necessary, the operation and maintenance of urban and rural
schemes for the Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Palanpur circles; (iii) mechanical
engineering and procurement; (iv) design of urban and rural water supply and
urban sewerage schemes; (v) personnel and administration; and (vi) finance,
accounting and internal audit. The officers in charge of each of these
sections are responsible to the Member-Secretary, who in turn is responsible
to the Chairman.
39.        While GWSSB is empowered to finance, execute and commission water
supply and sewerage schemes, it generally leaves their operation and
maintenance to the respective local authorities, as was previously done by
PHES. The powers of the municipalities, and district and village panchayats
are covered by the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963, and the Gujarat



-13-
Panchayat Act, 1962, respectively. According to these Acts, they may set
their own tariffs subject to GOG approval.
40.        The municipal corporations (see para 37), established under the
Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949, function independently of
GWSSB. They design, construct, operate and maintain their own water supply
and sewerage systems. They are also responsible for financing construction,
and for billing and collection. They are empowered to set tariffs with GOG's
approval. The Corporations may, however, at their discretion use the
services of GWSSB. 1/
41.        Operation and maintenance of existing systems throughout the
sector is generally unsatisfactory, partly on account of organizational and
financial constraints, but to a greater extent due to the lack of adequately
trained staff. Standards are expected to improve with the establishment of
facilities for the training of staff at all levels within the sector in the
context of the proposed project.
42.        GOG's objective for its urban water supply sector is to provide
a domestic supply of about 140 liters per capita per day (lcd) to connected
consumers and 45 lcd to standpost users so that existing levels of water
supply in urban areas would keep pace with population growth. Under the
proposed project for the towns of Nadiad, Anand and Bhavnagar, where an
adequate supply of water is assured, these objectives are likely to be
realized for a period up to the end of this century. The towns of Jamnagar
and Godhra, which have access to limited allocations of water from irrigation
sources at present, will also benefit by an increased supply over the same
time period, though not to the level envisaged by GOG. New irrigation
sources expected to be developed over the next decade are, however, likely to
provide the necessary additional quantities of water required for these
towns.
43.        In the rural areas, GOG expects to be able to supply consumers
with between 40 and 70 lcd of water through standposts. In keeping with the
goals of the Drinking Water Decade, GOG's short-term objective is to ensure
that at least 50% of all problem villages (see para 35) are supplied with
piped water systems and the other 50% with hand pump systems by the year
1990. The provision of water-borne sewerage presents a more serious problem
to GOG on account of the heavy capital cost involved. Consequently, GOG's
objective is to emphasize the use of low-cost sanitation techniques in
preference to the wide-scale provision of water-borne sewerage in order to
cope with the pressing problem of urban sanitation. However, in Class I
towns 2/ and some smaller towns with well established water-borne facilities
or where geological conditions render low-cost sanitation techniques
inappropriate, GOG will continue to pursue the objective of providing
water-borne sewerage.
1/ The Municipal towns of Bhavnagar and Jamnagar have recently been accorded
Corporation status. Nevertheless, GWSSB will implement-their components
under the proposed project.
2/ Towns with a population of 100,000 or more.



-14-
Sector Investment
44.        GOG's investments in water supply and sewerage through its
Department of Public Health Engineering Services over the Fifth Plan Period
(1974/75 - 1978/79) was approximately Rs 466 million (US$55 million) or about
3% of total Plan outlays, giving an annual average investment of
approximately US$11 million. Investment levels in water supply and sewerage
in the Sixth Plan period (1980/81 - 1984/85) are expected to rise to about 6%
of total Plan outlays and would amount to about Rs 1,508 million (US$177
million), or approximately US$35 million per year. Whereas the total
investment in urban water supply and sewerage in the Sixth Plan shows a
modest increase (US$3 million) over that of the Fifth Plan period, projected
investments in rural water supply (US$41.3 million) show a marked increase to
almost double the already substantial amount previously allocated to this
sector.
45.        A sector study prepared by the World Bank/WHO Cooperative Program
in late 1978, examined in detail the status of the sector and identified
priorities for future investments in the context of the State's Sixth Plan
and GOG's objectives for the sector. The proposed project package submitted
to IDA for financing meets with GOG's sectoral objectives and forms a
substantial part of the State's Sixth Plan.
Previous Bank Group Involvement in Gujarat
46.        The Bank Group's involvement in Gujarat began with the provision
in 1961 of US$4.5 million in financing for the construction of the Shetrunji
irrigation canal system (Credit No. 13-IN). However, due to inadequate
agricultural support services and lagging construction of field channels and
drains by farmers, the project failed to achieve its full agricultural
potential, leading GOI, the State Governments and the Bank Group to orient
their concept of sound irrigation development towards a more integrated
approach. The Kadana Irrigation Project in Gujarat (Credit No. 176-IN of
February 9, 1970) for US$35 million was the first of a second generation of
Bank Group-financed irrigation projects in India designed to avoid the
weaknesses encountered by the earlier projects like Shetrunji. Besides the
traditional irrigation infrastructure, this project included command area
development--in particular construction of field channels, drains and
landshaping, financed through institutional credit--the construction of
market roads, and an agricultural support program. This project was
completed about two years behind schedule due to two severe floods, which
disrupted dam construction. The Project Completion Report on this project
emphasizes the lessons learned in implementing it as the need for better
operational practices for the irrigation system, and better water conveyance
to the farmgate for the provision of a timely and reliable water supply.
These shortcomings were in fact identified during the project implementation
stage and corrective measures have been incorporated in the design of a third
generation of Bank Group-financed irrigation projects in India since 1974.
The Project Performance Audit Report on the Kadana Irrigation Project has
indicated that this project suffered a 100% cost overrun due mainly to higher
dam construction costs, which rose from US$18.5 million at appraisal to
US$90.5 million. The factors which account for this were, among others,
inflation, design changes, modifications required due to unexpected



-15-
geological problems, higher outlays for land acquisition as well as maximum
flood underestimation, and termination of works by the originally selected
contractor.  Nevertheless, the project was able to obtain an economic rate of
return of only one percentage point below the appraisal estimate of 14% due
to substantial grain price increases which offset the 100% cost overrun.
47.         In 1978, the Bank Group financed the (First) Gujarat Irrigation
Project (US$85 million credit of July 17, 1978; Credit No. 808-IN) which
provides for the construction of about 20 new and modernization of about ten
existing medium irrigation systems located throughout the State. A Second
Gujarat Irrigation Project (US$175 million credit of May 12, 1980; Credit No.
1011-IN) finances a five-year time slice of Gujarat's irrigation investment
program including the construction of three on-going major irrigation
schemes, modernization of parts of the State's largest existing irrigation
scheme (Ukai-Kakrapar), reclamation of coastal lands and construction of
irrigation facilities in the coastal areas of the Saurashtra peninsula. The
Bank Group has been directly involved in groundwater development in Gujarat
through the Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project (Credit No. 191-IN of June 3,
1970, US$35 million), which was fully disbursed in 1975. A project
completion report found that about 81,000 farms representing a total
population of 480,000 benefitted directly from the minor irrigation component
of the project, rather than 25,000 farms as estimated at appraisal. The
overall economic rate of return for the project's minor irrigation component
was 28%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 23%.  Finally, the Gujarat
Community Forestry Project (US$37 million credit of April 14, 1980; Credit
No. 961-IN) provides funds to help increase the supplies of fuelwood in rural
areas of each of the State's nineteen districts. This project is making good
progress, although implementation of village woodlot schemes has been slower
than expected.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.         The proposed project was prepared by GWSSB and AMC with assistance
from Bank staff and consultants and was appraised in June 1981. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 3667b-IN dated June 14, 1982, is being distributed
separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears as Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May/June 1982, with Mr. S. P. Bajpai
of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of
the Indian Delegation.
Project Description
49.         The proposed project would be implemented over four and a half
years and forms a substantial portion (40%) of GOG's water supply and
sewerage program through fiscal year 1986/87. The project would consist of
the following:
(a) the treatment, transmission and distribution of an additional
118 million liters per day of piped water to five large towns (Bhavnagar,
Jamnagar, Godhra, Nadiad and Anand);
(b) the improvement and extension of the sewerage systems in two
of the above towns (Nadiad and Anand);



-16-
(c) the extension of the sewerage system and treatment works in
the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation area;
(d) the provision of a new sewerage system for the Rajkot
Municipal Corporation area and for the town of Savarkundla;
(e) the provision of piped water supplies to about 365 "problem"
villages consisting of seven regional groupings of about 255 villages and 110
individual villages; and
(f) a low-cost sanitation component for 15 middle-sized towns
identified under the UNDP Global Low-Cost Sanitation Project.
50.        In addition, the project would also provide for technical support
for the detailed engineering works for all project components and for the
development of a comprehensive training program. The project also provides
for improved detection of distribution system losses. By 1986/87,
approximately one million people in the urban areas and about half a million
in the rural areas covered by the project would receive an improved supply of
safe water through private connections and public standposts. The sewerage
and sanitation components would cover only the congested areas of the project
cities and towns where the conservancy system is predominantly used.
Approximately three million people would benefit directly or indirectly from
improved sewerage services.
Project Implementation
51.        GWSSB would be responsible for implementing the project, except
for the AMC component which would be implemented by the Ahmedabad Municipal
Corporation under a separate Project Agreement. As the Rajkot Municipal
Corporation (RMC) is inadequately staffed and lacks experience to undertake
the construction of its own sewerage system, GWSSB would implement this
component of the project as well. A separate agreement between them sets out
the terms and conditions under which GWSSB would be provided with funds to
construct the new sewerage system and receive reimbursement from RMC for the
completed works. As the GWSSB component of the project is complex and its
timely execution would require considerable management effort and input
coordination, an adequately structured project team has been established to
undertake this task. GWSSB would continue to maintain this team during the
project period. (Section 3.04 (a) of the GWSSB Project Agreement).
52.        GWSSB and AMC would implement their components of the project with
consultant assistance in detailed engineering design and construction
supervision using the services of consultants already employed by GWSSB, AMC
and RMC for project feasibility studies. Consultant services have also been
engaged by AMC and GWSSB for studies of: (i) management, organization and
staffing, and the development and implementation of project monitoring
systems and administrative procedures; (ii) the establishment and
implementation of commercial accounting and financial management information
systems, and (iii) the development of tariff structures and levels based on
appropriate socio-economic studies. GWSSB would also engage the services of
a specialist training consultant by October 1, 1982, to propose a
comprehensive scheme of staff training on a State-wide basis (see para 55).



-17-
By October 1, 1982, GWSSB would also engage a consultant to study the
organization and management of the water supply and sewerage division of RMC
(Section 2.04 of the GWSSB Project Agreement). IDA would review the findings
of similar studies presently underway for GWSSB and AMC by October 31, 1983
and June 30, 1983, respectively, and thereafter implement those
recommendations that are mutually agreed upon (Section 3.07 of the GWSSB
Project Agreement and Section 3.03 of the AMC Project Agreement).
53.        Under the project, the beneficiary local authorities in the urban
areas would operate and maintain the water supply and sewerage systems
constructed for them by GWSSB. As the problem villages lack suitably trained
staff, GOG has decided that GWSSB would operate and maintain all regional and
individual rural water supply systems in the problem villages on a State-wide
basis. Consequently, GWSSB would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of all schemes to be constructed in the project villages. In the
individual villages, however, GWSSB would use the services of local staff and
would ensure that the staff of panchayats responsible for operating the
individual rural water supply schemes are adequately trained for the purpose
(Section 2.06 of the Gujarat Agreement). In order to ensure maximum
utilization of the proposed sewerage facilities, the project provides for the
mandatory connection of consumers located in close proximity to the sewerage
system. To help the poorer sections of the community meet the costs of
connection to the water supply and sewerage system, credit would be provided
on easy terms through a loan fund established under the project.
(Section 3.05 of the GWSSB Project Agreement and Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the
Gujarat Agreement).
Low-Cost Sanitation
54.       The UNDP Global Low-Cost Sanitation Project, executed by the World
Bank, was designed with a view to providing developing countries with an
inexpensive means of sewage disposal as an alternative to the provision of
capital-intensive water-borne sewerage. In June 1979, GOI requested
assistance under the UNDP Project in preparing low-cost waterseal latrine
feasibility studies in seven States, including Gujarat, in an effort to speed
up the achievement of its Drinking Water Decade goal of 80% waste disposal
coverage in urban areas by the year 1990. Under the UNDP project, 15
medium-sized target towns with populations ranging from 9,000 to 120,000
(total population 0.6 million) were selected in Gujarat, of which two-thirds
have no house latrine facilities at all. Under the proposed project, as a
first stage (1982 - 1986), GOG expects to reduce the backlog of houses with
no latrine facilities by half, giving a 61% overall coverage of the target
towns. Approximately 95% of the facilities provided in these towns would be
individual household latrines, supplemented by community latrines in
low-income and slum areas. GWSSB would be responsible for implementing this
component of the project and would establish a project cell to provide for
its overall management by January 1, 1983 (Section 3.04 (b) of the GWSSB
Project Agreement). The latrines to be constructed would be the pour-flush,
waterseal type discharging into underground leaching pits. Construction of
these pits would be regulated, confining their use to areas where pollution
of groundwater sources would not present a problem. Each participating local
authority would be required to pass by-laws for this purpose as a condition



-18-
of disbursement 1/ of its portion of the credit allocated to this component.
(Section 2.05 of the Gujarat Agreement and Para 4 (c) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement). GOG would provide a 50% grant to cover the
cost of either conversion or construction, the balance being provided out of
local authority funds (30%) and an initial 20% down payment by participating
householders.  The Harijan community would be given a 100% grant, 75% of
which would be provided by GOG and the balance by the local authorities
concerned, in accordance with State Government policy. Since making even the
initial 20% down payment may prove to be overly burdensome to some
participating householders, GOG has already provided for assistance in the
form of soft loans or grants.
Training
55.        There are currently no organized training facilities available in
Gujarat to serve the needs of its water supply and sewerage sector. The
principal sources of training for State water supply sector staff are the
facilities made available through the program of national courses provided by
GOI's Central Public Health Engineering and Environmental Organization, and
to a lesser extent by its National Environmental Research Institute.
Inevitably, the number of State water supply sector staff that can be trained
under these circumstances is extremely small, and the course content too
generalized with a bias towards the more specialized needs of managerial and
professional level staff. GWSSB presently has a sanctioned labor force of
approximately 4,000, in addition to 3,000 or so technical, administrative and
financial staff; the participating local authorities account for another
6,500, and AMC a further 1,300. GWSSB's staff needs alone are expected to
rise by another 7,900 over the period 1982 to 1990. It is of major
importance to the sector that after the commissioning of works, adequately
trained staff should be available to ensure the proper operation and
maintenance of the newly constructed systems. Consequently, the project
provides for a training program which GWSSB would prepare by June 30, 1983
using the services of a training consultant (see para 52). The program,
which would take into consideration existing and projected sector manpower
and training needs, would be initiated by January 1, 1984 (Sections 2.04 and
3.09 of the GWSSB Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
56.        The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$162 mil].on
equivalent, including about US$13.1 million in taxes and duties and US$1!-
million in foreign costs. The components, net of contingencies, are urbda
water supply (US$16.2 million), urban sewerage (US$53.3 million, of which
US$26.4 million and US$16.5 million represent the cost of the sewerage
components of AMC and RMC, respectively), low-cost sanitation (US$7.0
million), rural water supply (US$18.3 million), GWSSB and AMC engineering
costs (US$10.5 million), consultants' services, technical assistance and
training (US$3.3 million), loan fund for house connections (US$2.4 million),
land acquisition (US$0.8 million) and miscellaneous equipment and works
1/ This condition would be deleted if it is met before the signing of the
Development Credit Agreement.



-19-
(US$0.8 million). Physical contingencies amount to approximately US$9.7
million, while price contingencies of US$26.4 million are based on annual
price increases of 8.5% for 1982/83, 7.5% for 1983/86, and 6% for1986/90 for
civil works, local equipment and materials. For foreign equipment and
materials, contingencies of 8.5% for 1982/83, 7.5% for 1983/86, and 6% for
1986/90 have been used.   Approximately 1,300 man-months of local consultancy
services would be needed for the project. These services would be required
to carry out detailed design for the engineering works for GWSSB, RMC and
AMC, and the studies of RMC organization and management and sector manpower
and training needs (see paras 52 and 55). Neither GWSSB nor the municipal
corporations (RMC and AMC) have enough staff to be able to undertake these
activities themselves. The average man month cost including salary, fees and
subsistence is expected to be about US$2,000. In addition to these personnel
costs, the contract cost for consultants would include the cost of local
transportation and local office operating expenses.
57.        The proposed credit of US$72 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of project costs, net of duties and taxes and excluding
approximately US$4.0 million of capital contributions to sub-projects being
executed under the on-going Bank Group-financed (First) Gujarat Irrigation
Project which would benefit the proposed project (see paras 47 and 60). GOG
will on-lend US$34.2 million of the credit to GWSSB and provide GWSSB with
about US$19.6 million as a grant with the balance of US$18.2 million being
relent to AMC to help finance construction of their respective components.
The credit would finance all foreign exchange costs and US$54.9 million of
local costs. The balance of funding required for the project (approximately
US$89.8 million) would be made up as follows: GOG grant to GWSSB for rural
water supply, low-cost sanitation and sewerage for RMC (US$41.2 million),
GOG loans to AMC and GWSSB, including funds for RMC (US$26.4 million), AMC
debentures (US$13.6 million) and local contributions (US$8.6 million). To
ensure timely project implementation, and to enable the early hiring of
consultants for the detailed engineering design work and construction
supervision for the whole project, retroactive financing of up to US$2.35
million would be provided from August 15, 1981 to the date of the Credit
signing. Retroactive financing would also be provided from February 1, 1981
to cover the cost of essential hydrogeological investigations (about
US$150,000) undertaken before the 1981 monsoon period began (para 4 (a) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.        Contracts for equipment and materials, estimated at about US$18.0
million including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines
for procurement. A preference margin of 15% or the current import duty,
whichever is lower, would be granted to local manufacturers in bid
evaluation. Other contracts for equipment and materials would involve either
small items (below US$150,000) which cannot readily be grouped into larger
bulk contracts and are more suitable for decentralized procurement, or items
unsuitable for ICB because of high transportation costs and/or high risk of
damage in transit (eg. concrete, asbestos cement and stoneware pipes). These
contracts, with a total value estimated at about US$27.9 million would be



-20-
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with GOG
local bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
59.        The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
US$75.0 million, including contingencies. Most civil works would consist of
a large number of relatively small contracts (none expected to exceed US$4.5
million in value), which are widely dispersed throughout the project area, do
not require any special equipment or techniques, are labor-intensive, and are
traditionally carried out by registered contractors established in Gujarat or
other Indian States. These works, which include water distribution mains,
sewers, sewage pumping stations and sewage treatment facilities, would not
attract foreign bidders since it is clear that overseas firms could not
successfully compete with local bidders for works of this type and size. All
contracts for civil works and most of the contracts for equipment and
materials are likely to be won by local contractors.
60.        The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100% of the
cost of directly imported equipment and materials; 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured goods; 40% of the ex-factory cost of locally
procured equipment and materials; 40% of the cost of civil works and 100% of
the cost of consultants' services, loan fund expenditures, the
hydrogeological investigations and training. No disbursements would be made
against administrative costs, or against capital contributions to
sub-projects to be executed in connection with this project (mainly
headworks) which are already being financed under the ongoing (First) Gujarat
Irrigation Project (Credit No. 808-IN). Disbursements against civil works
for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 300,000 (about US$35,300)
for material and equipment contracts for payments not exceeding Rs 150,000
(about US$17,650) and for loan fund expenditures on house connections would
be on the basis of Statements of Expenditure. The supporting documentation
for these expenditures would be subject to local audit and would be retained
for inspection by review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for
all other items would be fully documented.
The Financial Position of Project Entities
61.        Participating municipalities, including the Municipal Corporations
of Rajkot and Ahmedabad, have traditionally followed the practice of
maintaining their accounts on a simple cash basis in accordance with accepted
government practice. These cash records, however, do not provide adequate
financial data to evaluate performance.   A restatement of their accounts in
a commercial manner indicates that during the fiscal years 1977/78 through
1980/81, revenues from water supply and sewerage operations in urban areas
under the project have been inadequate to cover costs.  The deficit for the
services provided by the six participating municipalities and RMC amounted to
approximately Rs 18.8 million (US$2.2 million) and by AMC to Rs 40.5 million
(US$4.8 million) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1981. The
municipalities, AMC and RMC have traditionally resorted to cross-sector
subsidization to cover the deficits in their recurring costs, while operating
deficits in the rural areas have been met through GOG and local funds.



-21-
Tariffs
62.        In order to help develop a financially viable public utility
service under the project, GOG has agreed to gradually increase its water
supply and sewerage charges, thereby avoiding any precipitous change from its
traditional policy of cross-subsidization. Accordingly, effective April 1,
1983, the revenues through direct user charges from all municipalities
including AMC would be doubled through the imposition of higher tariffs.
Thereafter, appropriate revenue increase and/or cost reduction policies would
be applied so as to ensure that in accordance with an agreed schedule,
revenues collected should enable the participating municipalities, RMC and
AMC to cover their operation and maintenance costs and depreciation by
March 31, 1988, and by March 31, 1993, to meet their costs of operation and
maintenance plus debt service. Meanwhile, a specific proportion of GOG's
general revenues would be earmarked to cover estimated shortfalls in revenues
required to cover the costs of operating and maintaining these systems plus
debt service (Section 3.03 of the Gujarat Agreement and Section 4.03 of the
AMC Project Agreement). With the introduction of the new tariff policy, the
participating municipalities should be able to move towards a sound financial
position for their operations. Projections indicate that AMC's water supply
and sewerage operations are expected to produce positive financial rates of
return on average net plant in operation of 5.1%, 6%, and 8.6% for the fiscal
years 1986/87, 1987/88 and 1988/89, respectively. The other project towns
will cover their operation and maintenance costs, including depreciation, by
fiscal year 1987/88. Complete coverage of their operation, maintenance and
debt service costs is anticipated by fiscal year 1992/93. To protect the
future viability of their water supply and sewerage services, the project
towns, RMC and AMC would not incur any long-term debt unless their overall
operating surplus before depreciation for the most recent fiscal year is at
least 1.3 times the maximum debt service requirement in any succeeding year
(Section 3.05 of the Gujarat Agreement and Section 4.05 of the AMC Project
Agreement).
63.       In rural areas, established GOG practice for its regional water
supply schemes in problem villages has been to limit local authority
contributions towards the costs of operation and maintenance of standpipe
services to Rs 3/- (US$0.35) per capita per year and to cover the balance of
costs through a GOG grant. In the case of individual schemes in problem
villages, which are no less complicated and expensive to operate and
maintain, GOG requires that the village panchayats bear the full costs
involved. This anomalous situation has been resolved in the context of this
project with a GOG decision to levy a uniform per capita annual contribution
of Rs 6 (US$0.70) from both regional and individual local authorities in the
problem villages and make the balance of funds to meet their operation and
maintenance costs available from its existing ten percent surcharge on sales
tax (Section 3.06 of the Gujarat Agreement). Nevertheless, during the
project implementation period (1982/83 through 1986/87) approximately Rs 75
million (about US$8.8 million) of funds would have to be provided by GOG to
cover the operating deficits for the rural water supply schemes. Comparative
figures for the municipalities, RMC and AMC together have been estimated at
about Rs 385 million (about US$45.3 million).
64.        To meet project requirements, GOG has already appointed
consultants to design and install a commercial accounting and financial



-22-
management system for GWSSB, the municipalities, RMC and AMC. For the rural
areas, the system to be installed by GWSSB would be a simplified version of
the commercial accounting system which could be maintained with limited
effort. System designs have already been completed, manuals prepared and the
bulk of the training completed. The system has been operative in all project
towns, RMC and AMC from April 1, 1982 for their existing services and the
financial results would be available from fiscal year 1982/83 onwards
(Section 3.01 of the Gujarat Agreement and Section 4.01 of the AMC Project
Agreement). Billing and collection practices will be closely monitored and
the present annual billing period shortened. Billings will be consistent
with meter readings where metered water is supplied. As a measure of
adequacy of collection performance by March 31, 1986, all participating
municipalities, RMC and AMC would be required to maintain their end-fiscal
year unpaid customer billing balances at an amount not exceeding 30% of
annual billings for these services (Section 3.04 of the Gujarat Agreement and
Section 4.04 of the AMC Agreement).
Benefits
65.        The project would provide an improved water supply service to
approximately one million people by 1986/87 in the five towns to be served.
The population provided with sewerage in the towns of Savarkundla, Nadiad
and Anand and the cities of Rajkot and Ahmedabad would increase by 35% from
approximately 2.2 million (1980/81) to about 3.0 million (1986/87).
Moreover, the population already provided with sewerage services in these
towns under existing overloaded systems would also benefit from the increased
capacity made available by the proposed facilites. The low-cost sanitation
program will benefit about 40% of the 0.6 million population in the 15
medium-sized towns. The 255 villages in the seven regional village groupings
and the 110 individual villages covered by the project presently served with
unsafe water drawn from wells and other occasional sources will receive a
constant supply of between 40 and 70 lcd of safe piped water through
standposts which would be adequate to meet domestic needs. The population
served in these villages will be approximately 0.5 million by 1986/87.
66.        The average cost for water supply and sewerage varies
significantly between the six towns and the two municipal corporations under
the project. All feasible alternatives have been examined and options costed
to determine the least-cost solutions that would be pursued. The design of
water distribution and sewerage collection systems has been computer-
programmed to define the most economic network having regard to configuration
and pipe size. A rate of return based only on incremental revenues as a
result of investments in the eight project towns has been calculated to be
about 2.5%.
67.        The rate of return as calculated excludes benefits which cannot be
meaningfully quantified. For example, the amount by which consumers value
additional consumption above the price paid for additional water in the urban
areas is not included. Other non-quantifiable benefits that have been
disregarded include increases in labor productivity and employment
opportunities, increases in property values, the promotion of economic
development and the reduction in incidence of water-borne diseases. The
provision of water supplies in rural areas would in particular help to
alleviate the hardship, drudgery and disease which result from the present



-23-
arrangements for water supply and release a significant manpower input for
more productive functions which would help to enhance family incomes. The
availability of safe water and proper sanitation facilities would improve
environmental quality and health conditions thus improving productivity and
reducing medical costs. Industrial development, too, would be stimulated
with the provision of adequate supplies of water, thus creating additional
employment opportunities.
Health Impact
68.        With the more uniform distribution of piped water, improved
pressures and longer supply hours in urban areas, the incidence of
water-related diseases should decline, particularly among consumers using
public standposts. Health benefits in the rural areas will be even more
marked. The high salt content in water obtained from present sources, which
accounts for the high incidence of kidney stones and scabies in rural areas,
and the prevalence of guinea worm will be reduced significantly over time.
Improvements and extensions to the sewage collection systems will prevent
contamination of streets, footpaths, dwelling areas and water courses which
presently occur when sewage flows exceed the capacity of the system.
69.        Additionally the project would develop GWSSB's capability in
planning and executing programs through the provision of training of all
categories of its staff including its technical and administrative personnel.
The project would also help to foster the practices and concepts of sound
engineering, cost recovery and efficiency pricing in the public sector.
Project Risks
70.        The risks involved in the project are no greater than can normally
be expected with operations of this type. The project is complex and its
timely execution will require considerable management effort and input
coordination; consequently, the possibilities of delays occurring cannot be
excluded. With appropriate consultant assistance and adequate monitoring to
ensure the timeliness of financial and other resources, completion of the
project within the planned implementation period would seem likely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
71.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association and
India, the draft Gujarat Agreement between the Association and the State of
Gujarat, the draft GWSSB Project Agreement between the Association and the
Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the draft AMC Project Agreement
between the Association and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d), of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors
separately.
72.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement by GWSSB with RMC and
each of the Project Towns and the passage of by-laws by each of the selected
towns providing for regulations governing the construction of low-cost
sanitation units will be a condition of disbursement for their respective



-24-
components of the Project (Schedule 1, para 4 (b) and (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
73.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 17, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TA8LE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIWUTCD AV-ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     HDST RECENT ISTINATh-
TOTAL           3287.6                                NDST RECENT       LOW INC0IE             MIDDL  INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  ASLA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US0)                  60.0       100.0     190.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1       152.5     241.8             499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.   D-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      22.0              17.3                    40.8
pOPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     974.70
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER  SQ.  DEN.                   132.3       166.6    200.5              153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7       308.0    355.8              360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1        42.4      41.1              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8        54.7      56.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YES. AND ABOVE                   3.1         2.9       2.9               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.2         40.3      34.0              27.7                   29.7
CHUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         2.8       2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0               2
uSERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..        12.0      22.6              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      93.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTElNS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0      13.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.1        20.4      14.8              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2         47.5      51.9              57.7                   66.0
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       134.0     125.0              89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTALATO                                      17.0      33.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                               *'         6.0      20.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                   87 18.0  20.0     17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION  PER PHYSICIAN         4850.4/c    4889.0   3617.4             3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION  PER NURSING  PERSON   9630.0Th    8296.5   6429.4             6411.8                  2229.7
POPULATION  PER HOSPITAL  BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1            1132.8                  588.5
URbAN                               ..          ..    363.5              322.3                  579.6
hURAL                               ..          ..  10429.1             5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS  PER  HOSPITAL  BED        ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE  OP  HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
UREAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER BF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                              2.6         2.8
RURAL                              2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASLA S PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ArJUlIW  ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0         73.0       79.0               85.9                    99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0               94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                40.0          56.0       63.0               64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0       28.0               38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0               34.6/aa                 58.4
FEMALE                 10.0         15.0       18.0               18.0/aa                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY)   8.0             1.0        1.0                3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0        41.0        41.0               32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0         ,                19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.4       36.0               52.8                     86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7          1.1        1.3                1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5               35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.0          0.0        1.0                3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GLNERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.9               14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3        3.8                3.4                     4.3
CANOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4       31.9               29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0       71.0               69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0               14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6         40.3       38.9               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0         52.6       51.3               51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2         27.1       25.7               23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.1        1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6.7/e      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.27e    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTI&ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PEE CAFITA)
JRBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0              134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..      114.0              111.6                   193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                 ..                   249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                 ..                   234.3
ESTIMATEU POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ,,           ,,       40.3               41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.7               51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicator. depends on availability of data and iC not uniforo.
/aa  China inclded in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
aEpLInTtOctS OF SOCIAL, lUgXCfflILt
Note.:  Although the date are drouf. tre  eo            ..a gnrll1y judged the  -a  a-tboritattee ad reLiable  is should alao be noted that theY maY nob nt
.atioculy  coparable because of the lock of stuodoolodi.da Itttnead -cncpt. ucad by diflastce-                         esi   uleta  the date.  The detes., note-..
easulodecbth  ordere  f neunt-de, indicate treoda, end chractr te  c-etat  mains dtffaraatma be--s otarga
The reerencegroupsore '1 th  ease countr .ncup ci the cub lati coun.try a.d (21 e c-ntY greAt nigh ane htbigh.e  Jo.a-ncm   thus abs, c.usty grouP
of the aubu cec-nry fencpt for 'CepAta  turlna. 011 rEPorters"  -c ner  "Minddla ta-m  Un-ti Afrae ted Middl  teat  ta ch-ca  kacanas If etonga
coct-culura  affInl tea.  I  the referen.ce grout data the avrges ar  popuIlaion nsiglcsd mIct tae.,in  mahldaao  a                          h oe  osly nhat
ealoray of the,onrc   cegoybaatfrtstIndicato.   SInce th                               ..veag  of tenrr  aogteanaaoednpsad  enh.c  -allbility ot data
and I!t_nu  untIere  cauion teat be onacied In  nclgesae.ottecd  aorc   nna      heIaaae   r   nl   sfla   opaIgtevlso
1.01D AElIt  fibe...and co.ke.)                                   ~12ieIatl                                      - perfepilnl Be-toa,  cat,td cra~l    Pplte    tnl
Tottl1 - Tota  eon face  -resc     tylulc  lord oree nod  .lttladnees.ubn.  edrnlfdvddbytatrAono   ues                                                              aitlbde
Agncetue1-     -  aEatro of ogolceltuc l are  used aspy-taly or p...eanaIlly                       aeablaf Ln pablic and private gacalad apttalee  hopIelan
for crps. pa--ra  market end kitchen gandeon enro ls  fallen: 1978 den.hbttaonrnet..  liopittle ac   cacahmnepraenl   tt
GfNP PERf CAPITA (US$) - GNP par cay Ic   altsa  crr-it naPk t prices, cal-                          011cr   raotacudd                 ua  hoeptIas  hoaoa,aelud  bat1th
cclatnd by  -ut -crico serbhd Ia We-1d took Atlas  19771-79 beeiel; 1960.                          en  mdIa  cnnrac   prmnety anffad by aphYetn1ie  (but by
dation and p-oode a Ie1tasd rang o.f maictl  f -1          s     Cn   ttic-
LERiCY _CONSUMPTION _PEa 007110 -  uua ... I   ump....  efO cetecilrnry(oL                           tina1 Pparus  cohenb.  hoe~pitels laclu~ds Wills             hr,algtne   cpitale1,
end llglne. ptrolecn. natual gusend byno-. nCler nd getenlee-ed noelboPttl.1                                 elorrea  beeIpitlean  mdia   ed  _enari ty
Irtear if en   Lognene of coa  equ_calon  Pen ceplt; 1960. 1970, end 1979                          cette       pcrlellee   btaplttuL  ens i-cladd only undar ntatl.
data.                                                                                            Admiseions per Hoeitlv lad  - Tutel nosban of ad.lca.ne to or diechergnm
mum  hoapitala dtotdd by abs number of bda.
POPCLAI,letAol VITAI ISToTISTICS
T-1u Pepulonor  Mdlen  tuun.  - oA. of July 1; 1960, 1910, and 1979                            IlilItl
dana.                                                                                           nsAge Sle  of toucebld oreP         eca.....rd.- onl.ubet. end rural -
Irbon Poulonco  lorcon  of ttal) R-tarl  of octe  notee Lvce  o                          A icoeshold  on.lac o  n  nu   fidividual. nb:aat  litng qeater
fafieent dfinitIota  f orban uras my  feCcaahIIyofdt                                  eI their mea  stale.A boade  orldgr y or -y not be  -Inclded In
e     _nounieo; 1911  170  0    91  den.                                                    the ,Icncabt,otsaneiolprpaa
Ponulantnin. .ee  2000 - Cur-eCrpp11 ore    -e njccel... ore :bus  o19                           hrfpesnpaneM  in alluran  andruaucpidronin
real _cln_o  b   gead_n  an   hi   etlIyad fertIIt   rate.                                    dalnseepcti_ly.  la_1l1iga a_oco-amnatnntrcn
Prolctlcpareeren   tennnia eryaneaonplir o  tbr        iftyeaaun                  arupad Parts.
Irbi nenoy a   et   tttrnnaattgnl         coutrys tpr c-ln .nn ......                     tot   tcnlity (Plos...ntf d-celiee-toa,ubnadrrl-
leel  ad fm                 ... urceoy acbiIlut1.   er.Tepr-C-arnt-n1 d-cl1inge crtic IsClcnntmyinltg   .uater  a. percntge
n   Ltt  o  fertlIty tera,   ebo h -bthre  Lec-Laoeev  declint1 Lin                        of nn-1, urban, end rural deel m          aP.naay
f..rtfl Y u-eodi.9I.ge  f- en  1n-1 aod Poet really plan..inp p-nforn-e
tEch reentry In   . tboategood eve of theaa dida  -ebi-Inten   of  -ortlty                rDUCATION
on:d feteIley  _reda for  "r,nnn P"'oea                                                       Adjuated Einn 1-at Rat"os
ran    eaat    hIsI   rhno    nl   i Lferiiy rer   el              oprimay erhool-ag   ppuov tre  eral    Inlde   hildren aged 6-I
n _ rplaen  lu_       o L_ I-v tn   endft    ae   1roebgnrto                                   yaort bun  fdoc d fo  differ-i  15mt  oIf pInrydcu ,eo   o
of ac.. e npl.aren     .. I .nl  atarLy. hTcaalryppeeion sine oat                                conrlainthele 1k-            eductIner ItsoeenCn_   00prc
Oc  mcd0   hobeeo   o  oeecdctrenraIso  tepplto                        anase   ell   r   rn   r  bv   h   f lflabe   g
lerAea-     t              t.euaco   0    achoed - The Pea  ah-  tra-ov-y pepolut ieo              proced..e g.nre.  voc1 tite.  entohr  rlltlnrrceu  o   uc
sIne boo bean.. reuhrd.                                                                          2sel   fI  to 17y.cra. .f -ae;c-spend-nc  c-rr  acA-                    oe
PopulatIon losairy                                                          Otolu~~~~~~~~~~1.1dedf.
tona  eree  1960. 1970 and 1979 don.                                                             IcuetehIa. tnueellyo  ohe   rotrn  nth  ocrrotnCrdrre
Psnrcv.tl.ugrliCultura100-rcarrtdcaahb-n L frgoecel-uruflod                                        anelera   daran-nn  ofaeoni           r  -v-luie
ony;S ...17  ad111dn.                                                                          Pepil-toarhen raip - prI"ar. end ae-o -dnr- T-1  -cd--c oct-1 nd ic
PPope flaro  Aga Snuto-.. Ineran-    - Childrno (f-i4 y-er). noting-age  115-                        primary and ecendeny 1e-el  dtnided by euhr   f  noh-net  Ic ho
64 years.  co Ad Indee.d 165 Y-.r end ove) eaperrentaga  i eid-ytac pope-                          ceepdIrt          -Iesl.
lenten; 1990. 19701..ad 1919 deru.                                                               Aduit 1lArereyer   Lartt             itte.ctecdelne  (chInora  ace tri1)
fonelain onhln 1  ecn   ttl-cauluet   ae   f coca) rid-                                              tapenrnrer c  t                   Coedi  Ppuo Iont  ad1   rm    t   0r
Year pep1onlnn   for 1951-hf. 1960-70, and 11-9
Perlar ion Ilnnh Par  irprC-o) -urbev  -hnoAl..   g-eth ouc   f erbur "pe-                     1ONS1)fPTlet
fules  o  1950-60  IA-O.o 19       70-19. IdPoa..ng-r Cars lost thn.an                                                                            C.ua  1    .atagr .oc  c.yru v.. ter
crd   lnh tate frtcooed   AnnualI Ive hicha y.r tbe.....d of tad-your                          C", tet o  las  tha  sight peros .         n.. dn   nolao    hocoee
papuL.n Ion; 19h0, 1910, ad179 dAne.sf1trchie
,Crde loath  Mtar  (per rho    d)- ..d Aet.e. Id-ahe Pr  tha..ue.de of aid-year                  RudIoR tcI..ra ftrrth-aed  -nelap0    All, 'Ypacronor  f. rodeo
,poplnon   91  1970, end 1919 date,                                                              brodrcat   eea eicr Per thousadofcyitv,                           ldacc
bin   ortal cpreurtle prca  if ihenriere   reet  g-seAirfp-sna   in eff-ri; date for reen    e-  maY to- aI"yoeito
tel Any  res;cc  l     e-pa   vrgsedn  in L1960, 1971  end 199                                   a eat ncnic bnlimhed 1lcr-iog.
Facile PIenie-crfct  f ..Ia ith-e...oda  - Alnul.   nbn  of ocprnTV beneore  pop ibvah                                         PIltln  ....       recci.rs for broad roacc
of hlitch-ceitra  dacAt(Ce  eder ...Ac oi- f rOc- a f...      y   laninFpe.na..in-1 public' pm hoaed populalco ITidsciirne                                           lerco
Yelc  ivno-la    prcnaf tarried In..te   - PsrctgLo aridt  cutrine and In yaafs chenonicrtio   f TV set. _a  Ic fIe
ae   If chil'd-bearing age 115-44 y-ea   b  eobrh-enc  dvnen h.aNarrCIe-olonlo   Ine t-hec.t.d ocLAto -.L                                           h. lheoteoce-     c
al  mried  -os  in eae age erect.                                                              eultlo  ofdal.gnea                 ..tt  .....sape P" nfnd   aprldco
publicaion d-ctdp italy to n-C-rin  Aeta  cent   It Jc.e-cd_rad
PFWD1) ciTRtTeo'                                                                                     tob    aIy i  it app..ea   osnfetiaaek
Indra of food.ProdurIoa perCtcna  1969-Ji1-10f -    st. of par capita tenua                      Cinema annual Attna c pe  CapIta eIr Yse-t-...d enIh t .t.obn- of
productIo af all rand rfm,nl  ea   Produt-i-nanrldsteerd and feed end                            tubers sold darIng the yeari.IcludangedeAsa lone to driv-eccerem-
ana   aedeynar heals.  Comnodit be cove  primaygad  (eg        Ie-re                     end mobile unite.
--enndcfcugerfehicer ...d,ibloadcralnnr- telg    ofadd
noIona  eereg        prduce   rior as Ig.i;191-5,1971.an  1919 dan.-                          Total Labor Purrs lthau....d    - ECran..irally artier P:...    cocd
Pep rap Inaecae.I ofcelarten frtret of rehlremenial- Cepuedfre                      -nd f-rsa and anseplcyad hot  -1ociudi    bheseio-a, _ndca,  nrI.,
mie  s",pvlyo  of  veI        odnyie   e  ib    ncutyprcpt                                        -ncring pepulaant nf all upon.  1sfi.iti... Lc cur ou  --rocisa.c
erda.1   A-eilable auppIibr  canprlis  d....ntc prduction, inereioa                          o    _upa-ble; 1960. 1910 and 1979 dora.
taprl    nd rhatelntaI  .Net :uppl isstr.         eaialft.    rd -1Finalefrar1enL F- Psal  labor f-rca  nprng  ofllthlulfhrfne
qunl O   adic food precat.iog,Man  I...tot ioditltv            tqer-hrruoc A                     lot.. r.... f.-Labr""    et  famIng, fodenry  LuRltco
mann  ten oa cecodby 'ee be_rd Cphyalologn-l I            Ldefo Co_nL ati                ft.hang .a Pocrt     o   otlion  forc; 1960, 1970 a-d 1979 Ouc-
flyr and helth C      inndarlce onire....c.Ietyrur,brdy enghne-ar                           InutrC            o) - Labor force  1   iin anlr       . -cntut c,stfac- toni
u-de    diarbuc"Io ofpuIenen 1ud  lltig 1I penCror for easn  or.                               end e1-trotkipY, otradtee   ron ro  coral later beer  Ilyre
hueod Leve; 1961-nl  ~1911und 1911 dare.                                                   170 and 1919dae
Pr  altnpnco   rnlnIrs   e dt                          nA Ccontort of percpt                    arila e late fLrrrsttl-rnl  ae   o  eel-occycIco
cncpply of food Per duy.  Net aupply o)f food Le defined at aboe.R. Pa                       c         ae   r   oeutda   ea,ml,adfsIr Mah    foce at
Lolreent  fo   all ..eeteli ..a...blinbed by U110 pre-ido for  J.icin                    p-rCn-gra of  oca.1'. tal.ad femain pP.'an-ee of all  n- retnci- "Ily;
a I eneCe of hI gr.et of toC;f,     oA    endy      Bn   0  rt  of aebsa  anl                  1961, 1970. and 1979 dat.-   Tbheat archoad or LO"a parclyaienrotna
p.ulee proely  oahith  1 grn   hci   eaialpnno   Th-anaev-                                     renamCing, age-ar  Arutrof the pope1lote.d  ur  hoR cIte  tred.
Ird   ...,aerh..ne  o- f Pigr...II   .L.   --tl yerenudl  Irteo                           feuaien tfroceantieela...r-..
oi..a . prticatev ...ag   ion, tht  -ed. proposd by PAC en tbc ThIrd                        L-Lneic Oprod- I Raiao  - aR.li  of popy.i-tIc  -rdr  15 00  65 -d oe
.elod Feed  urcy;1961-65. 1971 and 1971Idono.                                                  t   the t--tu   lb-r force
rIced frt- enial  an d pel-r  in gl.t per day; 19161-bc, 191O ad 19710 data.               INCOME1 DISTR-f lo
Child ease  -of foetelic lae (cc  ibeuard)    Annel druha pe  thouand  I            PercvcaceAfcc..e.IIrecthocoPoaub!,                Cood..     frfoII    c  oil
age  rou  i-  fera.  o cildrn  n th ag  trop;for  eardevleopg...-...nce            .. reh-a  20 pn-rr-r. pe-on  20 p-r-n, acd   --cenufocco
ri_t data derin   re   irtuee.1960, 1970 and 1979 dat.                                          of boceol
HEALTR                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVEROTARG0111  GtRrUP
I.tfn  iatcya   lalcea EA-SAerg  v.eh.  of yearn    Ii fobrneti                                  The folenin   estiate  ar -cro -      ppoenleto  -eeoer  of ycnt..      leec.
an birth; 1960. 1910 und 1979 df.-                                                               and sh-oc,d hr c-tryrrndoItylco idra -lecautio.
Itiat tertlit  cae frt  h.usavof - Aeo-I dea..ha of Aolfuts cedar ott yea                iniaedIe        -cPvry In.c-  LeorI foil rot  iutc)-  -ra    drua1
bar  i yepieItonl,  nban  an  re-al)-dlth                                                    .IoaoP-Tl'hctrLIto-1ebe -ffhrdei-e.
eaernoyep  io ldn  teaednotaanton   r  oteardbu  oOoteltce         itiatd eltle  ocrt brn  lve (A'peYcyLol-  rbn edc,ra 
oue   ec   nthtic ...ce    oehlu   ctIg, ntN-trnlifa                                              hrlrleaepaen   vom   ee)I ienid  fuorf   e
do yet b    lb.,0 fl.apc   . ,cn--rdtcot b ot  i       .da   ... fct.be   tOe                 peer'.                               V'        US"E121       711b.          ia
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ orhn... and..r...
p"rraeso   iiten    tiv-d -pe P-ltho.   hartadayei  a  Inc lodehdj.-1F~  ih C.l.1v1v'
tlclloeCundAyp-        loihrttooLnctno   .eiuanh.ra
-odaa,1-nerrg hyfthi-brocenrnn   rihbaloelner                         -Iaanaa-Foecaclca0tDonc
ecIece  e   hcca-1  rop-       oeo  d             L.dr  b   ..ba  of prcIcn I C.plyal-..Lt.Wb.   dl-)h
ocata qualIfIed  iresaceOcoaf shoo  o  uncrsi  level.
?O.lteterfoTit Prse    FpuatIo  dviedby hebof ruclcr
tal  an-   eaega1Yrcont   rcia   uie,edeeaetces



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19 80 US$ 240
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 b                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTh (%. constant prices)
US4 Bin.       %                1955/56-1959)60  1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   1975/26-1979/90
GNP at Morket Prices                 159.37      100.0                     3.7               3.6                 3.6                 2.9               4.1
Groso Domestic Investment              38.46      24.1
Gross Nation-l Saving                  35.30      22.1
Current Account Balance               -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force  i/              V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln              7.             Mil.        7                 US$         7. of National Average
Agriculture                           39.8             39.6             180.6      70.7                220              56
Industry                              25.2             25.1              32.2      12.6                783             199
Services                              35.5            35.3               42.6     16.7                 833             211
Total/Avera-g                        100.5          1T0.0                -5       Uy
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Gover,nment       eSCentral Govern-nt
Rs. BIn.         % of GDP                                           Rs. 8In.          7 of GDP
1980/1   1980/81  1976/77-1980/1                                    1980/81    1980/81   1976/77-1980/81
Currect Receipts                   238,19      19.0         19.1                                       125.41       10.(           10.6
Current Expenditures               238,93      19.0         18.0                                       133.29       IC-,           10.6
Currect Suoplus/Deficit             -0.74      -0.1          1.1                                       - 7.88      - U.t          N9S.
Capitol Expenditures  fl           107.35       B.5          7.6                                        79.99        6.4            5.4
Eternal Assistance (set) dl         12.86       1.0          1.0
MONEY,  RE_D1- AND PRICES          1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978i79    1979/80    1980/81    February 1981   Febtusry 1982
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               109.8       194.6       223.2       273.2       329.1       398.6       467.9       553.1        536.13            615.53
Bank Credit to Government (sot)    54.6          95.3        97.9       118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0       258.1        238.22            292.18
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   64.6         126.5       153.7       185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3       363.2        349.03            422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                    April-Feb 1980/81  April-Fel   1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  27.3          28.0        30.1        33.9        40.8        40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0       174.9       173.0       176.6      185.8       185.8       217.6       257.0          255.9                   280.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price index                  7.7       25.2        -1.1         2.1         5.2         -          17.1        18.1           18.4                     9.6
Bank Credit to Government (net)    15.0            9.2       .2.7        21.0        15.9        18.3        23.8        28.4           28.6 I/                 22.7 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector   19.4          18.2        21.5        20.4        14.6        19.5        20.8        18.6           16.6 y/                 20.9 h/
A/ The per capita GNP estimate is at mnrket prices, calculated by the conversioa technique used in the World bank Atlas, 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this tsble are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the pariod covered.
b/  Quick Estimates, Centr-l Statistical Organi-atios.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first yFar and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/ transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
^/ Percentage change from end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
h/ Percentage change from end-Februtry, 1981 to end-February 1982.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown fron Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annenure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
RALAN4CE OF PAYMENTS               1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82          MERCH{ANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln.)                                                                                                              US$ Mln.         .
Exports of Goods                    6,978        7,998        8,504        8,700           Engineering Goods               908          12
Imports of Goods                   -8,519      -11,302    -15,838       -16,000            Tea                             506           7
Trade Balance                       -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334       - 7,300            Gems                            403            5
NFS (net)                              717       1,100          722          915           Clothing                        501           7
Leether and Leather
Resource Balance                     - 824      -2.204    - 6,612       - 6.385               Products                     457           6
Jute Manufactures               303           4
Interest Income (net) k/                14          196         370          212           Iron Ore                        321           4
Net Transfers   I/                   1,185       1,577        3,079       1,840            Cotton Textiles                 316           4
Sugar                           102           1
Balance on Current Aecount             375       - 431       -3.163      -4 333            Others                        3,541          48
Official Aid                                                                               Total                         7.448         100
Disbursements                    1,695        1,738       2,337        2,724  _/        EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1981
Amortization                     - 702        - 608       - 7D7        - 659                                                    US$ billion
Transactions with IMF                - 158          -         1,035          690           Outstanding and Disbursed                     17.2
All Other Items                        265        - 475         147       - 797            Undisbursed                                    7.5
Outstanding, including                       24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)           -1,475        - 224          351       2,375                Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)p/          7,357       7,579        7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year)rn/    7,357            7,579       6,901        3,876            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81  L/ n/  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1981
Imports  (Petroleum)                2,043        4,045        6,657        6,075                                                  USS million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                                 24           26          33         n^
Outstanding and Disbursed           984           5646
Undisbursed                         880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                   1864          10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971               US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972           US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                          Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980                 US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981                 US$1.00 - Rs 9.099
Re 1.00 - US$0.110
i/ Estimated.
Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
Ov  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
o l  Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
7  Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page L of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank             IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
45 Loans/                                               1,516.0              -(
73 Credits fully disbursed                                   -          4,315.4             -
342-IN    1973      Education                                              12.0           1.70
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Proc. & Marketing              -              13.0           1.15
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0              -             8.38
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -               30.0          15.19
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -              83.0           27.24
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -               27.7          10.71
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -               16.4           2.41
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -               40.0          12.40
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                     -             105.0          12.71
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -              150.0          34.00
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -                4.0           1.30
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -               18.0           9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0             -             68.27
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0              -             8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0              -            20.90
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0              -            11.52
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0              -             6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -               30.0          20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -              20.0            5.82
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -              150.0          19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development               -               24.0           0.10
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research         -               12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0              -             6.57
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -               10.0           4.40
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -               23.0          12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development         -                8.0           5.18
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                  -              70.0          23.76
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension             -               13.0           3.43
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                       -              58.0          21.29
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                      78.5              -             4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage                -             107.0          75.63
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II          -               87.0          16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                            -               8.0           6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0              -            10.04
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power           105.0             -            38.55
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                   -              117.6          70.93
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                     -             200.0          90.86
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             -               14.0          12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                      -              85.0          56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                -              17.5          12.48
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                       -              16.0          13.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII               120.0              -            43.46
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                          -             150.0         112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                  -             196.0         181.19
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                      -             111.0          27.64
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                        -             190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage          -              38.0          15.56
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research          -              27.0          24.01
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                  25.0          14.95
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                    -              30.0          15.14
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power               50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power                -             200.0         135.20
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                      -              129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply                -              48.0          35.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II          -             175.0          59.52
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry           -              23.0          14.63
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                       -               20.0          19.22
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II               -             210.0         155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank           IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -              37.0           26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                           -              46.0          44.73
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -               32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -               18.0          14.05
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -              175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -              300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -              22.0           20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -               10.0           9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -               56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -               54.0          51.69
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                         -              80.0          73.53
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0              -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0              -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -             225.0          199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0             -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0              -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -              35.0           34.20
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -               83.0          80.70
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -              42.0           42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -              140.0         140.00
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -             314.0          267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -               54.0          54.00
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -             400.0          387.90
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -               23.0          23.00
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -              28.0           28.00
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -               37.0          37.00
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -             125.0         124.30



ANNEX II
Page-4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -                400.0         400.00
1177-IN*   1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -             220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -            100.00
1178-IN*   1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -              29.0           29.00
1185-IN*   1982      Kanpur Urban Development               -              25.0          25.00
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                            150.0              -           150.00
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0             -           300.00
2095-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                              190.0              -           190.00
1209-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                                -             160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                            -               6.0           6.00
Total                                     3,570.5        10,632.6
of which has been repaid                1,137.4            94.7
Total now outstanding                     2,433.1        10,537.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,062.1         4,192.2
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2      5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        0.9      8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5        0.2       1 -'
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                           40.0        2.6     42.6
Repaid                        24.5         -       24.5
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      94.0        7.9    lnl.9
Undisbursed                   84.9        1        86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed. Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125  Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity.  The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in customs duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313 Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592 Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems. Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound. Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for. the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
tion well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been substantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area. For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being handled satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of the implement-
ing agencies continue, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfa,ctorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly. All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gu arat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987 



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177 Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project in
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138  Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095 Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although-corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project. GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as a result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets. Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State.  Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met. Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
socio-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178 West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but tne staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily. In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory. Detailed designs for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection for popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and construction materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003 Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule. Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
page 1 of 2
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board and the
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation assisted by Bank Group
staff.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
March 1980 and August 1980.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 1981.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
June 1, 1982.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
October 30, 1982.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  GWSSB would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of all schemes to be constructed in
the project villages. In the individual villages,
GWSSB would use the services of local staff who
would be trained to undertake this task (para 53).



ANNEX III
page 2 of 2
(b) Effective April 1, 1983, the revenues for all
participating municipal towns including RMC and
AMC would be doubled through the imposition of
higher tariffs. Thereafter, appropriate revenue
increase and/or cost reduction policies would be
applied so as to ensure that in accordance with
an agreed schedule, revenues collected should
enable the participating municipalities, RMC and
AMC, to cover their operation and maintenance
costs plus depreciation by March 31, 1988, and by
March 31, 1993, their costs of operation and
maintenance plus debt service (para 62).
(c) GOV, will levy a uniform per capita annual con-
tribution of Rs 6 (1USS0.70) from both regional
and individual local authorities in the problem
villages and make the balance of funds to meet
their operation and maintenance costs available
from its existing ten percent surcharge on sales
tax (para 63).






25\                                                                                                                                                                                                          INDIA                                      25-
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY
4  J ,                                                       AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
P  A   K   I  S   T  A   N                                                                                            -t                                                  LOCATION OF PROPOSED
$, t AHAD <                                                            WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE SCHEMES
P                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~7"lREGIONAL RURAL WATER SUJPPLY SCHEME AREAS (RRW)
"E' '      PALANPIR                                                      I     INDIVIDUAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY SCHEME AREAS
2'                                                  a   URBAN W ATER SUPPLY SCHEMES
\ ZtRml- \\ \\ 0,   URL   RAN SEWESAUL SEHEMES
RA:HAPR '                                                   .                                          LOW COST SANITATION SCHEMES
BANNI                       0                          Ag/-1 *44t),-/  STATE CAPITAL
CAKE-NAT                                                                 HIMATSAOAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~j   DISTRICT CENTERS
SR                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OTHER TOWNS
~PANTIJ
-                              -    -            *DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-~~~                      AS ANOHINAGAR                                              -*- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE/UJNION TERRITORY BOUNOARIES
-                                                                                              RI VER
_2qa    .                                :            -      :                                                           '   '\)  A/AAMAN VI  DHRANGA   HR
OHRANSADRRA                                                   B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  R~1ANN OP KUTCH
_WADWAN                                  RE:r IllALAf                    H R A
ANAND'~eN  *1           __            ADAOHYA
AGAROAR
RAJK%,       \ Ea 4-..'                                                                                   PRA DESH
_  ,      ,                   I               I                    "  ''  : '          .:'               "  :-  :    j                                                                         I                                     _,~~qvl -vWADUAR
y                                               /~
Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OHORAJI                                                                                         NoHA'AA
UHVAGR.             RHARUCH
ARKNLA                                .           ,o - ,.
RAA
A0               A
0AM4N V 
~~MARSJRB~~~~~~~~~/.~~~~s ~0                                            40         HO         I2O
KILOMETERS
DADRA                                                                                                        W
DAGA A   VEt!
-41



