Document of                            ,
The World Bank             L; P X    ,'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.3667b-IN
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJEC'
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
June 14, 1982
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  =  Rs 8.5
Rs 1.00  =  US$0.118
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm          -             millimeter (0.04 inches)
cm          -             centimeter (0.39 inches)
m           -             meter (39.37 inches or 3.28 ft)
km          -             kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha          -             hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq km       -             square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
1           -             liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd         -             liters per capita per day
cu.m        -             cubic meter (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
ml          -             million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mld         -             million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial
gallons per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
mgd         -             million gallons (Imperial) per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC         -             Average Incremental Costs
AMC         -             Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation
BRAS        -             Municipal Corporations of Baroda, Rajkot,
Ahmedabad, and Surat
CPHEEO      -             Central Public Health Engineering and Environmental
Organization
GOG         -             Government of Gujarat
GOI         -             Government of India
GWSSB       -             Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board
IRR         -             Internal Rate of Return
LIC         -             Life Insurance Corporation of India
MC          -             Municipal Corporation
PHES        -             Public Health Engineering Service
RMC         -             Rajkot Municipal Corporation
UNDP        -             United Nations Development Programme
WHO         -             World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ..........................                         1
National Sector Organization and Development ..................                       1
The State of Gujarat - Background Data ........................                       2
Service Levels .....................f                                                 3
Sector Investment Program .....................................                       4
Sector Organization ....................,                                             5
Operation and Maintenance .....................................                       5
II.  POPULATION FORECASTS AND DEMAND PROJECTIONS IN PROJECT AREA ..                          6
The Project Area ..............................................                       6
Present Water Supply in Project Area ..........................                       6
Present Sewerage in Project Area ..............................                       7
Population Forecasts ..........................................                       9
Present and Forecast Water Demand and Sewage Flow .............                      10
Water and Sewerage Services for the Urban Poor ................                      11
III. PROJECT AGENCIES  .............................................                       16
The Water Supply and Sewerage Board (GWSSB) ...................                      16
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) .........................                      17
Operation and Maintenance .....................................                      18
Manpower and Training .........................................                      18
Project Implementation Arrangements ...........................                      20
IV.  THE PROJECT ..................................................                        21
Project P'riorities and Selection Criteria .....................                     21
Project Design ................................................                      21
Project Description ...........................................                      22
Urban Water Supply ............................................                      22
Urban Sewerage .............                                                         23
Rural Water Supply ............................................                      23
Low-Cost Sanitation ...........................................                      24
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission consisting of
Messrs. D.B. Clement, R.C. Mitchell and H.W. Barker who visited
Gujarat in June 1981. Mr. K.G. Jechoutek also contributed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
Common Sevices ................................................          24
Cost Estimates ................................................          24
Financing .....................................................          24
Retroactive Financing                      ..                            24
Engineering and Management Consultants               ..                  26
Implementation Schedule                     ..                           27
Procurement ...................................................          27
Disbursement ..................................................          28
Land Acquisition                         ..                              29
Property and Household Connections to Sewerage Systems   . .             29
Metering .......................................................         30
Distribution System Maintenance                  ..                      30
Low-Cost Sanitation                       ..                             31
V.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ............................................            32
Past Financial Performance                    ..                         32
Present Financial Position           ...................                 34
Tariffs .......................................................          35
Future Financial Performance                   ..                        37
Financing Plan ................................................          39
Onlending Arrangements                      ..                           40
Commercial Accounting Systems .................................          41
Audit .........................................................          42
Billing and Collection                      ..                           42
Insurance .....................................................          42
House Connection Loan Fund                    ..                         43
VI.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS .................................            43
Marginal Cost Analysis                      ..                           43
Internal Rate of Return                      ..                          44
Pricing Considerations                      ..                           44
Environmental and Health Impact                  ..                      45
Impact on Poverty Groups ...........................-------- 46
Least-Cost Solution                       ..                             47
Project Risks                          ..                                47
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................            47
Agreements Reached                        ..                             47
Condition of Disbursement                     ..                         48
Recommendation      ........................ .......................     48



-i.ii-
Table of Corntents (continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Sector Investments ........................................  49
2.  Urban Water Supply Service Levels - Summary ...............  50
3.  Urban Areas Sewerage - Salient Data and Service Levels....  51
4.  Low-Cost Sanitation - Existing and Proposed Facilities....  52
5.  Urban Water Supply Demands - Summary ......................  53
6.  Urban Areas Water - Salient Data and Service Levels .......  54
7. Rural Water Supply Demands                  .        .          55
8.  Organization Chart of Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage
Board ..................................................  56
9.  Organization Chart of Ahmedabad MC Engineering Department.  57
10.  Manpower Forecast and Recruitment Rate 1981-1990 ..........  58
11.  Forecast Training Requirements .......................... ..   59
12.  Project Description .......................................  60-65
13.  Summary Estimated Costs GWSSB Components ..................  66
14.  Summary Estimated Costs AMC Component  .....       ...........  67
15.  Total Summary Cost Estimates - Rural and Urban Areas ......  68
16.  Project Schedule - AMC Project             .....               69
17.  Etigineering Design and Construction Schedule ..............  70
18.  Material and Equipment Requirements, GWSSB Projects .......  71
19.  Material and Equipment Contracts, AMC Project..----*---        72
20.  Disbursement Schedule .....................................  73
21.  Present Tariff Structure ..................................  74
22.  Financial Statements - Project Cities .....................  75-82
23.  Assumptions for Financial Projections .... .................  83-85
24.  Financial Statement - Regional Water Supply Schemes .......  86
25.  Financial Statement - Individual Rural Water Supply
Schemes .................................................  87
26.  GWSSB - Receipts and Expenditure Statement ................  88
27.  GWSSB - Loan Fund Account .................................  89
28.  Statistics of Water Related Diseases ......................  90
29.  Project Investment for Poverty Groups ....................  . 91
30.  Monitoring Indicators               .      .........  92-94
31.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .....  95
MAPS
IBRD 15997 - Location of Proposed Water Supply and Sewerage Schemes
IBRD 15998 - Ahmedabad MC Sewerage Project - Proposed Works
IBRD 15999 - Rajkot MC Sewerage Project - Proposed Works



II



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
National Sector Organization and Development
1.01    While the Central Government exercises some influence in the sector,
State Governments in India have primary responsibility for development of
water supply and sewerage facilities. They execute their responsibilities
through various departments of government and agencies which, in turn, may
delegate part or all of their duties to local authorities. In certain cases,
legislation has been enacted to permit municipal authorities or other
agencies to assume the entire responsibility for planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage services
within their jurisdictions.
1.02    Since the early 1950's, State Governments have endeavored to meet
the increasing sector demands caused by rapidly expanding populations and
unprecedented rates of urban growth. However, competing demands for
resources by other sectors, lack of management and planning skills, shortages
of key materials and equipment, as well as foreign exchange constraints, have
resulted in only 1 to 2% of public expenditures being invested in the sector.
This has led to inadequate levels of water supply and sewerage services. In
1975, it was estimated 1/ that in India only 193 million people, or 31% of
the total population of 620 million, had access to reasonably safe drinking
water and that only 125 million (20%) had acceptable means of disposing of
sewage. These levels were lower than average levels for all developing
countries, in which water and waste disposal services reached 38% and 33% of
the population, respectively. While some improvement in water supply service
has been achieved, the percentage of the population receiving waste disposal
services has actually declined.
1.03    It is estimated 2/ that investments in developing countries in the
order of four times the 1971 to 1975 levels will be necessary if the goals of
1/ World Health Organization, Community Supply and Wastewater Disposal,
Mid-Decade Progress Report, May 1976.
2/ Report on Community Water Supplies, United Nations Water Conference. Mar
del Plata, Argentina, March, 1977.



-2-
the Drinking Water Decade 1/ are to be achieved by 1990. For urban water
supply and sewerage in India, the investment in the Fifth Five-year plan for
the period 1974 to 1979 averaged some Rs 1,100 million (US$131 million) per
year, about 1.5% of the total plan investment; annual investment in the rural
water sector in the same period was Rs 750 million (US$89 million) which was
1.0% of the total plan investment. Much higher investment levels will be
necessary if significant progress towards Decade targets is to be seriously
attempted. The Government of India (GOI) is committed to the objectives of
the Drinking Water Decade, and in its Sixth Five-year plan 1980-85, it has
allocated 4% of the total plan provision to the sector. The rural water
sector under the plan will receive an average of Rs 4,300 million (US$505
million) per year, about 2.2% of the plan, while the urban water supply and
sanitation sector will receive an average of Rs 3,500 million (US$411
million), about 1.8% of the plan. These figures represent approximately four
times and three times, respectively, the investments made in the individual
sectors under the previous plan, and reflect the importance which GOI
attaches to the Decade program. Moreover, GOI appreciates quite
realistically that the financial demands of the program can only be met by
the use of low-cost techniques both in water supply and in sanitation, and
has consequently urged State Governments to adopt these techniques where
appropriate. The efficient operation and effective maintenance of water and
sewerage systems has always presented a serious challenge to Central and
local government institutions, and it is imperative that the increase in
capital works occasioned by the Decade program be accompanied by an intensive
training of personnel in the sector in order that a compatible standard of
operational competence is achieved.
The State of Gujarat - Background Data
1.04    The State of Gujarat is located in the northwestern part of India
bordering on Pakistan. It covers an area of 187,091 sq. km., which is 5.7%
of the national territory. The total population of the State is currently
estimated to be in excess of 30 million, representing an average density of
164 per sq. km. 28% of the population is urban, living in 216 municipalities
and townships and the rural population inhabits 18,275 villages. The average
per capita income was estimated at Rs 1,450/annum for 1977/78 which compares
favorably with the all-India average of Rs 1,022 for the same period.
1.05    The area's access to surface water is relatively limited, but the
population supplied in this area represents almost one third of the total
population served.  There are only three perennial rivers:  Narmada, Tapi,
and Mahi, all located in the south of the State, and numerous smaller
1/  The goals are: Urban and Rural Water Supply - 100% coverage.
Urban Wastes disposal          -  80% coverage.
Rural Sanitation               -  25% coverage.



-3-
non-perennial rivers which are used for irrigation or combined
irrigation/water supply purposes. Ground water is very limited in the
peninsular region of Saurashtra, mainly due to the rocky stratum, but also on
account of the high salinity present in the coastal areas. In the alluvial
areas of northern Gujarat, ground water is more plentiful and can be tapped
under varying conditions and at different depths. The semi-arid area of
Kutch to the north is virtually without any reliable source of water, and
water supply in this region involves expensive conveyance over large
distances.
Service Levels
1.06    The overall service level is far from satisfactory.  In particular,
the rural population wnich accounts for more than 70% has only limited access
to safe water. The present situation is that of 9,600 problem villages 1/
(50% of the total number of villages) only 4,514 with 4.06 million population
are supplied with safe water.
1.07    The situation is somewhat better in the urban areas.  Out of 216
towns, 49 still lack an organized water supply system, but the 167 which are
served enjoy a comparatively high coverage of their population, although only
intermittent service is available at most places. Investments in urban areas
have not only kept pace with population growth, but considerable funds have
also been made available to extend the systems. At present, 126 towns can be
regarded as having a minimum supply for all inhabitants and 41 are in a stage
of improving their supplies to that level. The following table illustrates
the situatiorn.
Table 1.1
Number of Towns              Population Served                 Population Unserved
Million  %Served by house-              Million
connections
126 (including BRAS) 2/    6.63             78                     Negligible
41                         1.20            70                       0.54
49                         Nil             Nil                      0.44
216                         7.83                                     0.98
1/  A problem village is a village without an assured safe water source
within a distance of 1.6 km from the village.
2/ Municipal Corporations of Baroda, Rajkot, Ahmedabad and Surat. (Since
Appraisal, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar have also been made Municipal Corpora-
tions).



-4-
1.08    Nineteen towns have sewerage facilities, with partial coverage and
primary treatment. In addition, three major cities, Baroda, Surat, and
Ahmedabad, operate extended systems with secondary treatment plants. There
is a sizable conversion program under execution to replace bucket latrines
by water-seal latrines. The program was started in 1964 and, to date,
approximately 76,400 out of 98,700 dry latrines have been converted.
Approximately 28% of all urban households are still without any facilities.
Rural sanitation has so far been given little consideration.
Sector Investment Program
1.09    In an endeavor to comply to the extent possible with the goals of
the Drinking Water Decade, the State of Gujarat places immediate emphasis
on the water supply of the neglected rural areas, the short-term goal being
to cover all problem villages, 50% with piped systems and 50% with hand pump
systems. In urban areas, an attempt will be made to improve existing levels
in supply and to keep pace with population growth. While previously pursuing
the objectives of providing water-borne sewerage on a wide scale, the
Government of Gujarat (GOG) will now supplant this objective with the use of
low-cost sanitation techniques, except in the case of some Class I 1/ townls
and to some degree in smaller towns, where there are well established
water-borne facilities or where geological conditions render these techniques
inappropriate.
1.10    Annex I shows past and projected investments in the sector as far as
they are funded by GOG, LIC 2/, and commercial bank loans. Total sector
investment figures are not readily available and would require an extensive
review of all municipalities since the financing system is rather complex:
(i)   The Municipal city corporations do not normally have
access to Government funds but have to use their own
resources in addition to borrowings from LIC and/or
commercial banks.
(ii) Other municipalities are supported by the Government
in varying proportions of their investments depending
on their size.
1.11    During the Fifth Plan, sector investments represented only 3% of GOG
total outlay. Under the Sixth Plan, this percentage will increase to
1/ Class I towns are those having populations greater than 100,000.
2/ Life Insurance Corporation of India.



-5-
something in excess of 6%. Whereas, the total investment in urban water
supply and sanitation in the Sixth plan shows a moderate increase over that
of the Fifth Plan, projected investments in rural supply show a marked
increase to almost triple the already substantial amount previously allocated
to this part of the sector.
Sector Organization
1.12    The organization of the Sector in Gujarat is rather diffuse.  With
the exception of the Municipal Corporations, the responsibility for the
planning, design, and construction of the water supply and sewerage systems
for the whole of the State of Gujarat rests with the Gujarat Water Supply and
Sewerage Board (GWSSB). GWSSB was established on August 20, 1979. It was
the intention that GWSSB should take over the functions of the Public Health
Engineering Service (PHES), but as an autonomous body. However, the PHES,
for an interim period, continued its involvement in the execution of projects
in hand, and it was only on April 1, 1981, that the entire functions of the
PHES were vested in GWSSB. As a general principle, GWSSB will finance,
execute, and commission projects but will hand them over to the local bodies
for operation.
1.13    The Municipal Corporations act independently in planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance, financing, billing, and collecting
for their systems. They may, however, make use of the services of GWSSB at
their own discretion. They can propose tariffs, but tariff implementation is
subject GOu approval. The functions of the Corporations are defined in the
Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949.
1.14    The Municipalities, district panchayats and village panchayats in
rural areas normally take over the systems after commissioning, and GWSSB is
fully reimbursed by local contribution and by GOG grant for the construction
costs and its services. The powers of the municipalities and panchayats are
covered by the Gujarat Municipalities Act 1963, and the Gujarat Panchayat Act
1962. These local bodies may set their own tariffs subject to approval by
GOG.
1.15    The other principal agency involved in the water supply and sewerage
sector is the Board for the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution. This
Board which is empowered by the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution)
Act, 1974, and its Amendment of 1978, regulates waste water disposal to
streams and to other receiving water bodies.
Operation and Maintenance
1.16    Operation and maintenance of existing water supply and sewerage
systems are generally unsatisfactory throughout the sector, partly because
of organizational and financial constraints, but to a large extent due to a
lack of well-trained staff. Training will be introduced through the proposed
project to improve skills, particularly of those at the operational level.



-6-
II. POPULATION FORECASTS AND DEMAND PROJECTIONS IN PROJECT AREA
The Project Area
2.01    A water supply and sanitation sector memorandum for the State of
Gujarat was prepared by the World Bank/WHO Cooperative Program (IBRD/WHO CP)
in late 1978, which examined in detail the status of the sector and
identified the priorities of future sector investment. In line with these
priorities, GOG has prepared a project package consisting of the following:
(i) an urban water supply component covering extensions to the systems of
five large towns, Nadiad, Godhra, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, and Anand; (ii) an
urban sewerage component involving extensions to the sewerage systems of the
Municipal Corporation of Ahmedabad (AMC) and the towns of Nadiad and Anand,
and the provision of completely new sewerage systems for the Municipal
Corporation of Rajkot (RMC) and the town of Savarkundla; (iii) a rural water
supply component covering seven regional village groupings; (iv) 111
individual rural water supply schemes for "no source" villages; and (v) a
low-cost sanitation component for 15 sample towns identified under the UNDP
Global Sanitation Project. A training component for all grades of water
supply and sewerage personnel within the sector has been especially
emphasized under the project. The justification for the selection of the
components of the project package is given in paragraph 4.02.
Present Water Supply in Project Area
2.02    The towns of Nadiad and Anand are located in the alluvial area of
Gujarat where underground water is relatively plentiful. At present, both
towns are supplied from tube/infiltration wells located either within or in
close proximity to the municipal boundaries. There is no shortage of water
in these areas and existing service levels are comparatively high. New water
supplies will be required only for areas which hitherto were not supplied.
2.03    The towns of Jamnagar and Bhavnagar rely almost exclusively on
surface water sources for their supply which means taking supplies from
natural lakes or from impounding reservoirs. Existing resources have been
insufficient to keep up with the demand of expanding domestic and industrial
usage, and current service levels are barely adequate. Bhavnagar has
negotiated a substantial new supply from the Irrigation Departments
Shetrunji reservoir which will form the principal source of the new project,
but at present, the raw-water transmission line from this reservoir is
incomplete, and the current expedient of discharging water from this source
into an existing reservoir via an open watercourse is not satisfactory. The
raw water for both towns is treated at conventional rapid gravity filter
plants. There is no spare capacity available at these plants for the
increased project flows, but there is adequate space at these locations for
the construction of new facilities. The existing distribution and storage



-7-
facilities in both towns are adequate for present supply levels. However,
they will have to be augmented under the new project.
2.04    The existing supply for the town of Godhra consists of a system of
infiltration wells located on the Meshri river. This system, together with a
distribution system adequate for present needs was constructed in 1958. The
projected design yield from this source has never been realized and
subsequent extension of the well system has not made any appreciable addition
to the yield. The existing distribution system needs no major improvement,
but on account of the deficiency of supply, domestic service is inadequate.
Water from the Pan Am irrigation canal is the only feasible source of new
supply.
2.05    Most of the villages covered by the rural water supply component of
the project are located either in arid regions where water is scarce or in
coastal regions where the water is highly saline and not potable. Normal
sources for the villages are shallow open wells or rivulets which dry up or
turn saline in the dry season. There is no piped water system in existence,
and villages have to draw water from sources located at some considerable
distance.
2.06    Existing water service levels in the urban project areas are shown
in Annex 2.
Present Sewerage in Project Area
2.07    Ahmedabad Municipal Corporations - The city of Ahmedabad is the
largest urban center in the State of Gujarat with a present population
exceeding 2 million. It has almost a flat terrain with a maximum level
difference of about 4m from north to south, and the city is divided into
eastern and western areas by the river Sabarmati. Almost the entire urban
area is at present sewered by a separate 1/ sanitary system, which has been
extended from time to time to meet the needs of the rapidly expanding city,
It is served at present by nineteen pumping stations, of which fourteen are
on the eastern side and five on the western side. Complete treatment is
provided to sewage generated from the city at two biological filter plants;
one at the Pirana site on the eastern side having an average design capacity
of 72 mgd and the other at Vasna site on the western side having an average
capacity of 12 mgd. The treated sewage is discharged into the river
Sabarmati.
2.08    Basecl on long-term data collected by AMC on the performance of the
treatment plants at Pirana and Vasna, it has been observed that the
efficiency of both plants has been erratic. These problems are partly due to
1/ To convey sewage only, and to exclude most of the surface water.



-8-
heavy industrial waste discharges and the high peaks caused by intermittent
water supply, but the Pirana plant has for a long time been only partly
functional due to defects in the biological filter equipment.
2.09    The discharge of poorly treated effluent from the existing treatment
plants and the overflow of raw sewage into water courses in periods of storm
have given rise to complaints from the Water Pollution Control Board. An
immediate works program is currently correcting some of the major defects of
the existing collection system and an attempt is being made to diminish peak
flows by staggering water supply to various areas of the city. Furthermore,
a vigorous campaign is currently being conducted by AMC to force offending
industries to comply with existing industrial waste regulations.
2.10    Rajkot Municipal Corporation - Rajkot (about 500,000 inhabitants) is
the smallest of the four Municipal Corporations. The city is divided in two
parts by the river Aji running from south to north. The land on the western
bank of the river generally slopes in the north-east direction while that on
the eastern bank slopes towards the river.
2.11    There is no modern water-borne sewerage system in the city.  Septic
tanks and pit latrines are the sanitation methods normally employed. Human
waste is removed by specially built vehicles and disposed to compost pits
away from the city. The soil conditions are extremely rocky throughout the
city area and are most unfavorable to the present disposal methods, so that
sullage water and overflow from poorly functioning septic tanks is drained
away in open drains to eventually discharge into the course of the river.
In the congested parts of the city, the resulting insanitary conditions are
a serious public health hazard and the advent of a currently proposed water
supply project with increased flows will aggravate this situation even
further.
2.12    Other Project Areas - The major towns of Nadiad and Anand have
extensive systems of separate sanitary sewerage, both of which have been in
existence for about twenty years. In the case of Anand, the system is mainly
gravitational but sewage is finally pumped to a treatment plant consisting of
screens, grit chambers and oxidation ponds before ultimately being discharged
to the land. The Nadiad system has two small lift stations and a main
pumping station which conveys the sewage to a primary plant located outside
the town limits after which the effluent is disposed to the land. All
pumping stations are in working condition but are overloaded. The treatment
plants are in a poor state of repair, and are frequently shut down because of
mechanical failure. With improvement in pump capacity, the existing
collection systems would be adequate for the areas which they serve today but
would not be able to cope with newly developed areas of the towns.
2.13    Savarkundla town has no existing water-borne sewerage system.  A
number of isolated drain lines has been constructed along main roads to
collect sullage water, but these discharge untreated waste direct to the



-9-
local river. Public latrines are of the basket type requiring manual removal
of night soil. The majority of private latrines are of the flush type
connected to soak pits or to septic tanks. Due to the high rock level
throughout the town area, the latter system of disposal is completely
ineffective and the overflow of effluent from septic tanks and soak pits into
roads and open drains has now reached a level where there is a threat to
public health.
2.14    Existing sewerage service levels in the urban project areas are shown
in Annex 3.
2.15    The fLfteen sample towns selected for the low-cost sanitation program
have been studied in some detail in the UNDP Global Project report.  All
towns have adequate piped water supply systems, and it has been established
that, in general, local soil conditions are suitable for the installation of
low-cost pour flush units. Those isolated areas which may pose a threat of
pollution of water supply sources have not been included in the project.
Existing levels of sanitation service in the fifteen towns are shown in Annex
4.
Population Forecasts
2.16    In India, a population census is conducted every ten years, and the
data relating to the past four decades is available for all States, including
Gujarat. 1981 is also a census year, but at the time of preparation of the
proposed project, the details of the census were not yet available. The
forecasting of future populations in the project area has been based on past
population growth rates, adjusted where appropriate to take into account
factors such as migration, and national policy measures such as birth conrol.
Both in rural areas and urban areas, graphical methods of growth prediction
have been used and, in the majority of cases, a modified geometrical
progression has been adopted. For urban water distribution and sewerage net
work analysis, ward-wise populations have also been forecast and for such
purposes town plans and land use data have been referred to. In regional
rural areas, the seasonal migration of population from one village to another
has also been taken into account.
2.17    Present and forecast populations in the various project areas are
summarized in Table 2.1.



-10-
Table 2.1
POPULATIONS IN PROJECT AREA
Urban Areas                      1980/81        1985/86          1990/91
-Thousands--
Ahmedabad                       2,200           2,547            2,830
Rajkot                             500            590               690
Jamnagar                           302            351              406
Bhavnagar                          300            336               363
Nadiad                             139            162              178
Anand                               91            115               133
Godhra                              82             93              104
Savarkundla                         49             53                57
Total                         3,665              4,7Tfi
Rural Areas
Regional Schemes                   295            328               357
Individual Schemes                 116            131              144
Total                           411             459              501
Present and Forecast Water Demand and Sewage Flow
2.18    Detailed demand projections for water and sewage flow for urban areas
of the project are shown in Annexes 3, 5, and 6.  Urban water supply,
together with domestic demands and consolidated water demand figures for the
rural areas, are summarized in Annexes 3 and 7. Accurate production and
consumption data are not available for any of the project towns. Although
the existing water supply systems are similar in design, the quality of
operation and maintenance varies, and system losses are expected to vary from
one town to another. However, the projections assume that during the project
implementation period, through improved operation and maintenance, the
implementation of a leak-detection program, and the installation of bulk
supply meters, the unaccounted-for water in all towns will be reduced to a
reasonable level.
2.19    The objectives of the urban water supply projects are to provide a
domestic supply of about 140 lcd to connected consumers and 45 lcd to
standpost users. In Nadiad, Anand, and Bhavnagar, where an adequate supply
is assured, these objectives may be realized within the scope of the project
for a period up to the end of the century. The two remaining towns, Jamnagar
and Godhra, have access to only limited allocations of water from irrigation
sources at the present time, and no economically viable alternative sources
of supply exist. In these two towns, therefore, although the proposed supply



-1 1-
levels are a marked iLprovernent over those currently prevailing, a level of
service inferior to the above objectives will have to be accepted.  Moreover,
if a reasonable level of service is to be maintained in these two towns to
keep pace with rising population, additional supplies will have to be
provided in the early part of the next decade. Fortunately, new irrigation
sources are projected for development by that time, and these are expected to
provide the necessary additional quantities. Present and future service
levels for urban water supply projects are shown in Annex 2.
2.20    Rural water supplies will be provided to consumers entirely by
standpost. On this basis, consumption has been assumed to range between 40
and 70 lcd.
2.21    Industrial demand has been based on predicted requirements.  In those
urban areas which rely on surface water as a source of supply, the predicted
industrial demand has beeni included in the projections for total demand from
the system. Where ground water is readily available, the general practice
throughout the State is for industrial consumers to develop their own water
sources from private wells and not to make use of the municipal supply. This
is the case in the towns of Anand and Nadiad where industry has elected to
meet their present and future needs in this way. Provided that ground water
reserves are adequate for combined industrial and domestic demand, which is
the case in these two towns at the present time, this practice does not
present a problem. However, although industry bears the cost of development
of its own supply, exploitation of ground water by private industry does
deprive the community at large of this public resource. At some future date,
when local reserves may become critical, continued exploitation of ground
water by industry could force other categories of users to seek more distant
and more expensive water. Early action should be taken to safeguard against
this undesirable situation. During negotiations, GOG promised to furnish
to the Association by June 1983 its assessment of this problem, together with
its intentions regarding the licensing of wells and the metering of such
extractions.
2.22    The sewage flows are based on the assumption that 80% of water
supplied will enter the sewerage system. In addition, adequate provision
has been made for-infiltration.
Water and Sewerage Services for the Urban Poor
2.23    The urban poverty income threshold, which is used to identify the



-12-
number of urban poor, is currently defined for India as US$88/capita/annuml/.
Converted to monthly household income, this corresponds to Rs 350 per mont:h.
The estimates of urban poor, both as a percentage of total households and
total population for selected project towns, are presented in Table 2.2.
Three general conclusions regarding the extent of urban poverty in selected
urban centers in Gujarat are:
(i)   The percentage of urban poor appears to be considerably lower
than the Indian average. Urban poor households constitute
between 14% and 39% among the towns surveyed compared to
approximately 40% for the country as a whole.
(ii)  In general, the larger the size of town the lesser the
proportion of urban poor. Anand and Godhra represent the
average Indian urban centers with about 40% of the households
below Rs 350; Rajkot presents an extreme situation with only
14% below the threshold income class, but this figure may
be distorted by the higher cost of living index in this
city. The city of Ahmedabad is also unrepresentative in
having a high poverty figure approaching the upper national
limits, due to high immigration of low income groups from
the rural areas.
(iii) In general, urban poor are not concentrated in well-defined
slum areas but are distributed in hutments scattered throughout
the congested city areas so that they are difficult to
pinpoint. Water supply and sanitation services for this
group have therefore to be provided in a fragmented manner.
2.24    The present service level of the urban poor households with respect
to water supply and sanitation is presented in Table 2.3. The estimated per
capita consumptions of municipal water for the urban poor and other
categories are shown in Table 2.4. Figures taking into account water supply
from all sources would show a slightly more favorable service level for the
poor as they rely more heavily on non-municipal sources than other categories
of consumer.
1/ It should be noted that this is substantially lower than urban poverty
levels in many countries. For example, in Colombia the threshold is $214/
capita/annum and in the Philippines $250/capita/annum. Persons with these
incomes in India would be well up the economic scale, and were a world-wide
threshold used, the percentage of urban poor which benefit from a project
would be markedly higher than indicated in this report.



TABLE 2.2: URBAN POOR IN SELECTED CITIES/TOWNS IN GUJARAT
of           Estimated Population           Estimated Per
Household            of Urban Poor              Capita Income            Per Capita Income
Town/       Below Rs.                           % of         of Urban Poor             All Classes Per
City        350 per                             Total          (Rs. Per                      Year
Month            Number         Population         Year)                        (Rs)
Anand          38.9           27,800             34.3            559                       1,314
Bhavnagar      29.4            76,290            22.8            651                        1,294
Godhra        39.1            35,060            41.7            447                        1,051
Jamnagar       26.2           62,070             21.6           651                        1,425
Nadiad         26.4           31,800             22.1            580                       1,423
Rajkot        14.2            53,530            10.9            644                        1,482
Savarkundla   30.4            11,920            24.7            585                          983
Note:  The urban poverty income threshold has been defined as US$88.0 per capita per year (or
Rs 704) in 1980. The definition adopted above, i.e. Rs 350 per household per month
closely follows this criterion allowing for the price adjustment between 19P0 and 1981.



TABLE 2.3: SERVICE LEVELS ENJOYED BY URBAN POOR
Water Supply (%) Source                                   Sanitation %
Town/              House       Stand                               Septic                 Public      Open
City           Connections    Post        Others      Sewered       Tank      Bucket    Latrine       Area
Anand            29.5          40.5        30.0         16.4         6.4         0.5      25.2        51.5
Bhavnagar        39.1          41.0        19.9         23.3         3.0         -        25.7        48.0
Godhra           27.7          41.3        31.0          -          32.7       27.7        -          39.7
Jamnagar         38.9          25.8        35.3          -          23.1       22.2       28.7        26.0
Nadiad           42.3          36.7        21.0         42.0         0.6        -         44.2        13.2
Rajkot           55.8 *        26.4        17.8          -          33.1       12.3       27.6        27.0
Savarkundal      28.5          31.5        40.0          -           7.2        1.4       56.5        34.9
* Including shared connection.



-1 5-
Table 2.4
PER CAPITA WATER CONSUMPTION OF URBAN POOR
City/Town             Per Capita Consumption from Municipal Sources (lcd)
Urban Poor                 Rest
Anand                      49                         87
Bhavnagar                  38                         74
(ndhra                     23                         42
Jamnagar                   36                         51
Nadiad                     69                        137
Rajkot                     70                        102
2.25    The wide disparity between the water available for consumption by
the urban poor and the rest is due in part to the basic water supply
deficiency. With improved supply, the per capita figures for urban poor
should correspondingly improve to an adequate level. The important
difference in the service level lies in the significantly lower proportion of
house connections enjoyed by the poor. The proportion of house connections
varies between 30% and 40% among the urban poor households compared to 60% to
80% among the rest. The proposed project will install additional standpipes
which will be located so that there are not more than lOOm distance between
dwellings and taps and not more than 100 people per tap. It is believed,
however, that financial incentives in the form of preferential tariffs could
induce a greater portion of urban poor to avail themselves of a more
accessible supply by installing private or shared house connections.
2.26    With regard to sanitation, private access to facilities is even more
restricted. In Savarkundla, about 90% of households use public latrines
(bucket type) and open areas, while the corresponding percentage for the
other cities approaches 60%. The proposals of the present project would
greatly change this situation. Modification of the sewerage systems coupled
with financial assistance for connection charges and improved household
plumbing will enable a larger percentage of the urban poor to use these
facilities. In addition, public latrine facilities will be increased so
that, statistically speaking, there are not more than 30 people per toilet.
2.27    The low-cost sanitation program, included in the project for 15
medium-sized towns, will benefit about 40% of the present population in these
towns. A recent GOG directive on low-cost sanitation makes it mandatory that
30% of expenditure on any such program be devoted exclusively to the
under-privileged (Harijan) group, who will receive these facilities free of
charge. It is proposed (para. 4.27) that other low income groups will also
be eligible for financial assistance in installing low-cost sanitation units.
ln these towns, public latrines will be kept to a minimum as it is intended



-16-
that private access to sanitation will be made available to the majority of
people within the Decade.
III.  PROJECT AGENCIES
The Water Supply and Sewerage Board (GWSSB)
3.01    GWSSB was established on August 20, 1979, consequent to the passing
of a Bill (No. 50 of 1978) by the Gujarat State Legislative Assembly.  The
duties and functions of GWSSB are described fully in the Gujarat Water Supply
and Sewerage Board Act, 1978. Essentially, it was established to take over
the functions of PHES but as an autonomous body. On Aprli 1, 1981, the
entire responsibilities of PHES were formally vested in GWSSB.
3.02    The functions of GWSSB are broadly concerned with the investigating,
preparing, and executing water supply and sewerage schemes, subject to
reimbursement for all costs by the local authorities concerned. The Act does
not permit the Board to carry out operation and maintenance of schemes
because they are normally handed over to the local authorities after
implementation. However, the Act does empower GWSSB to operate a system for
a specific period in case of mismanagement or when requested to do so by GOG.
3.03    The Municipal Corporations do not come under the jurisdiction of
GWSSB, but may make use of the services of GWSSB at their own discretion. An
amendment to the original Act was made in 1980 which permitted GWSSB to seek
financing for schemes to be undertaken on behalf of the Municipal
Corporations (MCs).
3.04    All members of the Board are appointed by GOG.  The Board is composed
of a Chairman, a Member Secretary, three ex-officio members and seven other
members. The Chairman, who normally holds office for a period of three
years, is required to have wide experience in a managerial or technical
capacity. The Member Secretary is required to be a qualified engineer, and
the three ex-officio members are representatives of various State Government
Departments. Of the other members, three are nominated from among elected
heads of local bodies, and the remaining four must be experts in economic or
development planning and engineering. The Member Secretary is the Chief
Executive Officer of the Board.
3.05    GWSSB is at present organized in six separate sections (see
Organizational Chart, Annex 8). To permit greater operational efficiency,
the organization has already been decentralized into several regionally based
circles. GWSSB's total sanctioned labor force is about 4,000, most of which
was transferred to GWSSB from PHES on April 1, 1981. There are 1,744
technical, 614 administrative, and 713 financial staff. Of the technical



-17-
staff, 21 are post graduates, 326 graduates, and 333 have diplomas or
certificates.
3.06    The mass transfer of staff from PHES to GWSSB was made under
deputation. The complete absorption of PHES by GWSSB would have been a more
desirable move as it would have been irreversible. However, it is understood
that the deputation of staff is a necessary transitional stage which would
lead to eventual permanent absorption. Appropriate staffing is vital to the
proper establishment of the institution and, in particular, to the success of
the current project. The present arrangement is acceptable to the
Association provided a satisfactory project team is maintained by GWSSB to
implement the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
such a team has already been appointed by GWSSB and that its structure would
continue to be acceptable to the Association throughout the implementation
period.
3.07    Although GWSSB by the recent transfer of staff has received the full
benefit of the technical expertise of the former PHES, the greatly increased
investment program of the Decade and the added responsibilities of operation
and maintenance in the rural regions (para. 3.10) will necessitate major
reorganization and further strengthening of its staff. GWSSB is weak in the
field of accounting and financial management. There are also some weaknesses
on the technical side.  The major works of the proposed project, involving
competitive bidding on a national and international scale, will require a
degree of specialized expertise which the present staff does not possess.
Initially, GWSSB will have to rely largely on consulting services to overcome
these technical deficiencies; consultants have been appointed to study the
improvement of management and financial systems.
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC)
3.08    AMC, one of the Municipal Corporations of Gujarat, is an autonomous
body established under the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1949. AMC is
outside the jurisdiction of GWSSB, and can act independently. It has a
competent and forward looking administration with a long-standing reputation
within the State of providing good public service. In the present
organizational structure, the water supply and sewerage departments are
separate entities within the engineering division of the Municipal
Corporation, and as such come under the immediate direction of the City
Engineer who is responsible to the Deputy Municipal Commissioner. (See
Organizational Chart Annex 9). The departments, however, are not
self-contained units. For instance, sector finance, including billing and
collection, is undertaken by the Accounts Branch of the Engineering Division.
Anticipating the greater responsibilities which expansion of the water supply
and sewerage system will entail, AMC has appointed consultants to advise them
on management reorganization of the sector, and to examine in particular the
advisability of granting greater autonomy to the water and sewerage unit both
in its technical and financial operations. During negotiations, it was
agreed that AMC would furnish the findings of this study to the Association



-18-
by June 30, 1983, and would implement such recommendations as are agreed
between AMC and the Association in accordance with a timetable satisfactory
to the Association.
3.09    The total work force of AMC in the water supply and sewerage sector
is currently about 1,300 of which 50 are qualified engineers and accountants.
There is a nucleus of capable engineering staff at a high level, who have a
wide experience in large capital works programs. It is well appreciated,
however, that the work load presented by the proposed project would be too
heavy a burden for the present staff who are on day-to-day operational
duties. Accordingly, consultant services will be used.
Operation and Maintenance
3.10    Beneficiary urban authorities whose components are to be implemented
by GWSSB will be required to operate and maintain their respective water
supply and sewerage systems and accordingly, after commissioning, these
systems will be handed over by GWSSB to the respective authorities. A high
level committee appointed by GOG to examine rural water policy has recently
made recommendations that new systems for problem villages both individual as
well as those forming part of regional schemes would be operated and
maintained by GWSSB on a permanent basis. Those panchayats of problem
villages, the supply systems of which are already in operation, would
continue to operate and maintain their own systems but their staff would be
paid and supervised by GWSSB. These recommendations have since received GOG
official approval and have been made subject to a new Government Resolution.
Assurances were received during negotiations that GWSSB would operate
regional water supply schemes and ensure that the local operators of
individual schemes are adequately trained.
Manpower and Training
3.11    A detailed summary of manpower distribution by main occupational
groupings, including staff vacancies at the time of appraisal and projected
recruitment rates over the period 1982-1990 is given in Annex 10.
3.12    Currently, no provision exists in Gujarat for organized training
programs relating to water engineering or the water sciences. The principal
source of training is the annual program of national courses arranged and
provided by the Central Public Health Engineering and Environmental
Organization (CPHEEO) and to a lesser extent by the National Environmental
Research Institute. In addition to one-year programs in post graduate and
diploma level public health engineering, a variety of useful, but ad-hoc,
short courses on operational subjects are provided by these agencies at
different locations each year. Inevitably, the number of students from a
particular state water institution is extremely small, but the course content
is of a generalized nature, and the bias of the program is heavily oriented
to the more specialized needs of managerial and professional level.



-19-
3.13    Recognizing the inadequacy of existing trainine ar.angements, GWSSB
has identified the need for the Board to establish a permanent training unit.
This has been included in the Organization and Management Study undertaken
by consultants. GWSSB proposes to include in the project a training
component designed not only to assist in establishing the Board's training
unit, but also to assist in the systematic development of a compre;-ensive
scheme of training and related education geared to the needs of the Gujarat
water supply and sewerage sector as a whole.
3.14    Because some in-country training provision, albeit limited, is
currently available for senior staff, it was agreed that initially the main
thrust of the training program to be designed and implemented under the
project would be directed at the training needs of junior and
sub-professional staff, particularly those concerned with the operation and
maintenance of sewerage and sewage treatment installations. The training
needs of operators required for the regional rural and village subprojects
would also be addressed.
3.15    The project training component, on which agreement was reached during
negotiations, would consist of the following elements:
(a)  A detailed study by consultants of the existing and
projected manpower and training needs of the Gujarat
State water supply and sewerage sector. Consultants
for this study will be appointed by October 1, 1982.
The study will formulate a training program which will
be furnished to the Association for its approval by
June 30, 1983. The approved program will be initiated
by January 1, 1984.
(b)  A broad forecast of the sector's in-service training
requirements (Annex 11) indicates an annual training load
of about 2,000 manweeks. This commitment cannot be met
solely through on-the-job training. The scope and
capacity of a GWSSB operated, off-the-job training
facility would be evaluated under the training study
and financial provision for the construction of a
first phase training facility will be included in
the training component.
(c)  Based on the study described in (a) above, a technical
assistance component would be provided to assist GWSSB
in selecting and developing a small cadre of training
staff, and assist the training staff to commission the
sector training facility and prepare and introduce
pilot priority in-house training programs.



-20-
(d) The GWSSB training program will include provision for
meeting the training needs associated with the low-cost
sanitation subproject. Training will be provided at
three levels, as follows:
(i)   orientation training for Municipal members
and Municipal Officers of the 15 subproject
towns;
(ii) subproject supervision training for GWSSB
deputy and junior engineers located at
appropriate construction circles; and
(iii) a licensing course for small contractors
interested in constructing latrines under
this subproject.
(e) Under the direction of the GWSSB Training Unit, a program will
be prepared for the training of regional rural and village
water supply operators in operations and preventive maintenance
duties and sanitation/hygiene practices.
(f) A training attachment and fellowship program for senior and
middle level staff will be drawn up by the GWSSB Training
Steering Committee. The program will give priority to
arranging short, intensive training attachments to
appropriate water utilities.
Project Implementation Arrangements
3.16    AMC would be responsible for the implementation of its own sewerage
project, while GWSSB would be responsible for the implementation of all the
other project components. GWSSB is essentially an implementation agency,
which, after completion of projects, hands them over to the beneficiary
authorities for operation. The sewerage component of Rajkot Municipal
Corporation (RMC) will also be implemented by GWSSB under the GWSSB project
agreement. RMC, as a Municipal Corporation, is empowered to execute its own
project, but, as it does not have adequate staffing for this purpose, it has
elected to transfer this responsibility to GWSSB. Prior to negotiations RMC
and GWSSB executed a satisfactory agreement on their working relationship for
the implementation of the RMC component of the project.



-21-
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01    The primary objectives of the present project are the following:
(i) To bring water to rural areas where water is scarce or
where existing water sources are unfit for human consumption.
(ii) To improve or extend water supply services in rapidly
developing urban centers.
(iii) To extend and upgrade sewerage systems in densely populated
areas in major urban communities.
(iv) To provide low-cost sanitation in medium-sized towns which
are unable to afford water-borne sewerage.
(v) To strengthen the institutional framework of the sector and to
establish training facilities for water supply and sewerage
personnel at all levels within the sector.
Project Priorities and Selection Criteria
4.02    In identifying a suitable project package, the technical and
administrative capability of the newly formed Board (GWSSB) and the
manageability of the number of sub-projects were factors of primary
importance. The priority placed by GOG on rural water supply development
merited the inclusion of this major component. For urban water supply,
optimal coverage was achieved by concentrating the investments in the major
population centers. Financial constraints and the question of affordability
dictated a drastic reduction in the number of water-borne sewerage schemes,
which were therefore limited to the major towns. To compensate for this and
at the same time maintain the overall project goals, a low-cost sanitation
component for a number of middle-sized towns was introduced. It was
considered premature to make significant investment in rural sanitation when
there existed a greater urgency to meet sanitation needs in the urban
centers. Prior to negotiations, resolutions were passed by participating
local authorities acknowledging their obligations under the project,
including the repayment of capital and interest on their loans.
Project Design
4.03    The preliminary engineering studies have examined all alternative
proposals with the objective of establishing least-cost solutions. Due to
the distinctive and well defined hydrogeological characteristics of the
region, there is little flexibility in the choice of water sources. In rocky
areas, expensive impounding of non-perennial rivers is generally the only



-22-
means of providing a reliable supply, and the three urban centers which are
located in this area have been able to obtain allocations of water from
irrigation schemes currently nearing completion.  Ground water reserves in
the alluvial areas are more extensive, and alternative well locations were
considered in conjunction with the configuration of the distribution network
to arrive at the most economic solution. Hydrogeological field
Investigations involving the test drilling of wells have already started so
that final designs may proceed with the assurance that the location and
adequacy of the wells are certain.
4.04    Alternative forms of sewage treatment were compared in the
preliminary studies, and oxidation ponds of various types were selected as
being most appropriate because of their ease of operation and maintenance,
simplicity of construction, as well as overall economy. For the larger
cities of Ahmedabad and Rajkot the size of population and restricted
availability of suitable land have led to the selection of the more compact,
mechanically aerated ponds, while for the smaller communities conventional
facultative ponds present the most satisfactory solution.  Water filtration
plants will be of the rapid gravity type, designed for conventional loadings
for the design period, but with sufficient hydraulic capacity to permit
expansion at a later date using advanced technology. To minimize the use of
mechanical equipment requiring careful maintenance, declining rate operation
of filters will be specified.
Project Description
4.05    The principal project elements are illustrated in Maps IBRD 15997,
15998, and 15999. A detailed description of all project elements is included
in Annex 12, and summarized below:
Urban Water Supply
a) Bhavnagar - A new water supply of 60 mld from Shetrunji
irrigation reservoir, the completion of the transmission main from the
reservoir to the town, the construction of new treatment facilities at Citra,
extensions to the existing treatment plant and distribution system.
b) Jamnagar - A new water supply of 25 mld from Und-l 1/ irrigation.
reservoir, the construction of an intake and pumping station at the
reservoir, a 25 km transmission pipeline to convey water to Jamnagar,
extensions to the distribution system, and new treatment facilities.
c) Godhra - A new water supply of 10.65 mld from the Pan-Am 1/
irrigation canal, the construction of an intake and pumping station at Betia
1/ Partly financed under the ongoing IDA Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project
(Credit No. 808-IN).



-23-
village, a transmission main to Kanelao tank, a treatment plant and booster
station, a subsidiary intake and pump house on the Meshri river, and one
elevated service reservoir.
d) Nadiad - The construction of nine new tube-wells yielding 16.8
mld and the installation of new pumping equipment on three existing tube
wcll,: '-e booster station, transmission mains, service reservoirs, and
extensions to the existing distribution system.
e) Anand - The construction of three new tube-wells yielding 5.28
mld, transmission mains, service reservoirs, and extensions to the existing
distribution system.
Urban Sewerage
f) Ahmedabad MC - Construction of two new peripheral trunk sewers,
one on either side of the Sabarmati River, to relieve the overloading of the
existing system. The sewers will terminate at two new pumping stations at
Pirana (621 mld peak capacity) and one at Vasna (795 mld peak capacity).
Sewage will be pumped from these stations to two treatment plants at Pirana
and Vasna (227 mld and 155 mld average flow capacity), consisting of aerated
lagoons, with final disposal to the Sabarmati River.
g) Rajkot MC - Construction of a new sewerage system for the
congested city center, with eight zonal lift stations, and one terminal
pumping station to convey sewage to a single treatment plant consisting of
aerated lagoons located near the northern city limits on the west bank of the
Aji River with final disposal to land irrigation.
h) Nadiad, Anand, and Savarkundla - Extensions to the existing
sewerage systems in the case of Nadiad and Anand, and a complete new system
for Savarkundla. All three projects will involve new, or reconstructed zonal
lift stations and final pumping stations to convey sewage to new oxidation
ponds of the faculative type, with final disposal to land irrigation.
Rural Water Supply
i) Regional Village Water Supply - Provision of new water supplies
to 255 villages divided into seven regional groups, each group being supplied
from one source. In all schemes, water supply is provided from multiple
tube-well installations.
j) Individual Village Water Supply - Water supply for 111 "no
source" (problem) villages, each supplied from its own individual source.
Fifty-three villages will be supplied from tube-wells, and fifty-eight from
dug (open) wells in hard rock.



-24-
Low-Cost Sanitatioi.
k) Low-cost sanitation for fifteen middle-sized towns identified in
the UNDP Global Project. Approximately 26,800 pour flush and additional
communal facilities with 440 seats are proposed.
Common Services
1) Workshops, stores, vehicles; equipment for sewer cleaning, leak
detection, and laboratories.
Cost Estimates
4.06    The estimated cost of the total project package is Rs 1,375 million
(US$162.0 million) including contingencies, customs duties and taxes. The
estimated costs of the project subdivided into the principal features are
summarized in Table 4.1, and the costs of the respective projects of AMC and
GWSSB are shown in Annexes 13 to 15.
4.07    Civil works costs are based on consultants' estimates of work for
which preliminary designs have been completed. Materials and equipment cost
estimates are based on information from Indian and foreign manufacturers and
suppliers. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed for. Price
contingencies for both local and foreign costs have been projected as
follows:
Local            Foreign
1983                       8.5%               8.5%
1984-86                    7.5%               7.5%
1987-90                    6%                 6%
Financing
4.08    An IDA Credit of US$72.0 million is proposed; this is about 50% of
the approximate project cost of US$162.0 million excluding customs duties
and taxes and those capital contributions to irrigation projects already
being financed by another IDA Credit.
Retroactive Financing
4.09    Some of the consultant services (basically those not yet contracted
at the time of appraisal) are proposed for retroactive financing. The
project provides for an estimated 1300 man-months. This will include
services for the management study for RMC (para 4.11) as well as for the
detailed engineering design and construction supervision. The training
component will also involve some consultancy services for a preliminary
study, and the costs of this study have been included in the overall training



-25-
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
% of Total
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total   ?roject Cost
LRBAN AREAS                   ----US$ Millioe7--    ---Rs Million----
Water Su/pply                          Equivalent-'
4/
Civil Works                 8.455       -         8.455   71.87    -           71.871  4.89
Equipment                   2.641      5.137      7.778   22.45   43.67        66.12    4.54
Subtotal                11.096      5.137    16.233   94.32   43.67         137.99    9.43
1/
Sewerage-
Civil Works                38.053       -        38.053  323.45      -        323.45   22.01
Equipment                   9.516      5.768    15.284   80.89   49.03        129.92    8.84
Subtotal                47.569       5.768    53.337  404.34   49.03        453.37   30.85
Low-Cost Sanitation-/
Labor                       1.605        -        1.605   13.64      -         13.64    1.00
Material                    5.454        -        5.454   46.36      -         46.36    3.41
Subtotal                  7.059        -        7.059   60.00                60.00    4.41
RURAL AREAS
Wtrup
Civil Works                 7.925        -        7.925   67.36      -         67.36    4.58
Material & Equipment        9.734      0.612    10.346   82.74    5.21         87.95    5.90
Subtotal                 17.659      0.612    18.271  150.10    5.21        155.31   10.57
COMMON SERVICES
Stores, Workshops
and Depots                0.353        -        0.353    3.00      -          3.00    0.22
Vehicles and Misc.
Equipment                   0.470        -        0.470    4.00      -          4.00    0.31
Subtotal                  0.823        -        0.823    7.00                 7.00    0.53
OTHERS
Hydrological Investgns.   0.135          -        0.135    1.15       -          1.15    0.08
Engineering: Consultants  2.174          -        2.174   18.48       -        18.48    1.36
GWSSB and AMC 5/           10.511        -       10.511   89.35       -        89.35    6.57
Training                    0.729      0.176      0.951    6.20    1.50          7.70    0.57
Land Acquisition            0.768        -        0.768    6.53       -          6.53    0.48
Loan Fund-House Conns_    2.352          -        2.352   20.00       -        20.00    1.47
Subtotal                 16.669      0.176    16.844  141.71    1.50        143.21   10.53
TAXES & CUSTOM DLTI3/
Subtotal                   13.139        -       13.139  111.68       -       111.68    5.59
Total before Conting.   114.014    11.693   125.707  969.15   99.41    1068.560  71.91
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                    8.176      1.532      9.708   69.500  13.020        82.520   6.09
Price                      22.540      3.858    26.398  191.558  32.778    224.336  22.00
Subtotal                 30.716      5.390    36.06  261.058  45.798    306.8556  28.09
Total Project Cost    144.730    17.083   161.813- 230.208 145.208   1375.416 100.00
1/  Includes sewerage proiects Alhmedabad and Rajkot MCs.
2/  Exchange Rate Applied US$l = Rs 8.50
3/  Includes contingencies.
4/  Includes contributions to IDA financed irrigation projects amounting to US$4.0 million
(See para 4.05).
5/  Engineering and Administration charges.



-26
costs. It is estimated that the cost of all these consulting services will
not exceed US$2.5 million equivalent, a portion of which ($2.35 million) is
proposed for retroactive financing effective from August 15, 1981, which was
the target date for signature of the contracts. Retroactive financing is
also proposed for hydro-geological investigations started before the monsoon
period in February 1981 and currently in progress. These investigations will
not involve a cost of more than US$150,000 equivalent. The total amount
proposed for retroactive financing is US$2.50 million.
Engineering and Management Consultants
4.10    GWSSB and AMC will implement their projects with assistance in
detailed engineering design and construction supervision from the engineering
consultants already employed by GWSSB, AMC, and RMC for the feasibility
studies. As GWSSB will implement the RMC component, the consultants formerly
retained by RMC will now be employed by GWSSB under a revised agreement.
Since the completion of detailed design is a critical item in the project
schedule, satisfactory contracts for these consulting services were signed
prior to negotiations.
4.11    Consultants have already been appointed by GWSSB and the AMC water
supply and sewerage department for:
(i)  management, organization and staffing, and the development
and implementation of project monitoring systems and
administrative procedures;
(ii)  establishment and implementation of commercial accounting
and financial management information systems; and
(iii)  development of tariff structures and levels based on
appropriate socio-economic research.
These services are not being financed under this project. In addition, an
organization and management study will be carried out for RMC by consultants
appointed by GWSSB. GWSSB, with the help of specialist training consultants
will also develop as part of tne project a comprehensive scheme of training
and education and establish the necessary training facilities. These
services, together with detailed engineering design, will be financed by IDA
under this project. GWSSB will be required to appoint consultants for the
RMC Organization and Management study and for the training study no later
than October 1, 1982. After completion of the Organization and Management
study, GWSSB shall be required to furnish the Association for its review the
findings of the study and, in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the
Association, implement such recommendations of the study as are agreed
between GWSSB, RMC, and the Association.



-27-
Implementation Schedule
4.12    Both GWSSB and AMC plan to implement the project in a four and a half
year period. AMC and their consultants commenced work on detailed design
in late 1981, while GWSSB, preparatory to the engagement of consultants (para
4.10), have been engaged in those preliminary aspects of detailed design
which have been assigned specifically to the GWSSB project team. The work is
estimated to terminate at the end of 1986, by which time all the works would
be in operation. It is anticipated that the rural components will be
completed about one year before the remainder of the project. The
preliminary engineering already accomplished has been sufficiently detailed
to define in broad outline the principal elements of the various projects,
and with minimal refinement the material and equipment requirements may be
specified within a relatively short period. Although detailed design may
continue throughout the first project year, preparation of tender documents
should be sufficiently well prepared to permit the bidding and award of major
material and equipment contracts in the third quarter of 1982. Furthermore,
by the end of 1982, most of the larger civil works contracts would have been
awarded. Pert charts have been prepared for all components of the project
and, as a typical example, the chart for AMC is included in Annex 16.
Simplified bar charts showing major activities for all project components are
included in Annex 17. The schedules are realistic, although completion of
the works within this time frame will require careful planning and good
management.
Procurement
4.13    All contracts for equipment and materials would be awarded under
international competitive bidding procedures with the exception of the
following: contracts under US$150,000; contracts involving the supply of
fragile water supply or sewer pipes of stoneware, asbestos cement, or
concrete fabrication which are difficult to transport and which are readily
available locally. The latter items would be procured under local bidding
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.14    Most of the civil works in this project would be carried out in a
large number of relatively small contracts, which are widely dispersed
throughout the project area, do not require special equipment or techniques,
are labor intensive, and are traditionally carried out by registered
contractors established in Gujarat or other parts of India. These works,
which include water distribution mains, sewers, sewage pumping stations, and
sewage treatment facilities, would not attract foreign bidders since it is
clear that overseas firms could not successfully compete with local bidders
for works of this type and size, and would therefore be subject to local
competitive bidding.



-28-
4.15    In evaluating bids for equipment and materials, domestic
manufacturers would be given a preferential margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
costs of the competing imports, or the existing rate of customs duty,
whichever is lower. Most of the contracts for equipment and materials are
likely to be won by local contractors.
4.16    Estimated requirements of materials and equipment for GWSSB and AMC
projects, together with tentative contract values are shown in Annexes 18
and 19. All bidding packages estimated to cost over US$150,000 equivalent,
all bids for treatment plant and pumping equipment, and civil works contracts
over US$500,000 equivalent, would be subject to IDA's prior review of
procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 85% of the total
estimated value of project costs. The balance of contracts would be subject
to random post review by IDA after contract award. The consulting services
under the project will be engaged in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for the use of consultants (August 1981).
Disbursement
4.17    The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a five-year
period. An estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 20.
Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a)  Equipment and material procured               100% of foreign
under international bidding.                  expenditures or 100%
(US$17.1 million)                             of local expenditures
ex-factory.
(b)  Equipment and material procured               40% of ex-factory
under local bidding, and                      costs and 40% of
civil works.  (US$45.0 million)               civil works.
(c)  Consulting services, training                 100% of costs.
and hydrogeological investigations.
(US$3.5 million)
(d)  Loan Fund for house connections               100% of amount
(US$2.40 million)                            disbursed.
(e)  Unallocated (US$4.0 million)
No disbursements would be made against administrative costs or against
contributions to projects financed under another IDA credit. Disbursements
for small civil works contracts for about Rs300,000 or less, for equipment
and material contracts for about Rs150,000 or less, and for amounts disbursed
under the house connections loan fund, will be made against statements of
expenditures, certified by the Project Director (or the appropriate officer
responsible for the disbursement of the house connections loan fund).



-29-
Supporting documentation for items disbursed against statements of
expenditures will be retained at one central location and made available for
IDA staff for review on request. The expenditures disbursed under statements
of expenditures, will be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable
to the Association. About $2,350,000 will be provided for disbursements in
respect of corLsultants services for payments made after August 15, 1981; and
up to $150,000 on account of hydrogeological investigations for payments made
after February 1, 1981 (para 4.09).
4.18    The estimated pattern of disbursement compares reasonably with the
typical disbursement profile for projects of this type, although the period
;of disbursement is somewhat shorter. Steps have been taken to prevent delays
in project execution by use of retroactive financing for critical activities
in the preparatory stage. Consultants have already been appointed for
detailed design and are working on preparation of bid documents for those
items of equipment and materials which involve long delivery times. This
should make it possible to award critical contracts at an early stage.
Hydrogeological investigations to test-prove ground water sources are also
well advanced so that detailed designs may proceed with the assurance that
the location and adequacy of sources are certain. The decision to use the
services of consultants, experienced in the planning and execution of major
projects and in the supervision of construction, will also help to maintain
progress in accordance with the project implementation schedule.
Land Acquisition
4.19    An assessment has been made of the land which has to be acquired
under the project, and an estimated cost has been included in the overall
project cost. It is anticipated that little land would be required for works
to be undertaken during the first year of implementation. Existing
legislation is adequate for the acquisition of land required. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOG that all necessary action to
acquire land needed for the project will be taken in accordance with the
project schedule.
Property and Household Connections to Sewerage Systems
4.20    In the past, lower income groups have been discouraged from
connecting to the sewerage system because of high connection fees and the
lack of adequate household plumbing facilities. This has given local bodies
financial problems through loss of revenue and operational problems by the
siltation of the system on account of low flows. Under the present project,
it is proposed that by-laws be enacted or regulations passed by beneficiary
local bodies to ensure that property owners connect their properties to the
sewerage systems where a sewer is provided within a specified distance of a
property. Owners in this category failing to connect, will be connected to
the system by the local authority who will then recover the cost of
connection from the property owner. It is further proposed that the cost of



-30-
connecting properties to sewers (property connections) will form part of the
construction costs of the system, and as such will be borne by the local
authorities and recovered as part of the sewerage charges. Furthermore, a
loan fund will be included as a separate item in the project for the purpose
of making soft loans available to property owners of the lower income group
to ensure that they can meet the expense of improving existing sanitary
facilities within the household and making connections to the sewerage system
within their property (household connections). These loans would be made
available to householders at the same interest rate as those made for loans
for low-cost sanitation by GOG, viz. 6% (see para 4.27) but the repayment of
loan and interest would be made in 60 equal monthly payments. The terms of
disbursement of the loan fund based on appropriate ability to pay criteria is
the subject of a GOG resolution dated March 29, 1982. It was agreed during
negotiations that all pertinent regulations and by-laws will be made
available to the Association by June 30, 1983.
Metering
4.21    Metering of domestic consumption is virtually non-existent in the
project area. In the cities of Jamnagar and Bhavnagar, an attempt at
domestic metering was made in the past when approximately 10% of domestic
connections in these cities were provided with meters. A recent inspection
of these meters has indicated that almost all are now out of working order.
On the other hand, those industrial and commercial consumers connected to the
system are being metered without exception throughout the project area, and
on this limited scale the meters have been kept in reasonable working order.
In the proposed project, the practice of metering industrial and commercial
users will be continued; however, in view of past experience, domestic
metering should be approached with caution. GWSSB and AMC propose to study
the feasibility of introducing metering in the project area. The findings of
these studies would form a good basis for re-examining the possibility of
gradually re-introducing domestic metering on a state-wide scale. In the
meantime, the use of orificed connections to reduce waste and provide a basis
for more flexible tariff structure for the low-income group is being
considered as a more viable immediate alternative. Both GWSSB and AMC have
agreed during negotiations to complete their studies for development of a
policy for domestic metering in the project area by December 31, 1983.
Distribution System Maintenance
4.22    Under the present conditions of low pressure and intermittent supply,
distribution losses are estimated to be about 20% of the flow reaching the
distribution system. These losses might increase to about 50% under normal
system pressures and with continuous supply. The system losses could be
substantially reduced by proper maintenance of the systems. GWSSB proposes
to establish a leak-detection unit, equipped and trained under the present
project, to detect and reduce unaccounted for water in the water supply
systems, and will continue leakage surveys of distribution systems on behalf



-31-
of local authorities after transfer of the systems to local authority
ownership, as well as providing this service at a later date to the whole
sector as required. It has been agreed during negotiations that this
leak-detection unit will be fully equipped, trained, and operatonal by June
1, 1983. By this date also GWSSB will be expected to have prepared a leak
detection program for review with IDA. Thereafter, this program will be
implemented and its progress reviewed with IDA at quarterly intervals.
Low-Cost Sanitation
4.23    Given the present backlog of service in the State, the objective of
providing 80% waste disposal coverage in urban areas by 1990 will involve
a massive investment both aL the National and State levels. It is alread-;-
apparent that achieving this target using water-borne sewerage at an average
per capita investment of about twice the average annual per capita income is
not viable. Furthermore, past experience has shown that, even when built
at considerable expense to the local authority, water-borne sewerage systems
in India have been grossly underutilized because the high costs involved in
household connections and the improvement to household plumbing have been
beyond the means of the average householder. The UNDP Global Project,
executed by the World Bank, was established with the objective of assisting
governments in achieving Decade goals, employing low-cost water supply and
sanitation techniques. Wishing to avail themselves of this service, GOI
requested assistance in preparing low-cost waterseal latrine feasibility
studies in seven States. Gujarat State was one of these, and subsequently 15
medium-size towns were nominated for study.
4.24    In the course of project preparation, a number of special studies
were undertaken, including the evaluation of the ongoing latrine conversion
programs, an assessment of pollution hazards to groundwater and water
distribution systems, optimization of alternative technical solutions, and
the social implications of scavengers rendered redundant by new practices.
The feasibility studies were completed prior to project appraisal; least cost
solutions were presented and the suitability of using these in the project
areas was established. The populations in the target towns range between
9,000 and 120,000 totalling 612,000 (Estimated 1980). At present, about
two-thirds of the-population have no house latrine facilities. The objective
of the first stage of the program (1982-86) is to reduce the backlog by half,
at which stage overall coverage will be 61%, of which 95% will have
individual household latrines, and the remainder community latrines.
Existing and projected service levels are shown in Annex 4.
4.25    The majority of latrines to be provided under the project will be
pour-flush, waterseal latrines discharging into underground leaching pits.
There are certain areas within the project towns where other alternatives
should be considered. These areas, generally where soil conditions are poor
or where there is a danger of contamination of drinking water sources, will
be investigated during the first stage program. However, for maximum impact
the project will concentrate in the first stage on the widespread application
of a single technology.



-32-
4.26    GWSSB possess the technical infrastructure necessary to implement
the program, and has the power to recover loan charges from local bodies.
It proposes to establish a project cell at its headquarters to provide
overall management of the low-cost sanitation component, and it has already
the necessary technical staff in almost all the project towns. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that this cell will be fully formed and
operational by January 1, 1983.
4.27    According to a recent GOG resolution relating to low-cost sanitation,
Harijans will receive 100% grant of the estimated cost of conversion or
construction. GOG will provide 75% grant, and the remainder will be provided
by the local authority. A minimum of 30% of the total program cost must be
devoted to this section of the community. For the non-Harijan community,
the households will have to contribute 20% of the cost from their own
resources, while GOG will provide 50% grant, and the balance of 30% will be
provided by the local authority. For certain of the low-income groups, this
20% initial payment may prove to be burdensome and assistance in the form of
a soft loan or grant will be necessary for such groups. Consequently GOG, on
October 6, 1981 passed a further resolution making such loans available to
non-Harijan beneficiaries with monthly incomes of less than Rs 500 on the
basis of 6% interest with loan and interest repayable in 24 equal monthly
payments. In order to regulate the construction of low-cost sanitation units
and to confine their use to areas where pollution of water sources would not
be a problem, the passing of by-laws satisfactory to the Association based to
a large degree on the model included in the UNDP Global Project feasibility
report would be a condition of disbursement of funds for each participating
town included in this component of the project. 1/
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Financial Performance
5.01    Gujarat has followed the practice, in urban areas, of covering the
major portion of the costs of its water supply and sewerage sector from funds
obtained from other revenue sources within the urban area. As a result, the
direct water supply and sewerage tariffs are, presently, far below the level
required to cover the sector's recurring costs including debt servicing
(Annex 21). Estimated operating results for the Project Cities for the year
ended March 31, 1981 were as follows:
1/ During negotiations, it was agreed that if this disbursement condition
was met prior to the signing of the Development Credit Agreement it would
be deleted.



-33-
Water Supply and Sewerage Sub-project cities
Ahmedabad   Rajkot   Anand   Nadiad  Savarkundla
(RsO000)
Direct Revenues                 40,589       2,950      794    1,402      125
Operating Expenses-other
than depreciation             51,715       4,311   1,103    2,603       509
Depreciation                    10,460       1,955      387      871       93
Total Operating Expenses    62,175         6,266   1,490    3,474       602
Operating Loss                 (21,586)    (3,316)   (696)  (2,072)   (477)
Interest Expense                18,897       3,039       93      230       48
Net Loss                       (40,483)    (6,355)   (789)  (2,302)   (525)
Water Supply Sub-project cities
Bhavnagar       Godhra      Jamnagar
(Rs'000)
Direct Revenues                              3,390           511         1,538
Operating Expenses other
than depreciation                          3,183           800         2,773
Depreciation                                   380            61           806
Total Operating Expenses                   3,563           861         3,579
Operating Loss                                (173)         (350)       (2,041)
Interest Expense                             5,395            94           736
Net Loss                                    (5,568)         (444)       (2,777)
5.02    Municipal bodies in Gujarat have traditionally maintained a
Government type cash accounting system rather than the commercial type
accrual accounts which more correctly match revenues and expenses of each
accounting period. In Annex 22, these cash accounts have been restated in
a commercial mode for all Project Cities. During none of the fiscal years
1977/78 through 1979/81, without giving consideration to funds provided from
indirect revenue sources, has any of the Project Cities been able to record
an operating profit on a commercial accounting basis. The reliance on
cross-sector subsidy has kept the direct tariffs extremely low and large
increases will be required to make the water supply and sewerage sector
self-sufficient. The following are the percentage increases which would have
been required in April 1, 1981, to produce from direct source all the funds
needed to cover the cash outlays required for the operation of the sector
for the FY1981/82:



-34-
Ahmedabad                    132%
Rajkot                       239%
Anandl/                       32%
Bhavnagar                    250%
Godhra                       104%
Jamnagar                     235%
Nadiad                       129%
Savarkundla                  425%
As shown in Annex 22, with the provision of new facilities proposed in the
project, the magnitude of the funds required to cover the costs is expected
to increase substantially.
5.03    For regional rural water supply schemes GOG established the practice
of limiting the contribution by local authorities for users of standpipe
services toward the recurring costs of operating and maintaining them to Rs 3
per capita per year. The remainder of the expenses are covered by GOG
subsidy. However, for individual rural schemes, which in some cases are as
complicated and as expensive to operate and maintain as the regional schemes,
GOG required the village panchayats to bear all costs of operation and
maintaining the systems. GOG is aware of the inconsistency of these
practices as well as of the other problems relating to the physical operation
and maintenance of rural schemes and, to alleviate these problems has agreed
to initiate a new practice which would raise funds for rural water supply in
problem villages, both regional and individual, by doubling the local
contribution from Rs 3 to 6 per capita per annum and by making available from
the ten percent surcharge on sales taxes, all additional funds required to
meet the balance of operating and maintenance expenses. During negotiations
agreement was reached that GOG will establish this practice upon completion
of construction in the project's regional and individual water supply
schemes.
Present Financial Position
5.04    The financial positions of the Project Cities at March 31, 1981, are
shown in Annex 22. These positions are weak, as demonstrated by the
following financial ratios; these enterprises can only operate because, as
municipal departments, they can resort to financial resources of other
departments to cover their shortfalls:
1/ Anand increased its water supply tariff effective April 1, 1981.



-35-
Current           Debt Service
Ratio             Coverage
Ahmedabad                                  .61                  Neg
Rajkot                                     .37                  Neg
Anand                                     1.34                  Neg
Bhavnagar                                  .19                   .02
Godhra                                    1.34                  Neg
Jamnagar                                   .31                   Neg
Nadiad                                    1.20                  Neg
Savarkund la                               .80                  Neg
Tariffs
5.05    Gujarat's practice of subsidization of its urban water supply and
sewerage sector from other revenue sources is not compatible with the
objective of developing viable public utility entities. Preferably, all
funds needed for the operations and maintenance of the urban water supply
and sewerage facilities, and for the servicing of related debt should be
obtained from the users of the services (present tariff is shown in Annex
21). GOG agrees with this concept but is adverse to a precipitous change
from its traditional policy of subsidization without a corresponding
reduction in those taxes which provide the balance of the required funds. It
believes that such a tax balancing program would be difficult to implement
over the short term. However, COG was receptive to a longer scale program
and, during negotiations agreed to one for each Project City which would make
the urban water supply and sewerage sector viable, which included the
following:
(i)   to increase the direct tariffs of the sector effective
April 1, 1983 so that revenues from these sources will be,
at a minimum, doubled.
(ii)  to increase revenues and/or reduce operating expenses to
ensure that, by March 31, 1988, the expenses of operations
and maintenance, including depreciation, are covered by
user charges and special taxes imposed and collected from
the users of the services. The schedule of steps toward
this goal is as follows:



-36-
Percent Coverage of O&M Costs
and Depreciation through
Direct Charges and Taxes
FY1985/86              FY1987/88
Ahmedabad, Anand, Bhavnagar,
Godhra, Jamnagar and Nadiad          85                     100
Raikot                               75                     100
Savarkundla                          65                     100
(iii)  thereafter, to increase revenues and/or reduce operating
expenses to ensure, by March 31, 1993, all costs of operations
and maintenance, excluding depreciation, and debt service
are covered by user charges and special taxes imposed and
collected from the users of the service. The schedule of
steps toward this goal will be provided to the Association
by August 1, 1982.
(iv)  until revenues derived from user charges and special taxes
cover all costs of operation and maintenance, excluding
depreciation, and debt service, funds required to meet the
shortfall will be allocated from other specific revenue
sources.
(v) tariff studies recently completed and now under review will
develop the structure necessary to produce the above goals.
The Association will provide GOG with its comments prior to
initiation of tariffs based on the findings of these studies.
5.06    As a result of the above tariff program, the estimated operating
incomes for the Project Cities for the fiscal year 1983/84, without giving
consideration to the planned subsidy from other sources, are as follows:
Operating Income (Loss)
Water Supply        Sewerage       Total
(Rs'000)
Ahmedabad                                889             24,531        25,420
Rajkot                                  (838)                             (838)
Anand                                    579                  10           589
Bhavnagar                             (4,102)                           (4,102)
Godhra                                    (90)                             (90)
Jamnagar                              (1,275)                           (1,27'5)
Nadiad                                (1,073)                           (1,545)
Savarkundla                             (531)                             (531)



-37-
Although these results, except for Ahmedabad and Anand, are not as favorable
as might be desired, they will be augmented by using portions of other
revenue sources in accordance with existing Gujarat practices (para 5.05).
Ahmedabad's and Anand's estimated operating results for the fiscal year
1983/84 are very acceptable with rates of return on average net fixed assets
in operations of about 12% and 5%, respectively. Gujarat valued the assets
of all Project Cities at depreciated current cost during the establishment of
the assets valuation as of March 31, 1981.
5.07    Notwithstanding the above commitments which will apply as a general
rule in the Project Cities, Jamnagar plans to increase its water tariffs by
three or four times in the immediate future. This increase, however, has
not been approved by GOG or the local government and has therefore not been
reflected in the financial projections (Annex 22-6).
5.08    Both Rajkot and Savarkundla, which will have entirely new sewerage
systems implemented under the project, have proposed to initiate a tariff
concurrent with the commissioning of the system which will provide funds
sufficient to cover costs of operations and maintenance, including
depreciation of the sewerage system.
5.09    The programns for cost recovery in both the water supply and sewerage
sectors of the Project Cities, as outlined above, appear to be attainable
with the possible exception of Rajkot. In Rajkot the costs associated with
the sewerage scheme are considerable and might lead to extremely high tariffs
which, based on socio-economic findings, might not be acceptable. Rajkot
has, with the assistance of consultants, made a review of its finances. The
findings of this study was that Rajkot was an above average
commercial-industrial city whose citizens have higher earnings than those of
most other cities in Gujarat (see para 6.06). Thus Rajkot has additional
resources which can be mobilized, as necessary, to meet the increased capital
and operating costs of the new sewerage and expanded water supply systems.
They have already, for the FY1982/83, initiated increased tax rates which
will, in this year, produce Rs five million additional funds. GOG will also
assist Rajkot by providing a 12 1/2% grant toward the construction costs of
the sewerage system which will reduce borrowing requirements by about Rs 30.7
million. Based on the findings of the study and the actions of RMC and GOG,
the Association accepts RMC's contention that the proposed sewerage project
is affordable for RMC and, during negotiations, agreed to include this scheme
in the IDA assisted project.
Future Financial Performance
5.10    Annex 22 shows the projected operations of the Project Cities for
the period FY1981/82 through FY1988/89. Assumptions used in these
projections are shown in Annex 23. For Ahmedabad the water supply and
sewerage operations for the fiscal year 1986/87 through 1988/89, when the
new system is completely operative, produce positive rates of return on



-38-
average net plant in operation (FY1986/87-5.10%, 1987/88-5.99%,
1988/89-8.63%). The other Project Cities will cover operating and
maintenance costs, including depreciation, by FY1987/88. Complete coverage
of all costs, operating and maintenance excluding depreciation, and debt
service is anticipated in all Project Cities by FY1992/93.
5.11    Annex 24 and 25 show the financial projections for the rural water
supply schemes. Funds for operating and maintaining these systems are
provided through an annual Rs 6 per capita local contribution and the
allocation from sales taxes (see para 5.03) are estimated to be adequate to
cover all costs of the project villages.



-39-
Financing Plan
5.12    The project financing plan is shown as follows:
GOG Loansl/                   GOG        Local
(Incl IDA           Deben    Grant       Contri-
Credit Proceeds)   tures    Tn-Aid    bution         Total
(Rs rillion)
Municipal Corp.
Sewerage
Ahmedabad                  223.0         114.9                           337.9
Rajkot                     174.7                   30.7       40.0       245.4
Urban Water Supply             159.5                    62.3       32.4       254.2
Other Urban Sewerage            90.1                    64.0                  154.1
Regional Rural Water
Supply                        85.62/                 112.4                 198.0
Individual Rural
Water Supply                  41.42/                  49.7                   91.1
Low-Cost Sanitation             29.2                    30.0        0.8        60.0
House Connection Loan Fund    20.03/                                           20.0
Training                         7.74/                                          7.7
Miscellaneous Equipment          7.07                                           7.0
Total Construction Cost        838.2         114.9    349.1        73.2    1,375.4
Interest During
Construction
Capitalized                  108.7                                         108.7
Total Cost                     946.9         114.9    349.1        73.2    1,484.1
US$ Equivalent                 111.7          13.6      41.2        8.6       175.1
1/ These funds will be reloaned or provided as Grant-in-aid as noted.
2/ These funds will be transferred to Rural Sector as Grant-In-Aid.
3/ These funds will be reloaned to GWSSB at an interest rate of 6% and a
repayment period of five years without a grace period.
4/ These funds will be passed to GWSSB as a Grant-In-Aid.



-40-
5.13    In addition to the cost of construction detailed in paragraph 5.12,
the Project Cities will have to provide funds to cover operating costs and
debt service, which exceed the funds generated by direct tariffs, from other
revenue sources and GOG will have to bear the operating cost of the Regional
Rural Water Supply Schemes which exceed the funds collected from local
contributions. During the project implementation period, FY1981/82 through
FY1985/86, it is estimated that these requirements will amount to about Rs
385 million of local contributions in the Project Cities and over Rs 75
million of contributions to rural water supply schemes.
5.14    During the project construction, the fund requirement to support
construction programs and operate and maintain the water supply and sewerage
system (including the servicing of debt) will put a severe strain on the
available sources of funds in some Project Cities and might possibly be
greater than the funds which can reasonably be made available through direct
tariffs, contributions from other revenue sources within the urban area and
from all available non-Government sources of borrowing. It appears that the
situation could occur in Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Godhra, and Nadiad. GOG is aware
of the critical situation and, where necessary, will provide appropriate
assistance probably in the form of additional government loans.
5.15    In order to assist IDA's review during the project construction
period assurances were obtained in the agreed minutes of negotiation that
each Project City will provide the Association with a copy of its approved
budget as soon as it is available. As a further precaution, during
negotiations, agreement was obtained that no Project City will further
increase debt related to its water supply and sewerage sector without IDA
agreement unless the net revenues from the sector cover the maximum debt
service at least 1.3 times.
Onlending Arrangements
5.16    GOG will provide funds for project implementation as loans or grants
based on the classification of the locality requiring the funds in accordance
with the following schedule:
GOG          GOG            Local
Classification                 Grant        Loan            Contribution
Class A Municipality (pop 100,000 or over)
Water                         20%           65%                15%
Sewerage                     35%           65%
Class B Municipality (pop 50,000 to 100,000)
Water                         50%           50%
Sewerage                     45%           55%
Class C Municipality (pop less than 50,000)
Sewerage                     55%           45%
Rural Problem Village
Water                        100%



-41-
5.17    The municipal corporations of Ahmedabad and Rajkot are not normally
eligible for any grant funds. Therefore, for Ahmedabad, GOG will provide a
loan equal to AMC's portion of the IDA proceeds plus half the remainder of
construction costs. For Rajkot, GOG will provide a loan equal to the fund
requirement for the project in excess of a Rs 40 million local contribution
to construction and the Rs 30.7 million grant from COG (see para. 5.09).
5.18    Government loan funds, including the portion of the proceeds of the
IDA credit, will be onlent to Ahmedabad (for its requirement) and to GWSSB
(for the requirement of all other Project Cities) at an interest rate of 8
1/2% per annun for a period of nineteen years including a four year grace
period. This interest rate approximates the average inflation rate during
the projection period and should result in a modest positive position during
most years. GWSSB will onlend the proceeds of the GOG loans to the Project
Cities on the same terms and conditions. Interest accrued during the four
year grace period will be added to the principal amount of the loan at the
end of the grace period and will be subject to payment along with the other
principal amoumts in equal installments of principal and interest over the
fifteen year repayment period. GWSSB will administer the loans for all
Project Cities except Ahmedabad which will be responsible for direct
repayment of its loan to GOG. GWSSB-s Projected Loan Fund is shown as Annex
27. Based on the financial condition of the Project Cities, which are not
particularly strong, these on-lending terms are appropriate. These
arrangements were agreed during negotiations.
5.19    Subsidiary Loan Agreements will be negotiated between GWSSB and the
Project Cities (except Ahmedabad which will have its own Project Agreement).
These Agreements will reflect the on-lending terms and the other commitments
made to IDA by GOG on behalf of the Project Cities. These agreements will be
executed before any disbursement of IDA Credit funds will be made on the
associated sub-project.
Commercial Accounting Systems
5.20    The water supply and sewerage sector in the Project Cities has been
hindered by the absence of an accounting system which segregated financial
transactions relative to its operations from those of all other sectors of
municipal government. The accounting system now utilized is the normal
municipal cash accounting system which does not match revenues and expenses
by accounting period or provide adequate financial information to management.
As a result of these shortcomings, the management of the water supply and
sewerage sector have developed little financial understanding or expertise.
Management has not, in the past, prepared cash forecasts, or attempted to
evaluate the adequacy of its tariffs or taxes relative to the sector.
5.21    Consultants have been employed (para 4.11) to design and install a
commercial accounting and financial management system for GWSSB, the Project
Cities, and the rural areas. These new systems will augment and modify the



-42-
existing accounting systems in urban areas to obtain results desired from a
commercial accounting system. For rural areas the system will be basic and,
therefore, can be maintained with very limited effort. The system design has
been completed; manuals have been prepared; and the bulk of the training
completed. The systems will be made operative in all project areas effective
April 1, 1982 so that financial results will be available for the fiscal year
1982-83. This schedule was reconfirmed during negotiations.
Audit
5.22    The commercial accounts of the Project Cities and GWSSB will be
subject to audit by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors
will submit a commercial audit report including financial statements (Income
Statement, Fund Flow Statement and Balance Sheet) and their certifications as
to the representativeness and fairness of these statements. The first year
to be audited will be the fiscal year 1982/83. The report will be submitted
to IDA within nine months of the end of the fiscal year under audit.
5.23    In addition to the conventional audit report discussed in paragraph
5.22, the auditors will be required to certify that all funds provided to
GOG through the IDA credit have been used on the project identified for IDA
financing.  Where IDA reimbursement has been requested through the Statement
of Expenditure Practices, the auditors will be required to certify that files
of supporting data are maintained at a central location and that these files
fully support the requests for disbursement. Assurances that these audit
practices will be followed were obtained during negotiations.
Billing and Collection
5.24    Presently revenue billings both of usage charges and taxes are made
on an annual basis. This practice results in an uneven inflow of funds tlaus
making cash planning difficult. The Project Cities will keep the billing and
collection practices under constant supervision and will shorten the billing
period as the need to improve cash flow can justify the increase in staff
needed for more frequent bill preparations. Where metered water usage is the
basis for charges, the billing will be for a period consistent with the meter
reading. As a measure of the adequacy of collections performance, the
Project Cities will be required to maintain their fiscal year end unpaid
customer billing balances at an amount which does not exceed 30% of the
annual billings for these services in that fiscal year. Assurances that a
collection program will be initiated which will insure this level of accounts
receivable by March 31, 1986 was obtained during negotiations
Insurance
5.25    GOG has followed the practice of restricting the coverage of risks
by an external insurance agency to those related to vehicles. As the
remainder of the water supply and sewerage property is the type which is not



-43-
normally subject to damage other than by major disaster, GOG prefers to
follow the practice followed in other government undertakings of self
insurance with government providing funds for major losses if, and when, they
occur. This concept is acceptable.
House Connection Loan Fund
5.26    In order to ensure adequate utilization of the sewerage system, GOG
proposes to make funds available to the lower income groups to cover the
costs of connecting to the sewer system (household connection) and making
necessary improvements to the inside plumbing and sanitary facilities. For
this purpose, IDA proposes to include US$2.36 million in the project credit.
This fund will be onlent to GWSSB at 6% interest repayable over five years
without a grace period to be used by the Project Cities as required (see para
4.20).
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Marginal Cost Analysis
6.01    The concept of using the average incremental cost (AIC) to express
the long-run marginal cost that should be recovered in today-s tariffs, is
suitable for a long-term, year-by-year system investment programs such as the
one envisaged for GWSSB and AMC. The time slice of the investment program
selected for purposes of AIC calculation is the period between the financial
years 1981/82 and 1985/86. Incremental recurrent costs associated with this
investment are included for the remainder of the 40 years average life of
assets.
6.02    The total water and sewerage AIC, in constant prices, is expressed
as the present value of the investment and incremental operating cost
streams, distributed over the present value of the stream of incremental
water output. This is not to imply that all sewerage expenditures should be
allocated to water pricing, but merely to choose a yardstick for tariff
adequacy. Using a discount rate of 10%, the water AIC-s per cubic meter
rates are as follows:
Rupees per Cubic Meter
Water            Sewerage         Total
Ahmedabad                           .10                 .07           .17
Rajkot                             2.94                2.03          4.97
Anand                               .38                 .76          1.14
Bhavnagar                           .55                               , 55
Godhra                              .95                               .95
Jamnagar                            .79                 _.79
Nadiad                             1.43                1.93          3.36
Savarkundla                         -                  1.47          1.47
Total Project Cities                .26                 .18           .44



-44-
Internal Rate of Return
6.03    The project itself is defined as the aggregate of a number of
scattered independent sub-projects within the overall Gujarat water supply
and sewerage investment program, incorporating urban as well as rural
elements. As many of the subprojects are not suitable for individual
cost/benefit analysis, being improvements or sewerage facilities only, the
analysis is performed for the total five-year investment program in water
supply and sewerage of the eight project cities, including some investment
not contained in the project. The rural components of the project do not
lend themselves to quantification of benefits, and are excluded (for a
discussion of benefits, see para. 6.08). Total capital costs of the eight
cities' investment program during 1981/82-1985/86, and the subsequent
incremental recurrent costs, are expressed in CIF or equivalent border price
terms, using appropriate standard and shadow/market wage rate conversion
factors. Benefits are quantified as the minimum willingness to pay as
represented by the agreed tariff and similar revenue levels from 1983/84
onwards. Only tariff changes in real terms over time are considered, i.e.,
all costs and benefits are expressed in 1981 prices.
6.04    The minimum internal rate of return for the eight cities' investment
program is 2.5%. This rate of return, using revenues as a proxy for
benefits, underestimates the real economic rate of return for the project
since it excludes benefits which cannot be meaningfully quantified. For
example, the consumers' surplus, the amount by which consumers value
additional consumption above the price paid for it, is not included. A
consultants' study, prepared in May 1981, indicates that a tariff level
considered to be "affordable" by consumers would be significantly above
present tariffs. Other non-quantifiable benefits include increases in labor
productivity and employment opportunities, an increase in property values,
the promotion of economic development, and, most importantly, the reduction
in disease incidence. If revenue-based benefits are increased by only about
50% to account for the non-quantified benefits, the program's internal rate
of return rises to about 10%.
Internal Rate         Net Present Value
of Return (%)         At 10% (Rs mn.)
Base Case:  Revenue Benefit          2.5                   -425
Benefit increased 50%                9.6                   - 24
Pricing Considerations
6.05    The Project Cities except Ahmedabad propose to continue to charge
for water at a flat rate based on the size of connection. Metering will be
studied and possibly employed selectively for large consumption customers.
Ahmedabad proposes to initially continue its practice of charging for water



-45-
through a water tax until the feasibility of metering on a wide scale has
been determined (see para 4.21). All Project Cities propose to charge for
sewerage service through a sewerage tax.
6.06    GWSSB has employed consultants to perform a socio-economic and tariff
study for all the Project Cities except Ahmedabad. Through this study it is
hoped to develop a pricing policy which will eventually make the sector
completely self-sufficient while not being overly burdensome to the lower
income groups. They hope this goal can be achieved while maintaining a
lowest "life-line" rate at about 2% of household income. Monthly household
incomes for representative cities are shown as follows:
Monthly                                   Percent of Households
Income Rs         Rajkot      Anand    Bhavnagar    Godhra    Jamnagar    Nadiad
Up to 350           14.2       38.9        29.4         39.0        26.2        26.4
351-500             24.2       19.9        25.0         18.0        17.8        22.7
501-1000            26.7       25.6        33.2         32.0        37.7        30.1
1001-1500           12.1        8.3         7.0          7.0        10.4        13.8
Above 1500          12.8        7.3         5.4          4.0         7.9         7.6
100.0     100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0
Having, during negotiations, agreed on full cost recovery and on the timing
of steps to be taken to reach this goal, the tariff study can now be
finalized incorporating these criterion. The tariff study will also have to
deal with the affordability of tariffs to the various income groups based on
the agreed degree of cost recovery. However, even if the 2% "life line rate"
cannot be maintained, preliminary studies have shown that water supply and
sewerage service can be provided at most locations and the majority of costs
recovered without requiring charges for this service to exceed 4 to 5% of the
user-s income.
6.07    Ahmedabad has also employed consultants to conduct a socio-economic
and tariff study. During negotiations it was agreed that this study will be
submitted to IDA for comment before the study recommendations are initiated.
Environmental and Health Impact
6.08    The urban water supply component will enable the level of the present
supply in the project area to be improved, even in the face of increased
demand occasioned by the growth of population. The incidence of water
related disease (Annex 29) should decline with the more uniform distribution
of piped water, improved pressures, and longer supply hours, particularly for
consumers using public taps. In the rural areas, the impact of improved
water supply will be more marked; the high incidence of diseases in some
rural areas is directly attributable to the high salt content in existing



-46--
water sources, and in instances where improved pipes supply has been provided
from pure sources, there has been a significant reduction in such ailments.
In addition to public health benefits, an easily accessible water supply will
greatly alleviate the hardship imposed by long walking distances to existing
sources. Improvements and extensions to the sewage collection systems will
prevent contamination of street, footpaths, dwelling areas, and water
courses, which presently occurs when sewage flows exceed the capacity of t!he
system. Thus, the project, by ensuring an equitable distribution of
wholesome water, as well as improved collection and disposal of human waste,
will reduce potential sources of disease that presently pervade both urban
and rural communities, and in particular the urban slum areas.
Impact on Poverty Groups
6.09    The service levels enjoyed by the urban poor before and after project
implementation have been described in paras 2.23 to 2.26. Additional public
taps will be provided to serve better the section of the urban community
living in properties not connected to the water system. These will comprise
largely the slum areas. The design targets in this respect are 100 people
per public tap, and a distance of not more than 100 meters between dwellings
and taps. As a consequence, the daily waiting times for water collection
will be reduced and walking distances shortened, in addition to service level
improvements. It is also anticipated that preferential tariffs could induce
a greater margin of urban poor to avail themselves of a more accessible
supply by installing private or shared house connections. In rural
communities where the supply is only by standpipe, the design criteria
relating to the physical location of standpipes ensures that all sections
of the community will enjoy an equal level of service. In the case of
sanitation, where private access to facilities is more important, the
financial assistance provided in the project for connection charges and
improved household plumbing should permit fuller use of the public sewerage
system by the poverty groups. For the low-cost sanitation program, it is
already mandatory that a minimum of 30% of the program expenditure be devoted
to the underprivileged Harijan community who will receive these facilities
free of charge (para 4.27).
6.10    It is difficult to isolate with any degree of precision that portiLon
of the investment which is allocated specifically to poverty groups, as the
urban poor in the project are not concentrated in well-defined slum areas
but dispersed throughout the urban areas. With the facilities and financiLal
assistance provided to the poor under the project as outlined in para 6.09,
it is reasonable to assume, however, that the poverty groups will receive
benefits which are proportional to their population. On this basis, Annex 29
indicates that of the total project investment of US$162 million, US$49
million or 31% is allocated to the urban poor. The urban poor component of
the IDA credit would be about US$25 million.



-47-
Least-Cost Solution
6.11    The engineering studies have examined all feasbile alternatives and
have costed options at discount rates of 8%, 10%, and 12% to determine the
least cost solutions. The design of water distribution and sewage collection
systems has been done by computer, programmed to define the most economic
network having regard to configuration and pipe size.
Project Risks
6.12    The project is complex and extensive and its execution will require
a considerable amount of management and coordination input on the part of
the implementing agency. GWSSB is a newly formed Board and, although it is
staffed largely by personnel who have worked together in the former PHES,
it may be subjected to additional stress during project implementation on
account of its organizational development. Some anticipatory measures have
been taken to offset these factors by the early appointment of consultants
who will share in project related responsibilities, but nevertheless some
delays in achieving set targets may be expected.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached
7.01    Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following:
(a)  with AMC on the implementation of the findings of the
organization and management study (para 3.08);
(b)  with GOG on the practices relating to rural water
supply (para 3.10);
(c)  with GWSSB on a sector training program (para 3.15);
(d)  with GWSSB on the conduct of an organization and
management study for RMC and the implementation of its
findings (para 4.11);
(e)  with GOG on the acquisition of land (para 4.19);
(f)  GWSSB will furnish regulations, by-laws, and loan-fund
arrangements for sewer connections (para 4.20);
(g)  with AMC and GWSSB relative to its review of the feasibility
of metering (para 4.21 and 6.05);



-48-
(h)  with GWSSB on the formation of a leak detection unit
and the initiations of a leak detection program (para 4.22);
(i)  with GWSSB on the establishment of a project cell
for low-cost sanitation (para 4.26);
(j)  with GOG on the method for obtaining funds to cover the
operating and maintenance costs in rural water supply
schemes (para 5.03);
(k)  with AMC, and GOG on the urban water supply and
sewerage tariff revisions (para 5.05);
(1)  with AMC,  and GOG on the establishment of a
standard debt limitation covenant (para 5.15);
(m)  with GOG, and GWSSB on the on-lending terms
(para 5.18);
(n)  with GOG, AMC, and GWSSB on confirmation of the schedule
for installing the commercial accounting systems (para 5.21);
(o)  with GOG, AMC, and GWSSB on annual audit requirement
(paras 5.22 and 5.23);
(p)  with AMC, and GOG on the goals for billing and
collection (para 5.24);
(q)  with AMC on agreement of the tariff study (para 6.07).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.03    The following action should be completed before funds are disbursed
against expenditures of the related sub-projects:
(a) with GOG on the regulations governing low-cost
sanitation (para. 4.27);
(b) signing of subsidiary loan agreements (para 5.19).
Recommendation
7.04    With the indicated agreement of the items noted above, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$72 million equivalent.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Sector Investments
1974-1978                                    1980-1985
Subsector                                1966-1976                      (5th Plan)            1978-1979               (6th Plan)
Total    Annual Average          Total   Annual Average          Total    Total        Annual Average
Rs        Rs       Rs/Capita    Rs        Rs      Rs             Rs         Rs         Rs      Rs
Million   Million        (a)      Million Million  Capita (b)   Million   Million   Million Capita (b)
Urban Water Supply           103        10.3         2.20       37.90    7.58    0.86          59.85        48.7        9.74    NA
Urban Sewerage                14         1.4         0.30       11.05    2.21    0.25           5.049       27.0        5.40
Rural Water Supply           171        17.1         0.89      186.00   37.20    1.70         107.385      350.8       70.16
Rural Sanitation                2        0.2         Negl.       1.78    0.36    0.02           0.009        2.60       0.52
Public Latrines                 -        -            -          -      -           -           -            -          -
Latrine Conversion Program    -          -            -          3.37    0.67      NA            NA          8.0        1.60
Research and Development        -        -            -          0.74    0.15      NA           1.920        0.5        0.10
Water and Air Pollution         -        -            -          3.40    0.68      NA            NA          5.0        1.00
Government Contribution
to GWSSB                           -                 -          -      -           -           -            5.0        2.50
Total Government Allocation 920         29.0         1.09      244.24   48.85    1.59         174.221      447.6       91.02
LIC Loans                      NA                              112.00                          33.100      250.0       50.00
Commercial Bank Loans         NA                               109.72                          24.500      150.0       30.00
World Bank Loans                                                 -                              -          660.0      132.00
Total Investments              NA                              465.96                         231.821    1507.6       303.02
Note:  (i)   Sector Investments of the four corporations (BRAS) are not included in the above figures.
(ii)  Sector Investments of Urban Water Supply and Sewerage are i4cluded only for Government Grant and Loan Channeled
through GWSSB, but not those investments financed by the Municipalities' own funds.
(a) Based on 1971 population in the sectors concerned, or total population, respectively.
(b) Based on 1978 population in the sectors concerned, or total population, respectively.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Urban Water Supply Service Levels - Summary
Present Service Levels                                                             Future Service Levels
(1980/81)                                                                         (1990/91)
Consumption       Consumption                                                 Consusiption         Consumption
House           Standposts    Other             (lcd) for        (lcd) for       House           Standposts   Other            (lcd) for          (lcd) for
Connection       (Municipal    Sources            Population       Population   Connections        (Municipal  Sources          Population          Population
Town      (Municipal Water)    Water)   (Non Municipal)    Served by            Served by  (Municipal Water)   Water)         (Non            Served by          Served by
X                Z             %           House Connection  Standpost                             %     Municipal)    House Connection         Standpost
Nadiad          68               15             17               137             40              75               15           10               129                  40
Godhra          56               22             22                42             15              71               15           14                79                  30
Anand           64               21             15                87             33              66               21           13               115                  SO
Jamnagar        75               14             11                51             31              81               10            9                69                  35
Bhavnagar       74               22              4                74             22              81               18            1               124                  40



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER StPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
URBAN AREAS SEWERAGE
Salient Data and Service Levels
AWSEDABAD                                RAJKOT                                     NADIAD                                 ANAND                                S 7ARK1INDLA
1980/81    1985/86       1989/90      t980/81       1985/86      S990/91      1980/81       1986/87      1990/91      1980/81       1986/87      1990/91       1980/81    1986/87        1990/91
i.   PepulaLion (Nss.)    2202000        2547000       2830000      500000       590000        690000       138841       161693        178478       91300         114849       133122       49239         53454       57085
2.   Population in.Areas
to be provided with
Sewerage System
(Nos.)                2092000       2354000      2830000      395000        466000       566000       138841        161693       178478       53000          91259        102459       49239        53454        57085
3.   Population Served
3.01 By Connections
-nos                   2092000      2354000      2830000       Nil          373000       487000         91635       134205       151706        22825         45939         59905       Nil           42763       48522
-%of (2)                   100           100          100       -               80            86           66           83            85          43             50           58           -            80          85
-% of (1)                   95         92.4           100       -            63.22        70.58            66           83            85          25             40           45           -            80          85
-persons per
-onnection                 10            11           13       -               26            26           12            12           12          12             12           12          -             12          12
3.02 By septic tanks
-nos                      Nil         Nil           Nil        298000       125000       130000          4165         1617          1785       24651         22970         19968       13294          4811        2854
-% of (1)                   -             -           -          59.6        21.19         18.84            3             1            1          27             20           15           27            9            5
3.03 By conservancy system
-non                      Nil         Nil           Nil         63000        20000         10000         Nil          Nil           Nil          913          Nil           Nil           985         Nil           Nil
-X of (1)                   -             -           _          12.6         3.39          1.45         Nil          Nil           Nil            1          Nil           Nil             2         Nil           Nil
3.04 By other means
-non                   110000       193000          Nil        139000        72000        63000         43041        25871        24987        42911         45940         53249       34f0           5880         5709
-X of (1)                   5          7.6            -          27.8        12.20         9.13            31            16           14          47             40           40           71           11            10
4.   Connections (Nos.)
-domestic              178695       182970        186390       Nil           12194         15925         9000        11184         12642        1902           3924         4992           -          3564         4044
-commercial             19855        20330        20710       Nil             1435          1873           80           100          125          56            130          148           -             5             6
-industrial             10450        10700         10900      Nil              717           933            3             3            3           -             -             -                        -             -
-Total                 209000       214000       218000        Nil           14346         18731         8083        11287         12770        1958           4054         5140           -          3569         4050
5.   Sewerage Systems
-laterals (kns)           950          950           950       Nil          150.54        150.54         56.5        148.1         148.1       14.08           35.9         35.9        Nil           31.2         31.2
-intercepters (kma)       110           129          160       Nil           44.14        44.14          14.2         39.2          39.2        3.69            9.42         9.42       Nil            6.8          6.8
-outfalls (kms)            15            22           22       Nil            6.85          6.85          1.25         1.4           1.4        2.5             4.4           4.4       Nil            3.53          3.53
-pumping stations
(Nos)                     19           23           29       Nil               10            10            3            7             7          1               2           2         Nil              1             1
-treatment works
(Nos)                      2            4             4      Nil                I             I            I            I             I          1               2           2         Nil              1             1
Note: Totals may not agree doe to rounding.
Data for intervening years are available in the Project File.
*: One property connection shown as Domestic connection, consists of two house connections.
*    Force Mains.



IDWIA
GWd8NAT WATER SIWPeLY AD SEhERaCE PROJECT
LoW cOsr SAITATION
iEcistitq ado Pnloedi Facilities
URSTiNG FACILITIES (1980)                                           PI90080 1UJ1: STAGE I OF THE PIOJECT
NaSe         Poppl.tio-  Popolatio- Served  Per-cotage of Popolatloo Servd  Percentage of Percentage of    e of  PoppS PtloP  PropoNed    Perent6 ge of  16,4-e.-  Population  Percentage of  Total in    Ser-ci- Lenel
of              in     Thro-gh Private       Total      Throogh ftitiog     Total        Total       wt.is    To be Servd              Tot.1         of      Served       Total      Perenta.e   at eod of
T-                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~(Ba-ijas Ppop give  oolto  Seats  PopoIrtico     985-86
ToO,,           1980    WaterReal Latrlses  Population   Waterseal Corooity Popolation     poplatloo   Proposed   (i   pop.              (1980)                             (1980) SePat                      aa
(1980)         Latrloe.       (1980)        Ser-ed                 Pin beocaet)f Totaa
Anreli        51,459       11.671           22.46           2,220            4.31          26.77      1,362       8,897 (800)            17.29         60      1.200       2.33           19.62          46.39
Bansada        9,242        2,843           30.76             320            3.46          34.22        293       1,617 (160)            17.49         --        --         __            17.49          51.71
Bharoch      120,690       54,608           45.24             -               --           45.24      3,163      25,719 (4,000)          21.31        220      4,400       3.65           24.96          70.20
D.esa         35,200       10,192           14.13           5,640           16.02          30.15      1,779      10,641 (3,500)          30.23        100      2,000       5.68           35.91          66.06
Dh.oraji      72,123        8,186           16.95           2,380            3.30          20.25      5.005      27,850 (1,100)          38.61         --        -          -             38.61          58.31
Dhrangadhra    48,280       7,280           20.65           2,080            4.31          24.96      1.665      12.089 (1,200)          25.04         60      1,200       2.48           25.04          50.00
Godhra        83,849       25,728           30.69           4,160            4.96          35.65      4,449      22,215 (700)            26.49         --        -                        26.49          62.14
Baij          11,604        2,728           23.51             --              -            23.51       640        3,466 (350)            29.87         -         __         _             29.87          53.38
MHadvi        29,847        8,994           30.14          10,080           33-77          63.91      1,720       8,174 (1,000)          27.39         -         --         -             27.39          91.30
Maogrol       39,357       13,117           33.32             400            1.01          34.33      1,245       9,697 (700)            24.64         --        --         -             24.64          58.63
Pra-tij       15,360        2,031           13.23             -               --           13.23      1.173       7,567 (550)            49.26         --        -          --            49.26          62.86
Radhanpur     20,521        4.850           23.63           1,960            9.55          33.18      1,163       7.430 (1,100)          36.21         -        --                        36.21          69.39
Vijap-r       16,603        5,077           30.58           1,600            9.64          40.22       584        3,294 (330)            15.71         --       -           --            15.71          55.93
Vyara         20,966        9,358           44.64           1,320            6.29         50.93        725        3,655 (1,430)          )7-43         --       -                         17.43          68.36
Wadhwan       36,276        7,659           21.13           1,040            2.87          24.00      1,814      10,137 (850)            27.94         _                                  27.94          51.94
Total     611,930      174,322           28.49          33,200            5.42          33.91     26,780      162,448 (17,770)        26.55         440     8,800       1.43           27.98          61.89



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Urban Water Supply Demands - Summary
Total Supply (Gross)            Present Supply (1980/81)           Proposed Water Supply (1990/91)
Design       Present          Design         Total (Mld)       Domestic (Mld)   Total (Mld)    Domestic (Mld)
Town         Year          (Mld)             (Mld)          (Net) 1/           (Net)           (Net)l/             (Net)
Nadiad        2001        21.10              37.9            15.82            13.73            21.16            18.47
Godhra        1996         3.50               9.5             2.66             2.20             6.94              6.29
Anand         2001         9.00              19.00            6.02             5.6             12.29             11.55
Jamnagar      1990        30.50              55.00           22.15            12.92            43.67 2/         24.05
Bhavnagar    1996         35.14              73.65           25.65            18.00            48.87            38.08
1/  Unaccounted for water assumed to be 22% of gross demand.
2/ Includes Military supply.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
URBAN AREAS WATER SUPPLY
Salient Data and Service levels
JAMNAGAR                                        BHAVNAGAR                               NADOAD                                  ANAND                                   GODHRA
1980/81      1985/86      1990/91      1980/81       1986/87      1990/91      1980/81       1986/87      19           1980/S1       195/86       1990/91    R190/81         1985/86       1990/9t
1.    Population (Nos.)   301816         350572        406414       300000       336325        362953       138841       161693        178478       91300        110555        133722       82000         92989       104184
2.    Population served
2.01   by connections
-nos                  226362       273446       329195        222000       262333       293992         94412       116419       133858        58432         70755         88256       45920         60443        73971
-% of total
population               75            78           81           74           78            81           68           72            75          64            64            66          56            65           71
-average no/
connection                9             9            9            9            9             9            7             7            7           8              8            8            9            9            a
2.02  by standpoats
-nos                  42254        38563        40641         66000        63902        65332         20826        24254        26772        19173         23216         28082       18040         17668        156!8
-X of total
population               14            11           10           22           19            18           15            15           15          21             21           21          22            19            3
-average no/
connection               36           31            27           65          .73            50           68           34            35         109             77           82         170           120           85
2.03  by other means2
-nos                   33200        38563         36578        12000        10090         3629         23603        21020         17848       13695         16584         17384       18040         14878        1,5685
-% of total
population               it           1i             9            4             3            1           17            13           10          15             15           13           22           16            14
3.    Connections/Stand-
posts (Nos.)
3.01  Domestic
-metered                1500         5203         11397         2451         5551           9068        Nil          Nil          Nil          Nil           Nil           Nil         Nil           Nil         Nil
-unmetered             23500        25180        25180         22522        23597         23597        13343        16631         19123        7141          8844         11032        5467          6715         8219
-total                 25000        30383        36577         24973        29148          32665       13343        16631         19123        7141          8844         11032        5467          6715         8219
3.02  Commercial (metered)    -               50           50         6907          7500          9600        167*          210*         250*        112*           160*         295*         110*         115*          140-  
3.03  Industrisl (metered)   200             225          270           92            97           139        Nil          Nil           Nil         Nil            Nil          Nil           100           105          13'         a
3.04  Total no connections 25200           30658        36897        31972        36745          42404       13510         16841        19373        7253           9004         11327        5677         6935          849n.
3.05  Standposts              1190          1240         1524          780           874          1300         315 (taps)  715 (taps)  765             176           300           342         106           147          IF,
4.    Water Demand Max Day
(lcd)
-domestic                 51           83            69           74          124            124         137          130           130          87            115          115           42           97            70
-standpost                31           35            35           22           40             40          40           40            40          33             50           50           15           30            10
5.    Water Demand (m 3/day)
5.01  Domestic consumption 11613           22638        22632        16500        32624          35470       12900         15134        17402        4967           8137         10149        1928         5900          5826
5.02  Standpost coesumpto.  1310            1350         1422         1500          2556          2613         833           970         1071         633           1161          1404         270           530          469
5.03  Commercial consumptn.  -              1000         1000          650           900          1280        1410          1642         1813         251            380           452         110           115          140
5.04  Industrial consumptn. 4250            4250         4250         6640         8180           8500         -             -             -            -            -              -          300           310          410
5.05  Others                  4980 LI    14371 LI    14371 Ll          362          1000          1011         682           925          875          170           240           287          52            80           90
5.06  Unaccoonted for         8193         11789        11814         9488         16740         18076        5275          6224         7054        1698           2797          3467         840         2565          2565
5.07  Total Demand           30346         55398        55489        35140        62000          66950       21100         24895        28215        7719          12715         15759        3500         9500          95(1,5
6.    Water Production
Capacity (m3/day)
6.01  Surface Water          28250         53200        53200        35140        73648          73648       10000         10000        10000         -             -              -           -           6000          6000
6.02  Ground Water            2250          2340         2340          -             -             -         11100         27900        27900        9000          19000         19000        3500          3500         3500
-nos of bore holes         1             1            1          -            -              -             6           15            15         * 6             11            11         -            -              -
6.03  Total                  30500         55540        55540       .35140         73648         73648       21100         37900        37900        9000          19000         19000        3500         9500          9500
7.    Water Supply Systems
7.0L  Balancing Reservoirs
-nos.                      1            5             5            8           12             12           3            7             7           1              3            3            2            3             3
-capacity (m3/)         6300         9990         9990         17500        24300         24300         3845         9235         9235          900          4100          4100         1543         2380         2380
-% of demand              21           25 L2         24 L2      49.8        39.19         36.29        19.78         39.8        35.00           11          32.2         29.22           44           25            25
7.02  Transmission Mains(km)29.3            75.2         75.2         18.5         69.7           69.7        4.99          16.6         16.6         0.4           1.97         1.97         0.45            16           16
7.03  Distribution Mains(km)  27            60.3         60.3        27.65        43.33          43.33        5.03         31.38        31.38          -              40            40       38.15        38.15         38,15
LI includes bulk water sopply to military.
L2 % of demand excluding military demand.
* (unmetered)
Totals may not agree due to, roundings.  Data for interv.cing and succeedin8 years arc available icx the Project File.                                                                                                               c



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Demands
(i) Regional Rural Villages
1980/81                  1985/86                      1990/91                        2000/01
Region                     Net                          Net                        Net                      Net       Type
(No. of      Population   Demand       Population        Demand     Population    Demand        Population  Demand       of
Villages)    X 1,000        (Mld)       X 1,000          (Mld)       X 1,000        (Mld)       X 1,000    (Mld)    Source 1/
Zamp (18)          27.8         1.11        31.0           1.24           33.8         1.35         42.1       1.68        TW
Panshina (36)      70.8         2.83        81.0           3.23           89.9         3.58        116.1       4.64        TW
Lakhpat (76).      30.1         2.10        33.0           2.32           36.0         2.51         43.8       3.07        TW
Sabarnati (45      98.3         4.92       108.0           5.39          116.0         5.80        140.0       6.99        TW
Banni (28)         20.1         2.20        22.0           2.44           24.0         2.63          29.0      3.21        TWv
Deodar (42)        37.8         2.08        42.0           2.29           45.0         2.48         55.0       3.02        TWl
Tharad (10)        10.1         0.56        11.0           0.61           12.0         0.67         15.0       0.82        TW
Total (255)    295.0         15.80       328.0          17.52          355.8        19.02        441.0      23.43
(ii)  Individual Villages
(No. of
Villages)
(54)     55.0         2.73        61.0           3.03           65.8         3.29          81.1      4.05        TWi
(57)     61.5         3.07        70.0           3.51           78.2         3.91        101.9       5.09        DW
Total    (11i   116.5           5.8        131.0           6.54          144.0         7.20        183.0       9.14
1/  TW = Deep Tube Wells
2/  DW - Shallow Dug Wells






INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SERERAGE ROARD
GANDHINAGAR
[FI
BCTBBBCBBCC  SCBCBB BCUC.     BBBBBCBCBBBT.
L E2C                 L                                                    L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I'l'A _= T.'T  
p-                     r                                                            X     T
-                  r_r_-
WATER IuPPLY  EDO LEC I.,On                                                                                                                    ?77112        W     BTBA          C                              KCCCM N-
TrWENAG  .....RUrNON    mn sOARDA:D   S RUg'ON (UW AN  DEveLop 2t   MACIs/NARE z.ND  ELCTReCAL   oweHA  F: rs  SCCFLBB   BNCNDE.IGNS                            I C  AND OICEP
_TIGN   AND   NAlNTENANCE  GoVERNMF:  r OFERA1ION NG EOUIPMENT EoulPMEwT vePlcut S GE JPISR_C                                                                   __           FI<                              C.BTNB
CIBCBCCBCBCRCCIBCLB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  L     ACBBLBE-BB ,ECC CB  CC.C"B  CC,CBAC  r  1  L BB
L                                                          IT"~~~~~~~~~CCBB~B~  CNBSB  TCC..CBBC 7           NBJ            BBCCB____






INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OP ARRAEDARAD
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
..  .IA   -                            lll
UTD<TIEJGUEE   IUE I                                                                                                        CTODDH    |IT X DRNUE PEP[L                                         |;r ETENCPEEER 
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EDEU IU-ED.                                                                     EDUDECT EUROJECTND rI I. ECDIUN   EEUTEICU
CC OUTED SAUD UT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ S--A
OTTLTTUIED UCYTCTUE  CD,UDTDUIVDDAnY,  ETUEISHEET fl,TU                        - TU..
DECIDE UDIDTUDYTCTCYUDC  DPEUEDUPDTIDEDDEEI_ 
TUEUWYUD UCUEEYYNT UDDDIUCUYTESUEPICTNDEY    PNITDETCU  DIDUIDUU  DLDTNTTUUD,   ~ EEEYYCDCTIIPEII.TCUUIT.






INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD-
MANPOWER FORECAST AI)4 RECRUITMENT RATE - 1981-1990
NIf__inum                                                                       St _  Estimted
Serial       Staff Category          Pre-Entry            Establishment 1981   Vacancies    Recruitment Rate         Strength
_________                         Qualification          Sanctioned  Actual      at 1981              98
198.  =        1 90       1990
a          Operators            Nil                         146       103         43          57     62      70        550
b          Craftsmen            Trade Certificate           284       252         32         110    120    140      1,100
c          >        Junior      School Certificate        1,339    1,084         255         400    450    500      5,000
d                                               __r -    ntr  col  etfct
dJ      Inter-       School Certificate          400      324'        76         154    172    187       1,500       O
0 c u   mediate      Higher Diploma
. _ ~H  W:S__..._  _
e            A >    Senior      Higher Diploma              773       599        174         298    333    380      2,900
. _ ~~~Degree _.  _
Promotions from_(el
f          Management           New Appointments            254       233         21          90    100    116         900
I _ -_           I    _         -It
Totals                   3,196    2,595         601       1,009  1,237  1,393    11,950
Unskilled                  600       600         _
Security                   200       200         _
Grand Total              3,996    3,395        601      1
Note:  Recruitment rate calculation incorporates estimated labor turnover of 5Z per annum.



IUDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
FORECAST TRAINING REQUIREMENTS - 1982-1990
Staff Training Requirements (Persons/Year)
Serial             Staff Category             1982          1983 to 1985            1987         1990
_______________._____,,__          (X)        (Y+Z) (per Year)          (Y+Z)        (Y+Z)
a               Operators                     43              99 + 36          104 + 60      112 + 100
b                Craftsmen                    32             152 + 64.         162 + 120    182 + 200:
c                   O  Junior                255             442 + 260         492 + 320    542 + 500
$ e     Inter-
d               X  . a  mediate               76             186 + 80          204 + 110    219 + 150
e              H   X   Senior                174             230 + 156         365 + 200    412 + 290
f               Management                    21             110 + 54          120 + 70      136 + 90
TOTAL:  Persons to be               601           1,119 + 650      1,447 + 880  1,630 + 1,230
Trained              .                                   __.__
COMBINED TOTAL                      601               1,769            2,327        2,833
Note:
X   Existing vacancies (GWSSB)
Y - Annual recruitment for sector
Z - Refresher/updating training at 20% per year of estimated sector manpower strength



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
WATER SUPPLY (USBAN)
Component                                  Location                                   Description                                    Capacity/si-e                                    F-nct In
NADIAD TOWN
Intake., Tran.nisnio, & Treatmt
Tube wells (9 N-o.)                        To the  ost)Lh of                          Nine bores with M.S. camisg                    16.8 Mid.                                        A. the  soure oF water.
Nadiad tow.                               pipes and strainers.
South Panpiog otations (12 Non.)           O-er enah trobe wel1                       Sboem-ible pumps                               32.7 MId.                                        To pomp ester fr   tobewe11s
- 9 Non. no new tubewells                 2 Nov. 33.3 LPS 78M 62 HP                                                                       op on rho rerfo-ir tsbe lthe
and 3 Nos. -o eeisting                   each.                                                                                          uomt-
tubeweillos.                            3 Nos. 16.7 LPS 60 M 20 N!P
e.ch.
4 NSo. 32 LPS 62 M 50 INP
each
3 Non. 70 LPS 32 M 5  HP
each.
North Pumping station.                     To the  -orth of Nadiad                    3 Non. centriftgal pumps                       !5 Mld.                                          To hnnnt wotar  -- the Shedhi
70 LPS, 32 M 50 HP each.                                                                       river infiltera  nsi  -es1e.
Nate Tranvinsi-s mains.                     Prom pseping srstion to                   CEI. class. LA pipo Iioes.                     T.tni 7.6 En vacyini irne                        T,, coo-ywotL- froc eah tnhe woEi
the reservoir in the town.                CI5Omm to 400mm din                                                                             to tho reservoi-s in the town.
Chl-rinat-rs                               On the pumping main-.                      Sin prenvore feed type                         3 kg/hr. total                                   To disniofct the water before sopply.
Sisr-ibotion System
8ervice Reser- irs.                        Within the towL.                           Fose reinforced co-nrete                       5.39 ML total.                                   To provide stora-e   d naitein
elevated revervoirn.                                                                           pre,r thrnhoor the prjeor ae
Dintribhotion network.                     Thrasghost the s-pply ares                 AC and C.i. LA  l.as  pipes.                   !08 kh  of m-in- varying in                      To strengthen and extend the
nine from 80 - to 500 on din                     distributinn  y.tem.
Stand pipes                                 In -rban poor areas of the town           400 sos. taps nopported on                     12 tm si-e of each tap.                          To provide  ateL, to the  rbs  poo
connrete/nasosaty posts.                                                                       popoiotinu-
GODHRA TOWN
Entahe, Trsnsmission, N Treat_ent
Betia Intake works and                      At Betia o  Pans-  Canal                  A reinforced  cncretentrurt . re ..t.7 Mid.                                                        pop ..pcer  c.. P4.7  Can    t
pumping station.                                                                      with 3 ce-rrifuaal pomps eah of                                                                 Kc I,   l,ect-rag   t-ok and-1 jilt-tl-n
85 LPS 58 M           ulot,
Codhra i-rake sump and pump hoose.         At Godhrs nes- the                         A reinforced coerrete str..t-re sod            6 Mld                                           Soop to  -ptlr               to  iltroti-
filtrartio    plonL.                      three centrifugal pumps each of 38                                                              pl-nt hy pronisa eod  o         o    sasht-k
LPS, 14M head.                                                                                 by py gpitg.
Kanelao tank intake and pump ho1-e.    At K-anlian task                               A reinforced conrLt   t -toe and               6 Mld.                                           bo  -PPlY wte Ic fiiumpiti- pino
thre ce.tritagal pon    ech of                                                                d-rg the period oF clao-re of canal.
35 LfS, 6.4M.                                                                                                                                      It
Meshri river intake.                       Meshri River                              Reinforced concrete c-iio-ti-n                  10.8 Mld.                                        To vpplem t the eate  qosotity in >
chonher. jnok wanl and pomp h--oe.                                                             K-oe.ao  -t          ank doi ng oo 
Thrin  t-rbine pumpo oach of 62.5 LPS,                                                         op for e-opor-ti-n loon after monsoon.
25 N. 
Raw Water Tranvt isin main         f       ltretian pomp  one to tow                  Rising  ai-s of C.l. Clans LA                  500 mm din., 9 kh  1ong nod 350 on               T- conveY waIte  f     Ps    anal t
filtrotion plant and f-rther                                                             din. 2.8 km long,                                the filtrati-n plant and to, KEa..In
to R-.a.en  cank.                                                                                                                         Ot-k.
Rao  Water Tronmiosion maim                Meshrl J-ck-ell to K-n1fan                 A rising tmi  of CI. IA                        450 on din., 2.6 km 1-o.                         To oo-v-e  water fro-  Mtehri river
Lank.                                                                                                                                     tn-nolo   tn  for   torane
Clear Watcr Tran-mission main              Pilrtation plant to                        A rising vain of C.I. LA                       350 on- din..  1.2 ho lon,k                      in convey ,Arar w-tcr torho
Water Troatmcnt Plant                       Codhra tows.                              A conventionll rapid sa-d                      b Md.n  -oyl, fcl]  t-e-e -ot
filtratio- plant.
Service Rsoetvoir                          Within Codhra town.                        A reinforced coneost llelntod                 I8fi4 M1 Mn n-plPn- "t  f,ren t-t- rspe
rovervnsr.                                                             coyno~~~~~~~~~"pity.



Component                                 Location                                 Description                                 Capacity/size                                   F-nction
OAND TOWN
Intake., Tr-ennision & Treatment
Tobe wells                                Ineonresidential areas                   Three borewells with M.S.                   5.28 Mld.                                       As the  norce of water
af Amnad toEo.                           easntg pipe and strainers.
Pomp hteses                               Deer the borewelis                       Beisfocced ce-onetet n5trncries             5.2a Mld.                                       To pomp  ares ftrot  the ttbe
with submersible pumps:                                                                    wells fot 'iciry into the
- 2 Nes. 22.2 LPS, 90 M and                                                               reservoiro.
INo. 33.3 LPS. 67 M en three
existig tobewo ls and 3 Non .
33.3 LPS, 67 M on three  ev
tote wells.
Tra.nsmission eiatn.                      From tubeneils to two                    Riniseg sian of C.l. 1A                      250mm dia.l.4 kh  log                         To convey  ater from the tuhe
sereice reservoirs.                                                                  250 mm dta.O.4 he toeg                          wellts to the sereice reserveirs.
200 ss dia.O.l km tong
Chliornator                               Os the rising mai-n.                     Two pre-n-re teed type                       Total 1.3 kg/hr.                               To disimfect the raw water
chlorinators.                                                                              beforen apply.
Service Reservoir                         Within Anaod tEo.                        A reinfor-ed roncrete elevated              0.53 ML                                         To store w-ete  aed maintain
reservoir.                                                                                 pressure rhroogheut the perject
Distribhtionnertwrk                       Throughont the supply                    A.C. and C.I. LA steis and                  Total 39.4 kh  of pipes in                      To s-pply water threogheut the
area.                                    tranches.                                   varying dia. from 100 -  to                     project area.
600  -
Stand pipes.                              Is urtan poor areas of                   112 Non.  taps sapporeed n                   12 nsn tap mice.                               Ta provide water en the srhan
Aamnd town.                              concrete/sasonary pants.                                                                    year popuaities.
NhIAVNAGAR TOWN
Tranmtsmiain and Tceatme-t
Raw Water Transmission maia               Fros hifurcation paint on                A gravity eati  If R.t.C.                    500 - dia., 2.7 kh  long                       To con-ey raw water te the
SheLruEJi saeinto r thep-p-d fitrtion plant.
filtratios plant at Chitta.
ttesotos of ezisting treatment            Takhteshwar.                             Additional onits of ranventional            0.02 Mid.                                       To angeeme  the eapacit  of 
piant.                                                                             raptd sand filtration piant.                                                                etstItng a.ter tteat-ent piant.
Treat- ent piant                          Chitra village                           Cneventional tepid nand                      17 Mld.                                        To suppleme-- the capaeity of
filtration piant                                                                           water treatment plant.
Cle-r Wnter Trasn-ission saies            Chitra filtration plant                  A gravity sai of roncrete,pumping            600  m. die., 5.8 kh  Sang                     Ta eonvey cleat water to the
to service reservoirs.                  saeis of C.. LA                              romcrere pipe; 400 -  die.                      service resersoirs.
1.4 km loeg C.I pipe and
two short pipes of 50 M
length pach.
Puapineg Sattons                          At Chitra and ot Dilbttatar              A -eiorced concrete struErure               Total 10.5 Mld.                                 To pomp treated water to th
sump.                                     ith centrifugal pumps                                                                      servi   t:ervairs 
- 2 Non. 24.3 LPS, 18.2 M each
2 Non. 46.9 LPS, 21.7 M eaeh
2 Non. 61.3 LPS, 18.5 M eaeh
Sistritatins System t
Sersice Ri.ervoirn                        Varloas places within thc town           Reinforced concrete resereoirn              Total 6.27 ML                                   Ta provide ntorage and maintain
thre     - ted ad                                                                           presnare thro-gha-t the prnjeet
Disttibutrio   netork                     Thrnughoat the supply area               nintribhtion salin  and branches            Total 182.5 km of pipes                         To supply water thro gho-t
ef AG ad  C.I. LA                           in vying die, from  SD                          the project area.
to 750 ma
Stand pipes                               In urban poor areas af the town          500 Non.  taps stppocted on                 Tops of 12 ens.                                 To provide water to the thar
coscrere/mosonary po-ts.                                                                    poor popiltian.a
iAMNAGMA TOWN
Intake, TransmlsniOn, 6 Treatment
USd intoks  works and pompin5             Ud Left bSok caa.                        S cirfsccd         c30 'Aid                                                                 Ta ptp wte  fr    the c          Onto
station.                                                                           w e    an  can  .   vith foant centreirugaS pumps of                                        the  -rwes r    min threanglinrt
173.6 LPS, 30 M each.                                                                       torgs chin-ey.
Ran Wator Transmission sates.            oUd-I intake to Jamlagar city.            Aran  carte transmission sale of            Concrete sati  700 me                           T,    -y r        t-  p to t
prestressed concrete pipe.                  dia., 39.5 kh  long.                            lam-g-ar city.
Water Treatment ploL                     NSear entering trEatment plant.           A cone-ti-Iel rapid nand filter              12.5 Mid.                                      T, -e-t the wate
type treatment plant                                                                        capacity of the owe.r



Component                                  Location                                   Description                                    Capacity/size                                    Function
(JAMNAGAR cont.)
Clear Water Transmission mains              From treatment plant to service           Rising mains of C.I. LA                        250 mm dia., 2.7 km                              To convey clear water to
reservoirs.                                                                              long t 400 mm dia., 3.7                          the service reservoirs.
km long
Pumping stations                           Within Jamnagar town                       Two Reinforced concrete                        20.3 Mld.                                        To pump clear water to the
structure with centrifugal                                                                     service reservoirs.
puMPS
- 3 Nos. 35.3 LPS, 17.5 M
each.
3 Nos. 106 LPS, 17.5 M
each.
Service Reservoirs                         Within Jamnagar town                       Four reinforced concrete                       3.69 ML                                          To provide storage and maintain
elevated reservoirs                                                                            pressure throughout the
supply area.
Distribution network                       Throughout the supply area                 Distribution mains and branches                Varying diameters from 150 -                     To strengthen and extend the
of A.C. Class I and C.I. Class LA             to 400 mm.  Total length 29.3                    distribution system.
km A.C. pipes and 41.6 km
C.1. pipes.
Stand pipes                                 in urban poor areas of the town            324 Nos. of taps supported on                 Tap size 12 mi                                   To provide water to the urban poor
concrete/masonary posts.                                                                       population of the town.
o



Component                                  Location                                  Description                                   Capacity/size                                    Fsection
REGIONAL RURAL WATER
(Zamp, Panshina. Sabarnati,
Lakhput, B.anf. Drodhar,
Tharsd) .
Intake, Transmission
Tube wells                                 Average 4 Non per                         M.S. casing pipes and strainers               30 Nos total                                     Source of Supply
region.
Tube well pumIping uLafions                Average 4 Nun per                         Turbine pumps                                 30 Nun pumps. Tutal Capacity                     Pump into system
region                                                                                  26.4 Mld.
Booster Stati.o.s                          U  traun.ission mains                     Centrifugal pumps ever concrete               12 Nos stations. 42 Nus                          To boost pressure on
sumps.                                       pumps.  Total capacity 25 Mld.                   trunseissiun mains.
Transmission mains                         From pumping stations to                  AC/PVC/CI. pipes                              949 km. 80 - to 450 ms
village cisterns
Treatment, Distribution
Treatment                                  On village cistern                        Drip feed chlorinator                          195 Non                                         Treatment of water
Cistern                                    At each village                           R.C.C. Circular tanks                         195 Non varying from 0.02 ML                     storage
tu 0.11 ML.
Stand pipes                                At each village                           3224 taps on concrete poets                   12 -m size                                       Village water suppply
INDIVIDUAL RURAL FOR VILLAGES
WITH TUBE WELL, AS SOURCF OF
SUPPLY
Tube wells (54 Nun.)                       one at eoch of the 54                     54 bores with M.S. casin,g pipe               5 Mld.                                           An source of water supply.
villages                                  and strainer.
Tube well pumping stations                 On each tube weli                         Turbine pumps                                 5 Mld.                                           To pump water from tube wells
- 49 No. 2 UP each                                                                            to village cisterns.
5 No. 5 HP each
Water Trsansissiun mains                   iron tube welis to village                AC pressure ar-d Cl pipes                     Total 97.2 km of 80 ma dia.                      To convey water from pumping
cisterns.                                                                                                                               ufatioe to village cisterns.
Treatmcnt, Distribution
Tre-tment                                  At village cistern                        Drip feed typo chlorinati-o                   54 No. - 00 each Rort                            Ta treat the wates before  upply.
54 villages.
Cistern                                    At each village                           RCC circular tonks.                           54 Nos. each of 0.05 ML capacity.                To, provide sforage 'of wuter. -e
Stood pipe                                 At each village                           2160 taps supported  n concrret               12 ma siz  each tap                             To supply water to the villagers           mo
nasonary posts.
INDIVIDUAL RURAL FOR VlI.IAGESE
WITH DUGWELLS AS SOURCE OF
SUPPI.Y                                                                                                                                                                                                                       m
Dug weils                                  4 No. at each of the 57                   OpeL wel1 with stone masonary                 6.15 Mld.                                        An source of water supply.
village                                   const ructios.                                228 NBus.
Pumping stations                           At each dug well                          Submersible pumps 228 NRu                     6.15 Mld.                                        To Pomp water from dug wells to
2 HP  -ch.                                                                                    village cisterns.
Treant, Distribution
Treatment                                  At village cistern                        Drip feed type chlurination                   1 14 Ni. two numbers each fo.r                   Tn treat the water refore supply.
earl, fur the 57 villages.
Cistern                                    At each village                           RCC Circular tamk                             114 NErs. 0.02 ML capacity earh                  Villge water eupply.
Stand pipe                                 At eaeh village                           2280 taps supported on coecrete               12 rnm siat each tap
uasonary posts.



Component                                Location                                Description                                 Capacity/size                                 Function
SEWERAGE
AMIMEDABAD
Caliuctios System
Trunk Sewers                             East City                               Rectanlar trin R.C.C. duet                  1.8 a a 1.8 s - 2.5 kh                        Relief Siews
West City                               Rectagnglar  twin R.C.C. duct               2.4 u c 2.4 m - Y.55 km                       Relief Sloers
1.2 us 1.7 3 - 5.95 km
1.8 r u 1.8 m -1.96 km
1.9 c x 1.9 = - 1.32 km
2.5 = a 2.5 s - 2.50 km
Ter-inal Pu=piog statio-s                1 No. lEst City (Pirana)                R.C.C. ircctare                             Peak fltc  capacity 621 Mid.                  Cono-ying sewage to tremtment plantr.
S No. Went City (Vasa)                  R.C.C. Structace                            Peak flow capacity 795 Mld.                   C-onvying newage to treet=ent plants.
Tonatne..t Plots                         I Na. Cast City (Picau-)                A.eratd lagoo.   intearls,                  227 Mld. Ac. Flow                             Treat-unt prior to disposal to ri-a-.
I No. West City (Vasna)                 grit chauhcro. screans, nettling            155 MId. Av. FPow
tanks
RAJKOT
Collection Synten                        City area.                              Scout pipe. Stcneware/R.C.C.                195 km in sien ranging from                   Collect se-age and convey to lift
15. um to 1100 ee.                            stations.
Lift Stations                            night eonal stations                    Circular/Wat gull/Diy Well                  Total of 22 No., hori=nntal  u amps           Lift sewge for onward conveyance.
R.C.C. Construction                        varying fSom 40m3/H to 820m /H.
Covepyauce                               City area                               C.I. pip.                                   3.4 km is si.e.  rsnging from 150        Pm rom lift  tsttion-  to trunk sewers.
to 800 -.
Raw Sewage                               Treatment plant site                    Rectangulac/Wet Well/
Pa=piag Statics                                                                 Diy Well R.C.C. cousteuction                 3 pumps each 2340=3/hr.                       Ts pump nesoge to treatment plaur.
Treteid uffl.uet pumping stati-n         Treatment plant site                    Rectangulat/Wet Well/Diy Well               3 pumps each 2340s3/hr.                       To pump treated effluent to irrigatian
Treattet Pialrt                          Northern city linits                    Aerated lagoons                             4 days riettion.                              Ta treat sewage.
West Buck Aji River                                                                 24 No. 25HP ficed aerators.
NADIAD TOWN
Collectiotn 4 ConveSa    ystem
Collection Systrm                        Throughout the project area.            Stoneware pipes fron 150 me to              Stoneware laterals up to                      To augment the enistieg newerage system
350 -  0 and R.C.C. NP2 damn               200 me 0 92 km
pipes frau 400 me to 1100 n  0
Lift utrtions                            3 No is drainage Scation A                R.C.C. Sty Well/Wet Well                  Average flow capacity at                      To life cewage flows at
on Soatr-Went sid' of railway           coosiructoon with a bSick nasonary          lift stations vary betweun                    intermediate points in the syste=.
track and 2 No in drainage              pump house.                                 0.39 Mld. and 10.24 Mld.
unction B. on North-lost side
of railtay track.
Main pumping utation.                    Total 2 No of which                     E.C.C. Dty Well/Wet WelS                     Average flow capacity of the exinting         To convey the sewage  iafl   ta thu
existing pumping otation cc             constcuctionaith a brick                    pumping station augeented to ID MId.          new treat=ent plant situ.
the North side near Nee Shorrocik        asanary paup house.                        Now pueping station 37.2 Mld.
Mills and new pumping station
near the treatment plant
Treat_-nt Plant                          1 So. one  truatmn.t plant near         Osidatioc Ponds facoltativo  type           The average dry weather flow design            To troet ewage bhfore final
the eisting treat=ent plact                                                         capacity 40.607 Mld. (1991)                   disposal.
SAVARKLUNDLA
Collectian  4 Cocvayance  iyste=         DIevloped areas of Savarkundla          Storntare pip.. far 150 =                   Stonewore laItrals up ti  200 mm              Introduction of watur carriage sysLem
Colliectica Systc=s                      town                                    0 to 350 e   0   R i.C.C. pipes             0 31.2 km and stonew=re sod R..C.              for d-=estic suwage.
from hO me 0 to 600 ea- e.                 onion  6.8 kh.
P-mping station and force main           North of toYn and cc Wert Biak          S.C. Dry Well/Wct Bull                      Average flow capacity 7.66 Mld.               To pump the entire flow to thu proposed d
of River.                               conatruction C.l, Force main                Force main 450 ea 0 3.53 kn oith              treat-ent plant.
cacrying capacity of 24.51 Mld.
Treat=ent plast              Sooth-West side of the city             Oxidation PFod of faul-tative typc          The overage dry weather flow design            To treat Do=oetic sewage before final
3.5 ki                                                                              capacity 7.06 Mild. (1991)                    disposal.
ANAND SEWERAGE
Collectinn 4 Convayanca System
Collection Systen                        Town Planning Scheme nh=bers 2,4,       stoware pipes 150 to to 350 =               Stonecare latecals 21 ki  stonewsre &         To augment the existing  .e.eage system
and 5                                   0.  R.C.C. pip.s 400 -  to 800  e 0.        R;C.C. Mais  swters 5.73 kh  Total
421  ahuc



Component                            Location                             Description                             Capacity/size                              Function
ANAND SEWERAGE (Cont.)
Pumping Stations and force umin      1 No. on South side of               R.C.C. Dry Well/et Well                South - Average dry weather                South P. S. to convey the waste
construction. C.I. Force  in            flow capaiAty = 8.18 Mid.                 water of T-P. Scheme 2 4 &I 5
1 No. on North side of               (nev) prestressed concrete (Existing)   Worth - Average dry weather               to new treatment plant. North
the town                                                                     flov capacity = 7.19 Mid.                 P. S. to convey the Waste water of
(present) 14.5 Dld. (future)              T. P. Sches 1. 3 6, 4 7 to the
450 a 0 x 1.98 km  force                  existing treatmnt plant.
=ai (existing) wlth carrying
capacity of 46.66 Mid.
Treatment Plant                       1 No. treatment plant on            Oxidation Ponds                         Average dry weather capacity               Treatment of the town waste water
south side of the city                                                      of 4.76 lmd. (1991)                        before disposal.
a



ANNEX 13
-66-
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Costs of GWSSB Components
Percentage of
URBAN AREAS                                 Local      Foreign      Total            Local      Foreign      Total          Total Project Cost
-- US$ Million-                          ----R5 Million---
Equivalent
Water Supply
Civil Works                                 8.45       -            8.4531          71.87        -         71.871               6.48
Equipment                                   2.64      5.13          7.77            22.45      43.68       66.13                6.02
Subtotal                                 11.09      5.13         16.22            94.32      43.68      138.00               12.50
I/
Sewerage-/
Civil Works                                17.66       -           17.66           150.14        -        150.14               13.53
Equipment                                   7.20      1.93          9.13            61.22      16.43       77.65                7.01
Subtotal                                 24.86      1.93         26.79           211.36      16.43      227.79               20.54
Low-Cost Sanitation-/
Labor                                       1.60        -           1.60            13.64        -         13.64                1.33
Material                                    5.45        -           5.45            46.36        -         46.36                4.51
Subtotal                                  7.05        -           7.05            60.00        -         60.00                5.84
RURAL AREAS
Water Supply
Civil Works                                 7.92       -            7.92            67.36        -         67.36                6.07
Material & Equipment                        9.73      0.61         10.34            82.73       5.21       87.94                7.93
Subtotal                                 17.65      0.61         18.26           150.09       5.21      155.30               14.00
COMMON SERVICES
Stores, Workshops & Depots                  0.35       -            0.35             3.00        -          3.00                0.04
Vehicles & Miscellaneous
Equipment                                 0.47       -            0.47             4.00        -          4.00                0.05
Subtotal                                  0.82       -            0.82             7.00        -          7.00                0.09
OTHERS
Hydrological Investigations                 0.13       -            0.13              1.15       -          1.15                0.11
Engineering:  Consultants                   1.31       -            1.31            11.12        -         11.12                1.08
GWSSB (ETP)                                 9.21       -            9.21             78.30       -         78.30                7.63
Training                                    0.73      0.18          0.91             6.20       1.50         7.70               0.75
Land Acquiaition                            0.77       -            0.77              6.53        -         6.53                0.64
Loan Fund-House Connections                 2.35       -            2.35            20.00         -        20.00                1.95
Subtotal                                 14.50      0.18         14.68           123.30       1.50      124.80               12.16
TAXES & CUSTOM DUTY2/
Subtotal                                 10.67       -           10.67            90.67        -         90.67                5.98
Total before Contingencies               86.64      7.85         94.49           736.74      66.82      803.56               71.11
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                    5.87      1.01          6.88             49.90       8.56       58.46               5.98
Price                                      17.74      2.95         20.69            150.52      24.98     175.50               23.00
Subtotal                                 23.61      3.96         27.57           200.42      33.54      233.96               28.89
Total Project Cost                          110.25    11.81         122.06            937.16    100.36      L037.52-/           100.00
1/ Includes Rajkot Sewerage Project but does not include Ahmedabad Sewerage Project.
2/ Includes Contingencies.
3/ Includes contributions to IDA financed irrigation projects amounting to US$4.0 million.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AHMEDAbAD MUNICIPAL CORPORATION SEWERAGE PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Project Cost
Percentage of
Local             Foreign             Total             Local              Foreign             Total         Total Project Cost
-----------------US $ Million -------------          -----------------Rs Million---------------
CIVIL WORKS                                                   Equivalent
Collection and Conveyance                 11.79                -                11.79             100.22               -                 100.22             27.9
System Extensions and Improvements         -                   -
Pumping Stations                           4.56                -                 4.56               38.79              -                   38.73            10.8
Pumping Mains                              0.08                -                 0.08                0.69              -                    0.69             0.2
Treatment and Disposal                     3.94                -                    --              33.52              -                   33.52             9.3
3.94            T7_3__
Subtotal                               2077                                   20.37             173.16-                                173.166            48.2
MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL
Pumping Stations                           1.48              1.24                2,72               12.61            10.54                 23.15
Pumping Stations                                                                6.99 ~~~~~~~.7221.66                  28.65              6.5
Treatment and Disposal                     0.82              2.55                3.37                6.99            321.2                 28.                6.
Subtotal                                 2.30              3.79                6.09                                32.20                51.80 19.
OTHERS
Investigation and Survey                   0.47                -                 0.47                3.97              -                   3.97              1.1
Consulting                                 0.93                                  0.93                7.88              -                   7.88              2.2
Sup vision                                 0.93                -                 0,93                7.88              -                  7.88               2.2                               1
Sdbtotal                             2.33                                   2.3               19.73               -                 19.73.
CUSTOMS DT 1!                                2.47                                   2.47              21.04              -                  21.04              4,4
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                   2.31              0.52                 2.83              19.66            4.42                 24.08              6.7
Price                                      4.69              0.96                 5.65              39.93            8.16                 48.09             20.7
TOTAL                                   34.48              5.27                39.75             293.12           44.78                337.90            100.0
1/ Includes contingencies



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECI
RURAL AND U1RBAN AREAS - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Summ2ry  tosr Estimates                                                                    of Grand Total
Fisca] Year               1981/8'2    1982/83        1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      Total       1981/82      1982/83      1983/84       1984/85      1985/86  _ o ta         Sply        Scweraq
No--     -- - -  - - -- -  - - -    Rs '0000-- - - - - --  - - - -  -9---         - -  - - - - -- - - - -  - -U $   '000-- - - - - -  - - - - -  -
RURAL AREAS
Water Supply
- Regional                             83245         89810        24985          -          198040         -          9793         10564          2939         -           23296      14.70
- Individual              33983        57090           -            -            -          91073        3996         6715           -             -           -           10711       6.78
Total                     33983       140335         89810        24985          -         289113        3996        16508         10564          2939         -           34007      21.48
URBAN AREAS
Water Supply
- Jamnagar                31476        33709         23324         7371          -           95880       3702         3965          2743           867         -           11277       7.18
- BI,avnagar                354        12053         21160        28825        14323         76715         41         1418          2488          3390        1685          9022       5.82
- Nadiad                    304         9846        1t795          9912         6459        43316          36         1157          1975          1166          760         5096       3.29
- Atiand                     16         7217          4374          613          -           12220          2          850           514            72         -            1440       0.93
- Godhra                   6330         8975          8810         1946          -           26061        745         *055          1036           229         -            3066       1.98
Sewerage
- Ahmedabad                  -         51923        122422       142971        20587       337902         -           6107         14400         16817         2421        39750                   25.13
- Rajkot                    -          41870        88213         91719        23631       245433         -           4924        10375          10788        2779         2887S                   18.23
- Nadiad                    -          12458         15917        43131        14608        86114         -           1465          1872          5073        1718         10130                    6.39
- Anand                     -           3321          4393        20410         7309        35433         -            391           517          2400         859          4168                    2.63
- Savar Kandla              --          2572          5139        17454         7373        '32538        -            302           604          2052          867         3828                    7.41
Low Cost Sanitation         -           6219         10769        i7862        25150        60000         -            732          1267          2101        2959          7058                    4.53
Total:
- Water Supply            38480         71800        74463        48667        20782       254192        4527         8447          8760          5725         2445        29005      19.20
- Sewerage                  -         112194        236084       315685        73508       737471         -          13200         27775         37139        865f)        86755                   54.79
- Low Cost Sanitati;.n      -           6219         10769        17862        25150         60(001       -            732          1267          2101        2?'59         7058                    4.53
- Total                   38480       190213        321316       382214       119440      1051663        4527        22378         37802         44966       14052        123725
GRAND TOTAL
(rural & urban areas)
- Water Supply            72463       212135        1642i3        73652        20782        54330(5      8525        24957         19326          8665         >445        63918      40.68
- Sewerage                  -         112194        236084       315685        73508        237471        -          13200         27775         37140         8648        86761                    '479
- low cost sanitation       -           6219         10769        17862        25150         60000        -             732         1267          2101        !959          7058                     4.53
- Total                   72463       330548       41 112o       407199       119440       1340776       8525        38888         48368         47906        1405.       157738               1OO.0
7 of Total                 S ' 4         24.h:2      iO.64         30.39         8.91         100         5.44       24.6'          30.64         30.39       8.91          00.00
Note: Totals may not agree dueo to rounding.
Costs includt: contingenciesa taxes
Adrinistrativ: ohargea & Consulting Services.






4 I 1qN H CT5F, COLl cl re                                                                                     V                                                              ~_ __~-_    ~-____~~_~~_____ _______________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
f   f                                                                                                                          E)        wesns rnAs o; vk . > *   4  t1o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  lE;j
< C-,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I                                                                                                                                                                        I             _    _____                                                               3------
| LLGw7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *
|~~~~~~H                                                                                                                                                           RRP .CRL PCCUREC 0Sr |9'?  ,._1_
#t ARP        -S          RRJPR   <4>     .    C      E   Z                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
..PJE                                                   C                                                      'CCPCRR 
LFENEC9HR                                                                                                                                                                                        CC     PC.   CC             Rt
CC RCRRPJCPR  fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R~~HR                     <RCC........



- - ----



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ENGINEERING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Calender Year     1981            1982            1983            1984            1985             1986
_ _ _ _ _     _     __                                           _-                                                     I 
India Fiscal Ye          8             1982/83         1983/84          1984/85         1985/86
IDA Fiscal Year            1982             1983           1984            1985             1986
_   _  _  _  T  _  _  T   _  _  _  _  _  _   - -l                                                     -  _
Quarter J MA J  S O DJ MA J  S    IJ PA           s   DJM A   JS a   DJ MIA      |  C  MA J --
NADIAD WATER SUPPLY                                                                        _ _ -  __  -   -
GDMNRA WATER SUPPLY                                       _      .                                      -
ANAND WATER SUPPLY                                      -              - -          JJ
JAMNAGAPR WATER SUPPLY
BHAVNAGAR WATER SUPPLY I
REGIONAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY               I                              :                       -   m   -,S:  - I-                   - I-
_ ~  ~       ~ ~ ~ I -- -                                          -                                    - -" -n|"   - -    -l_ |_    
~~~mmE          m O
INDIVIDUAL RURAL WATER SLJPPLY                                    -       I         I
4 .. , .. ! = <W1 1 1 4- I.I............   .......  .. ..
NADIAD SEWERAGE                                        i      _         - _     m               -   -  -  __   -  -   -          _
I .. .., _ *'_ t.. .*             ,   _                                    I
SAVARKUNDLA SEWERAGE                                                                         -1
ANAND SEWERAGE                           _    -  _         -                -   j       L                       _  _
.... '-.......*:_                     I            I I I    
AHMEDABAD SEWERAGE                                                                            171
RAJKOT SEWERAGE                      i}11-nJ                                                                                        Ii
I__i                                                        I _                     I   I I                      - - I
............ Design
-  -   Tender Preparation and Contracts
Supply of Materials
Construction and Commissioning
World Bank - 23161



INDIA
WJANAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEIRACF PROJECT
RURAL AND UR648 AREAS
a rerIa  and Equipment Requiretents YSISIB Projects (Excluinud(C
QUANTITIES                                    IMSTC ESTIMATES                            fSICTS Z/
Blasic                     Basic
Including                   Including
Units    Rural      Urban     Total      Basic     Contingencies       Basic     Contingencies 6/ los        AveraSe Si-e
---------Rs  '000--           -------- us $ '000---                 us   '000
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. Pipes
-Asbestos-Cement (AC) 1/      KMI      797_15    368.42    1165.57    67224        162587           8403         20324            4        2000
-P.V.C. 1/                    KM       298.43    NIL         298.43    9119         18057            1140         2257            1        1140
-Cast Icon                    KM         7.25     69.71       26.96    29399        67338           3675          8418            1        3675 (ICB)
-Calvanieed iron              KM        NIL      NIL          NiIL      NIL          NFL             -             -              -         -
-Concrete                    tM        NIL       58.95       58.95    14657        31922           1832          3996            1        1832
-Steel                        Km         3.84      0.42        4.124    1642         4012            205           502            1         879 3/
2. Valves                         NOS      188Z      1414       3296         4422        10146            553          1268           4         140
3. Treatment Plants               NOS       Nil.       4           4          928        2371             116          296             1        154
4.  Chlorination Equipment         NOS      363         9        322          303          681             38            85
5.  Pops                         lNOS       390        53        443         6253       11184             782          1398           4         160(ICf)
6. Watc MNeters
-Bulk                         N5O        28       27          55         450         900               56          112             1         56
-Domestic                     NOS       -         -           -           -          -                -            -              -          -
7.  Casings                       X"        12.64       1.405     14.045    3439        8546             430           1068           -          -  31
8.  Strainers                      AM        6.32       0.695      7.015    1957         4884             244          611                       -
9. M. S1  Bats and
Sections                     MT       741      1115        1862        7655       15014             957          1877            -          -  4/
Total (A)                 -         -         -           -       147448      337692           18431         42212           11          -  4/
B. SEWERAGE
1.  Pipes
-Asbestos-Cement (AC)         ASM                 -            -           -         -                 -           _                         _
-Stone Ware                   AS       NIL       162.55      167.55      1884       4236             235           529             1        426
-R.CC. (Concrete)             AM       NIL        27.73       272-3     4191        9045             524          1131            1         524
2.  Pumps                         NOS      NIL         54         54.00      5831       14278             729          1785            2        365 (IC3)
3. Ilanhole Covers                MOS      NIL      4677        4627         3465        7278             433          910             1        433
4. Vent ShaEts                    NOS      NIL       1171       1171          488        1025              61           128            1        126
5.  Foot Steps                    NOS      NIL     37400       37400          519        1013              65           127            -         -
6. Sewer Connections
-W.C. with Fittings           NOS      NIL     30000       30000         3227       5728             403            716            1        403
-Connection Pipes             AM       NIt       129.96      129.96      1524       2972              191          372                       -  5/
-Miscellaneous                LS       NIL       Nil           -         2828       5515             354           689            2         167
Total (B)                                                          21236       46349            2655          5794            9
C.  NlSCILLANEOUS
1. DSilling Rigs                  N05      NIL       NIL         -           -           -
2.  Leak Detection Eqaipment      NOS        5                     5          150         1511             19            19            1         50
3. Sewer Cleaning Equipment       LS         5                     5          250        250               31            31
4.  Vehicles                      NOS        4                     4          750         750              94            94            I         94
5 Offico b Laboratory
Equipment                   LS                               LS       2850        2850             356           356            1         356
6   Workshops                     NOS        5                     5         3000        3000             375           375            1        375
Total (C)                           -                              7000        7000             875           875                       -
GRAND TOTAL A+B4C                        -                   -         175684     391041           21961         48881
Note:  KM = Kilometers
NOS - N-aers
MT   Letric Tons
LS   Lump Sum
Totals may not agree d.n to ronuding
!/ The proportions of AC and PVC pipes to be pr-eured may change.
21 Tentative nmbers and contract sizes.
31 Under one contract.
4/ Through Govc. chanoelized source without temder
5/ Under one contract
6/   Includes tanes and duties. Adelaisciatiee charges. contingecies.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AHMEDABAD SEWERAGE
Material and Equipment Contracts
Cost Estimates
Contract                    Description                   Basic      Basic Inci. Conting.    Basic        Basic Incl. Conting.  No.   Type
--Rs Million---                      -US $ Million------
Supply, Erect, &
Commission:
A. AT PUMPING STATIONS
AT VASNA AND PIRANA
(i)  Mechanical            Pumps, etc.                   18.82            20.70               2.22            2.44                 1   ICB 1/
Equipment            Peak capacity:
Vasna 795 Mld.
X                           Pirana 621 Mld.
(ii) Electrical            Substation Equipment           8.08             8.89               0.95            1.05                 1   ICB
Equipment
(iii) Sluice Gates          C.I. gates at inlet,           3.92             4.31               0.46            0.50                 1   ICB
outlet of pumping
stations, treatment units
B. AT TREATMENT PLANTS
VASNA AND PIRANA
(i)   Aerators, incl.       Fixed Aerators - Aerated    27.50              30.25                3.24           3.56                 1   ICB
Electrical Equip.   Lagoons. D.W.F:
Vasna - 227 Mld.
Pirana - 155 MId.
(ii)  Mechanical Equip.   Inlet works                      3.66             4.02               0.43            0.47                 1   ICB
Screens, grit
chambers, etc.
incl. Elec. Equip.
(iii) Elec. Equipment       Substation Equipment           5.50             6.05               0.65            0.71                 1   ICB
1/ International Competitive Bidding



73                                ANNEX 20
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and                 Quarterly           Cumulative          % of Total
Quarter Ending                    -----US$ millions-------                Credit
1983
September 30, 1982                     .5                  .5                   .7
December 31, 1982                    1.4                 1.9                   2.6
March 31, 1983                       1.5                  3.4                  4.7
June 30, 1983                        1.5                 4.9                   6.8
1984
September 30, 1983                   5.0                 9.9                 13.8
December 31, 1983                    5.1                15.0                 20.8
March 31, 1984                       4.9                19.9                  27.6
June 30, 1984                        4.9                24.8                  34.4
1985
September 30, 1984                   5.5                30.3                 42.1
December 31, 1984                    5.5                35.8                 49.7
March 31, 1985                       5.6                41.4                 57.5
June 30, 1985                        5.6                47.0                 65.3
1986
September 30, 1985                   6.1                53.1                 73.8
December 31, 1985                    6.0                59.1                 82.1
March 31, 1986                        3.5               62.6                 86.9
June 30, 1986                        3.4                66.0                 91.7
1987
September 30, 1986                   2.0                68.0                 9S4.4
December 31, 1986                    4.0                72.0                100.0



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Present Tariff Structure
Ab3mdabad      Balknt       Anand       Ehavnagar   Godhra       Ja  ar   Nadisi             Savai}undle
Date of Establishment of Present           4/1/77         4/1/76       4/1/81      4/1/72       10/1/76    4/1/71       4/1/80          4/1/-3
Water Charges
Domestic                                                                     1
Water Tax - Annual Rate per ARV           5%                      Rs  3.00-/
Monthly Flat Rate per Connection
Size of Connection
1/4"                                                                                           Rs  1.88
3/8"                                         Rs  4.00                  Rs   1.25                    2.81                    3.00
1/2"                                             5.00    Rs  5.00           1.50   Rs  5.00                 3.75            5.00
3/4"'                                           12.00        15.00          8.00       10.00               12.50            8.00
1"                                                         50.00         15.00       15.00               20.83           12.00
1"                                                                       25.00
1"                                                                       30.00
2"                                                                       45.00
3"                                                                      100.00
4"                                                                      150.00
Metered Rate per 1,000 liters                              .80                        .09                    .11
Non-domestic
Water Tax - Annual Rate per ARV        10 to 15Z
Monthly Flat Rate per connection
1/4"                                                                                                7.50
3/8"                                             6.00                                              11.25
1/2"                                            10.00        25.00                     10.00               16.67           10.00
3/41'                                           24.00        45.00                     18.00               20.83           15.00
1"                  2/                                     70.00                     25.83               33.33           21.00
Metered Rate per 1,000 liters-                             .80                        .22                     .22
Sewerage Charges
Domestic
Annual Rate per ARV                       4%                            .5%                                         5% or Rs 35       -
Non-domestic
Annual Rate per ARV                      11%                                                                        5Z or Rs 200
1/ Annual Tax per house.
2/  Subject to a minimum charge approximations flate rate charge.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statements
Ahmedabad
(Rs 000)
Proforma Actual             Estimated                                              Forecast
For the Year Ending March 31                                      1980        1981       1982        1983        1984       1995          19            1987         1988          1989
Income Statement
Water Supply
Operating Revenues
Water Tax etc. - Existing             11.981      13,066     13,984      17,005     19,582      22,536      25,925       51,83n       59,608         68,549        78,835       O,C56
-   Increase           _ _ _      __ _ _      _ _ _      __ _ _      _ _  _     _ _ __      19,147       --  -___     -   -                                      -    -
Total Operating Revenues              11,981      13,066     13,984      17,005     19,582      22,536     L5,072        51,833       59,608   6     88549         76.831       90.656
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation               14,958      19,310     22,617      27,391     31,252      34,859      38,772       42,403       46,760         50,605        54,791       59,327
Depreciation                            3,099      3,099      3,099       5,411       5,411      5,411       5,411       12,542       12,542         12.542        12,542       12,542
Total Operating Expenses              18,057      22,409     25,716      32,802     36,663      40,270      44,183       54,945       59,302         63,147        67.333       71,869
Net Operating Income (Loss)              (6,076)    (9,343)   (11,732)   (15,797)   (17,081)   (17,734)          889        (3,112)        306          5,402        11,498       18,787
Interest Expense Net                     8,179       8,541      9,092      15,444     18,775      20,371      18,177       16,436       14,522         13,500        12,860       11,119
Net Income (Loss)                       (14,255)   (17,884)   (20,824)   (31,241)   (35,856)   (38,105)    (17,288)        (19,548)    (14,216)        (8,098)       (1,362)       7,668
Sewerage
Operating Revenues
Sewerage Tax etc. - Existing          17,630      18,403     19,293      23,584     27,069      31,084      35,699       71,493       82,217         94,550      108,733       125,043
-   Increase        __ _ __ _ _                        _ _ _     _ _ _        _ _ _      26.469       ______                                   -   - 
Total Operating Revenues              17,630      18,403                 23,584     27,069      31,084      62.168       7,1493       82727 94,550 l08,733                     125,043
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation               14,279      17,328     20,605      24,324     27,024      29,599      32,588       34,882       37,846         50,493        53,944       57,640
Depreciation                           2,976       3,160      3,367       5,049      5,049       5,049       5.049         5,049       5,049         15,625        15,625        15,625
Total Operating Expenses              17,255      20,488     23,972      29,373     32,073      34,648      37,637       39.931       42.895         66,118       69,569        73,265
Net Operating Income (Loss)                 375     (2,085)    (4,679)    (5,789)    (5,004)    (3.564)    24,531           31.562      39,322         28,432        39,174        51,778
Interest Expense (Netr)                  3,614       3,953      3,969       3,453      2,691       4,926       9,225       14,128       14,305         35,911        33,698       31,607
Net Income (Loss)                        (3.239)    (6,038)    (8,648)    (9.242)    (7,695)    (8,490)    15.306           17,434      25,017         (7,479)        5,476        20,171
Total Net Income (Loss)                       2= (R2W    (------)   (                   (4s5)    c52=)    (1982)                           9---4)  10801  (   -5z577)   -1-4 -
Rate of Return                             Neg         Neg        Neg         Neg         Nag        Neg        11.5         8.16         8.37          5.10          5.99          8.63
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                      5,707       1,101      (2,602)    (3,302)    (3,190)    (1.658)    46,622         57,803       68,917         73,580        90,196       110,718
Borrowings                              31,500      37,300     53,500      46,985     56,603      97,343    139,803       165,818       47,965
Local Contribution to Construction                  21,056                 37,741     24,229      16,638         946
Total Contribution to Operations        23,846      26,322     26,091      22,107     61,530      77,272      53,404        27,926      21,983         45,230        37,146       40,804
Total Sources of Funds                            L5,7J093 5)7/9  (6.;9    1.0=3153139a122189a55            2Z-7        25_==        13is.65 3l7 i770             127,342       111x522
Applications of Funds
Construction                            22,611      54,009     34,529      70,360     80,700    113,981    140,749        165,818       47,965
Debt Service                            30,112      35,234     38,714      49,247     56,264      66.722      86,203        85,957      84,266        113,041       104,842        98,616
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)      8.330      (3,464)     3,746    (16,076)       2,208      8,892      13,823          (228)      6,634          5,769        22,500        52,906
Total Applications of Funds           61,053      862Z8                 103,531    139,172    189,59       240,775      2 1,547      138,865        118,810       1274342       151,522
Debt Service Coverage                        .19       .03        Neg         Neg         Neg        Neg          .52           .67        .82           .65           .86          1.]2
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets                           218,924    266,674    294,737    405,294    475,534    579,055    709,344          857,571      887,945        859,778       831,611      803,444
Sinking Fund                            65,003      76,578     89,743      96,950    102,414    113,288    131,484        141,990      139 03)0       133,154       127,011       133,085
Current Assets                          26,035      23,190     27,480      12,085     14,974      24,281      38,608        38,932      46 172         53,313        76,446       130,033
Total Assets                          O91 2 cc6_            411 9605143            192 222   716Af624    8              03743L                                  1 23p4  150462  c 035=068    1,066, 562
Equity and L,iabilities
Equity                                  42.012      65.468     62,087    132,109    174,317    221,632    274,000         299,8J2      332,596        367,249       403,509       472.152    0 ,:
Long-term Debt                         260,631    292.786    335.561    362,353    392,285    459,765    566,443          685,560      675,598        6 2,528       584.698       548,511
Current Liabilities                      7.319       8,188     14,306      19,867     26,320      35,227      38,993       53,121       644953         61.468        46,861        45,8999 
Total Equity and Liabilities              6      3          4-  -960    114-32- 5926922    756r6           -4                                       046,245    1.035.069    1.66362    n
309.962    366 '42  9:6=     1.&42                              79,436    1,039,493      3      7__
Current Ratio                              3.56        2.83        1.92        .61         .57        .69         .99         .73            .71         .87          1.63           2983
Debt-Equity Ratio                         86/14       82/18      84/16       73/27      69/31       67/33       67/33        70/30       67!33          63/37         59/41         54/56



0148SII WAT4ER1 SlPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Fiancil Statenents
Rajkot
(R. 000)
Prof are, At-l                  I tcl                                            Fo     te                      c      a     s    t -
For the Year Endin -March 31                   1978       1979       1980        1981       1982        1983        1984         1985        1986         1987        1988         1989
Incoee statewlest
Water Supply
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Existing Tariff           2,748      2,733      2.930       2,93       3,337        3,429       3.543        6,927       6,996        7,066      14,552       24,867
- Tariff Increase                                                                _    _           3,315                                6,926        9,359
Total Operating Revenues                  2.743      2,733      2.930       2.950      3,337       3.429        6.858        6.927       6,996       13.992      23.911       24,867
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreelation                   2.441      2,728      3,458       4,311      5.174        5.395       5.741        6,466       7.055       15.129      16.277       17.289
Depreciation                              1,373      1,411D     1.415       1,955      1,955        1,955       1,955 1,955              1,955        7,634       7.634        7,634
Total Operating Expenses                  3.814      4,178      4,873       6,266      7,129        7.350       7.696        8,421       9,010       Z2,763      23,911       24.923
Net Operating Lncoe  (oss)               (1,066)    (1,445)    (1,943)    (3,316)    (3,792)       (3,921)       (838)      (1,494)     (2.014)      (8.771)       -             (56)
Interest Expense (etc.)                     3,028      3.141      3.202       3,132      5.949       2,341        2.363        2,190       2.013       18,919      17.490       15.933
Net Incee   ls ((I,94..)563                                      (5,3145)    (676)      (97           6,462)     (3201)       (3,684)     (4,027)    (27,690)    (17,490)    (15,989)
Sewverage
operting Reveue  - Sewrage Tax
Existing Tariff                                                                                                                                      23,873      25.783       27,330
Tariff Increase 
Total Operating Revenues                                                                                                                             23.873      25.783       27,330
Operating Epenses
Other Than Depreciation                                                                                                                              16,154      17,751       19.098
Depreciatien                                                                                                                                          7,8719      7.719        7.719
Total Operating                                                                                                                                                  25,p 23,873  25,470  26.817
Net Operating In.o-e W-.)                                                                                                                                           323          513
Tnterest Epense ((tc.                                      2)        (38)      (113)      (193)        (306)       (418)        (531)       (644)      17,968      17.233       16.527
Net TIcoe (loss)                                           2          56        113      _193           306         418          531         644      (17,968)    (16.910)    (16,014)
Total N1et Incoe (loSS)                      (.094)    (4,5F43    (5.89)    (6.3553    (9.548)         (6,156)      (2,7_)        ~3.5a)     (=,=83)    (45,658)    (34.400)    (32,g03)      z
Rate of iletutn                               Neg        3eg        Xeg         3Iz        Xleg        Neg          Neg          Neg         Neg          Neg           .06          .08
Fund Flow, Stateo-at
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                           307        (43)       (472)    (1,248)    (4,544)      (1,660)      1.535          992         585        7.338      16.545       16,711
Borrowings                                  4400       4.400      3.000       3,30D      5.3011                  44,600       80.000      34,500      706,367
Local Contribution to Cunstun.tion          1,333                     95      1,3150       900       10.000      21,200       30,000      18,600
Local Contribution to Interest Dunrg
C .nst-utien                                196        397        602        9831      1.183        1,183       3.747       10.912      17,184
ol Contributio  t.oOp tion                  2,800      38314       4.660      ,3313      7,963        8,758       4,824        8,871      14.097       67,561      45.823       43,354
_____                         ______                                            ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~30, 679  ___
Total Sources of Funds                    9.03       8,5639 10.546                                                         1Do,775  84 966          311945       67.368       60,065
Applications of Funds
Co.structino                                5,929      4,287      4,202       5.433      7,D;3       11,183      69.547      120.912      70,284      243,533
Debt Service                                2,3047     3,561      3,87/9      4,032     -5,147        5,692       5,526        8,174      13.014       58,949       58,775      58,609
W orking Capital Increase (Decrease)          803        2151       (196)     1,031      (2,0593      1,406         833        1,689       1,668        9,463        3,593       1,456
Total Applications of Funds               96036      S,563      2,SBS           10,      _13       38_281        Z5Q6L7 _329 flh26                                Q?i3=  _65
Debt Service Coverage                           13       Xeg        'N.g        Neg        Neg         Xeg            .28         .12          .04         .13          .28         .29
As of March 31
Balance Sheet                                                                                                                                                                                  >i
Assets
Fixed Assets                               53,146     56,133     38,820      79,248     84,416       93,644     161.236      280,193     348,522      576,702     561,349      545.996
Sinking Fund                                  187        561      1,135       1,929      3,056        4,183       5,310        6,437       7.564        8,691        9,818      10,945       r
Current Assets                              3,740      4.50W      4.350       5,455<     3.374        3,152       2,359        2,422       2,470       13.933       17.729      19.423
Total Assets                             57 073     _1.094     F4_7&  al6,572         9846    !Too L9          68.905      2899052     358551 =23206    =88L=6    126,364
Iquity and Liabilities
Equity                                     15,095     14,717      14.985     34,064    34,562       48,347      75,335      121.965     168.463      221.045     232,468      243,819
Long-tens Debt                             38.627     41.80      431499      45,*98     47.172       45,136      84.879      155,005     176.641      353,637      329,516     302.750
Current Liabilities                         3.351      '4522      5,82!      .7,110      9,1 312      7,496       8.691       12,082      13,452       24,624       26,912      29,795
Total Eqity and Liabilities               773       6    4       42            72     90.4        10 79        68905        89 02      358)556      599,306     28,9         56
Current Ratio                                 1.12        .98         .7.5 .2                .37         .42          .27         .20          .18         .57          .66         .65
Debt Equity Ratio                             22/28      74/y26      24y26      57/43       58242      48152        53/47       56/44        51/49       62/38         59/41      55/45
1/  cIncode interest earned on Sinking Fund.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statements
Anand
(Rs 000)
For the Year Ending March 31                             1978       1979       1980         1981        1982        1983        1984         1985         1986          1987         1988        1989
Income Statement
Water Supply
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Existing Tariff                      400        437        461         477          482          837         871       1,741        1,811         1,938        2,016        2,871
- Tariff Increase                                                                    330                     803       __718
Total Operating Revenues                             400        437       _461         477          812         T7        1,674        1,741        1,811         1,938        2,734        2,871
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                              574        600        538         647           734         811         899         974        1,819         1.988        2,207        2,436
Depreciation                                          70         91        112         196          198          196         196         1-96          527          527         5_27          527
Total Operating Expenses                             644        691        650         843          930        107          195        1,170        2,346         2,515        2.734        2,963
Net Operating Income (Loss)                           (244)      (254)      (189)       (366)         (118)       (170)        579          571         (535)         (577)        -             (92)
Interest Expense                                        70         69         66          62            58          56         52            48          653          628           600         571
Net Income ( s)                                       (314)      (323)      (255)        (428)        (176)       (226)        527          523       (1,188)      (1,205)         (600)       (663)
Sewerage
Operating Revenues
Sewerage Tax etc. - Existing                         187        218        221         317          330          409         451         900        1.161         1.498        1,588        3,517
- Increase                                                                                               367          __                                               _1,730
Total Operating Revenues                             1877       28         221         317           330         409                                                              318 900  1,61  1,498  3,1  3,517
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                              303        329        386         456           511         563         617         663           730        1,999         2.209       2.418
Depreciation                                          84         95        104         191           191         191         191         191           191        1,109         1,109       1.109
Total Operating Expenses                             387        424        490         647           702         Y5          808         S54           921        3,108         3,318       3,527
Net Operating Income (Loss)                           (200)      (206)      (2'69)       (330)        (372)       (345)         10           46          240       (1,610)         -             (10)
Interest Expense                                        40         37         34          31            28          25          23           20           17        1,897         1,827       1,751
Net Incomle (Loss)                                    (240)      (24-3)     (303)        (361)        (400)       (370)            )         26          223       (3507)        (182)       (1,761)
Total Net Income (Loss)                                 (54)        5          (           (Z62)        () 142                                                              )      ( i4 e) Qaj42
Rate of Return                                           Neg        Neg        Neg          Meg         Neg         Neg        5.29         6.32         Neg          Neg                       Neg
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                                   (290)      (274)      (242)       (309)         (103)       (128)        976       1,004           423          (551)       1,636       1.534
Borrowings                                                                                                                                             7,170       22.148
Local Contribution to Construction                   1,n11      1.250      1,240
Local Contribution to Operations                       454        417        455         419           361         327                                               3,847        2,781        2.223
Government Grant-In-Aid                                                                                                                                6,110       15,945
Increase In Other Liabilities                       _               7          8            2            5           4           4            4             4            7            4            6
Total Sources                                      IL7=5      1LO                      112           263         203        292        14220        11j.Z22 7    _1Ua2k gAzl 
Applications of Funds
Construction                                         1,111      1.250      1,240                                                                      13,280        38.093
Debt Service                                           172        201        197         190           185         180         176          169        1.028         3,690        3.684        3.679
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)                     (8)        (51)       24          (78)          78          23          804         839          (601)        (387)         737           84
Total Applications                                 LMe         &9        lal00   14   112                       T03         980       1            e2 e         e 961 442
Debt Service Coverage                                    Neg        Neg        Neg         Neg          Neg         Neg        5.55         5.94           .41         Neg            .44         .42
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets                                         4,935      5.999      7.023      11.109       10,722       10,335       9,948        9.561       22,123       58,580        56.944      55.308
Current Assets                                         339        288        312         251           342         375       1.190        2,040        1.512         1,243        2.012       2,131
Total Assets                                       51274      SC647    =0:;e 1l360                1I.,64                     L3 8                  i2&63=        59e823        _           5_
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                               3.522      4.623      5,760       9.863        9,648        9.379       9,893       10,442       15,587       30,667        31,021      30R990
Long-term Debt                                       1.503      1.406      1,309       1,210         1,111       1.010          909         806        7.341        27.447       26.090      74,625        -:
Other Liabilities                                       82         89         97          99           104         108          112         116          120           127          131          137
Current Liabilities                                    167        169        169        188            201         213          224         237          587         1.582        1,714        1,857
Total Equity and Liabilities                      5A.L7j      4AZ8=7     Z33        11x36        11O64.      10~470                     -----       -- --         -- ---                                m
Current Ratio                                          2.03       1.70       1.85        1.34          1.70        1.76        5.31         8.61         2.58           .79         1.17         1.15       n
Debt-Equity Ratio                                      30/70      23/77      19/81       11/89         10/90       10/90       8/92         7/93         32/68         47/53        46/54        44/56



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statements
Bhavnagar
(Rs 000)
Proforma Actual              Estimated                                                  Forecast
For the Year Ending March 31                1978         1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985       1986         1987         1988         1989
Income Statement
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Existing Tariff          1,435        1,403       1,426       3,390       3,874      4,407       5,083       9,078      9,260        14,562       14,853       23,342
- Tariff Increase         ____                                 __                                 3,731       ___         3, 692                     7_900
Total Operating Revenues               1,435         1,403      1,426       3,390       3,874      4,407       8,814       9,078      12,952        14,562      22,753       23,342
Operating Expense
Other Than Depreciation                  2,064        2,085       2,619       3,183       3,557      3,914      10,768      11,874      13,206       16,864       18,632       20,702
Depreciation                               214           250        271         380         380        380       2,148       2,148       2,148         4,121       4,121        4,121
Total Operating Expense                2,278         2,335      2,890       3,563       3,937      4,294      12,916      14,022      15, 354       2095        22,753       24,823
Net Operating Income (Loss)                 (843)         (932)    (1,464)       (173)        (63)        113     (4,102)    (4,944)    (2,402)         (6, 42a        -          (1,481)
Interest Expense                             500           256                  5,395       5,379      4,941       4,501       3,976       7,664        7,541        6,726        6,132
Net  Income   (Loss)                      (1C2- )       (Q.L3W) (i      6)      (          (5,44)      (4&88)        .3  )    . ,L2      (194,R63)     (3=26A)      K63726)      U613)
Rate of Return                             Neg           Neg        Neg         Neg         Neg          .50        Neg         Neg         Neg          Neg                      Neg
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                       (629)         (682)    (1,193)        207         317        493      (1,954)    (2,796)        (254)       (2,302)      4,121        2,640
Borrowings                                            31,500     18,000       5,000                                                                   54,148
Local Contribution to Construction         122         1,437        872                      53      1,808       3,174       4,324       2,148
Local Contribution to Operation          1,500         1,049      1,293       6,999       9,701      9,417      13,458      12, 396     15,044        16,803      11,669       10,472          1
Government Grant                                                  9,060       1,600       4,340     11,360                                           15,343       _            _               i
Total Sources of Funds                  93                3     893_       1383    i4b41i          33O78      14678      1924        353235       83'792      151790       131112
Applications of Funds
Construction                               122        30,437     27,932       6,600       4,393     13,168       3,174       4,324       2,148       69,491
Debt Service                               695           256        181       9,793       9,777      9,794      10,172       9,549      13,704        14,087      13,451       13,046
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)        176         2,611         (81)    (2,587)        241         116      1,332          51       1,086           414        2,339           66
Total  Applications  of  Funds           _          _33,304    28032                              23e78 14=A4J  3   _     13,924 :                  83-2?2      15Z79         _5X1_?
Debt Service Coverage                      Neg          Neg         -eg-         ,02         .03                    N eg        Neg         Meg          Neg           .31          .18
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
AsseTts-
Fixed Assets                             7,652        37,839     65,500      75,115      79,128     91,916      92,942      95,118      95,118       160,488     156,367      152,246
Current Assets                             865         3,476      3,441         893       1,167      1,312       3,201       3,348       4,539         5,256        7,732        7,977
Total  Assets                           3  _        41 315            l     36=b=33    U ,&6 i     9  2 5                  2853__ 9U3    Z         )2. 165 .744  164 b0 99
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                   1,403         2,701     12,462      18,888      27,540     45,297      53,326      61,126      68,252        86,434      91,377       94,236
Long-term Debt                           6,942        38,261      51,863     52,465      47,612     41,941      36,368      31,917      23,782        71,205      64,291        57,167
Current Liabilities                        172           353      4,616       4,655       5,143      5,990       6,449       5,423       7,623         8,105        8,431       8,820
Total Equity and Liabilities           81517         315       HLBI        ==jg/       ==b=2      U&M         26 L43      983333      99b55=       1655744     _4b7630 1083223
Current Ratio                              5.03          9.85         .75         .19        .23         .22         .50        .62         .60           .65          .92          .90
Debt-Equity Ratio                          83/17         93/7        81/19      74/26       63/37       48/52      41/59       34/66       26/74         45/55        41/59        38/62          5 X
Sr.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statements
Godhr-
(RR 000)
Proforma Actual     _        Estimated                              Forecast
For the Year Ending March 31                 T978       1979       1980       1f98      1982      1983       1984      1985       1986        1987        1988        1989
Income Statement
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Excluding Tariff         465         471         475       511        514       518       523      1,046       1,234       3,908       4,064       5,217
Tariff Increase                                                                          513                  2,524                     952
Total Operating Revenues               465        471         475        511        514       518     1,036      1,046       3,758       3,908       5,016       5,217
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                  556         736.       813        800        890       974     1,065      1,143       3,846       4,087       4,401       4,714
Depreciation                              19          22          22        61         61        61        61         61         615         615         615         615
Total Operating Expenses               575        7835                   861        951    1,035      1,126      1,204      4,461       4.702       5,016       5,329
Net Operating Income (Loss)               (110)       (287)       (360)      (350)     (437)    (517)        (90)     (158)       (703)       (794)       -           (112)
Interest Expense                                                   _          94         85        75        66         56       1,368       1,312       1,251       1,186
Net Income (Loss)                         (110)       287k      &360       444)      522)    592)    _156)        214)      (ZA_71)     (2X06)      (1.251)     (.298)
Rate of Return                             Neg         Neg       Neg        Neg        Neg      Neg         Neg       Neg         Neg         Neg         -           Neg
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                      (91)       (265)      (338)      (289)      (376)    (456)       (29)       (97)        (88)       (179)        615         503
Borrowings                                                      800                                                           15,529
Local Contribution to Construction         7         107         27
Local Contribution to Operation           40                               347        534       607       341        229       2,815       2,210       1,665       1,521
Government Grants                                               280                                                           13,031
Increase in other Liabilities                       313         377          3          1                   1          1          12           4           3           3
Total Sources of Funds                 44k       155       ij146         61        159      151        313        133    3214222          035        28 28027
Appl4&cations of Funds
Construction                               7        107       1,107                                                           28,560
Debt Service                                                               174        165      155        146        136       1,998       1,989       1,979       1,969
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)    (51)          48          39       (113)        (6)       (4)      167         (3)        741          46         304      _58
Total Applications of Funds           I A         T         1A'6        6=1         159      151        . ..99 2-035                                 2.=         Z 02
Debt Service Coverage                      NA         NA         NA         Neg        Neg       Neg        Neg        Neg        Neg         Neg         .31         .26
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets                            488         573       1,658      2,411     2,350    2,289       2,228      2,167     30,112      29,497      28,882       28,267
Current Assets                          163         211         250        196        198      200        374        378       1,337       1,406       1,735       1,820
Total Assets                          651         784          908     2,607     2.548    2,482 9     Z            45      21.449      30.903      30.617      30,087
Equity and Liabilities
Equity (Deficit)                        178          (2)        (55)       662       674       689        874        889     14,664      14,768      15,182      15,405
720       640        560      480        400        320      14,622      13,894      13,111      12,269
Long-term Debtite                       466         779       1,156      1,159     1,160    1,160       1,161      1,162      1,174        1,178       1,181       1,184
Other Liabilities-129
Current Liabilities                        7          7          87        146       154       160        167        174         989       1,063       1,143       1,229
Total Equity and Liabilities          _51         784       1.908     2t607      2,548   2_489_       2602      2,545      31.449      30&903         .6Z17    3  087
Current Ratio                             23.29      30.14      2.87       1.34      1.29      1.25       2.24       2.17        1.35        1.32        1.52        1.48
Debt Equity Ratio                         0/100      0/100      108/(8)   49/51      45/55    41/59       31/69      26/74       50/50       48/52       46/54       44/56
1/ Includes item such as water connection deposits and bulk water charges relating to prior fiscal years.



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statements
Jamnagar
CRs 000)
Proforma Actual             Estimated                                             Forecast
For the Year Ending March 31                  1978         1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986          1987         1988         1989
Income Statement
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Existing Tariff               825      1,022        1,021       1,538       1,581       1,617       1,654       3,299       10,659        10,872       11,198       12,025
Tariff Increase                                                                                   1,580       __           ____                          477
Total Operating Revenues                   825       1,022       1,021       1,538       1,581       1,617        3,234       3,299       10,659        10,872       11,675       12,025
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                    1,153        1,420      1,815        2,773       3,094       3,386       3,703       3,983         7,402        8,230        8,933        9,569
Depreciation                                  243         246         252         806         806         806         806         806        _L2,742       2,742        2,742        2,742
Total Operating Expenses                 1,396       1,666        2,067      3,579       3,900        4,192       4,509       4,789       10,144        10,972       11,675       12,311
Net Operating Income (Loss)                    (571)       (644)     (1,046)     (2,041)     (2,319)     (2,575)     (1,275)     (1,490)          515         (100)        -             (286)
Interest Expense                             1,156          320           9         736         609         482         365          282        6,616        6,364        6,091         5,797
Net Income (Loss)                           1727)         (964)     (LO=)       (12,77)     (2,928)     (_3,057)    (1640)     (1L772)       &6A101)                   LM2464)  i629)  ;g3)
Rate of Return                               Neg          Neg         Neg         Neg         Neg         Neg          Neg          Neg          .66         Neg           -           Neg
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                          (328)       (398)       (794)    (1,235)      (1,513)     (1,769)       (469)        (684)       3,257        2,642        2,742         2,456
Borrowings                                                35075,168
Local Contribution to Construction              7         122         241                   4,721       5,056       3,499       1,106
Local Contribution to Operations           3,179        1,438       1,218       3,038       3,715       3,702       2,453       2,030         8,534        7,003        7,068         7,202          1
Government Grants                                                                                                                           _ 9,196
Total Sources of Funds                   2 858       1,512          665      1,803        6,923       6,989       =           =           =              _ ___                     9  5
Applications of Funds
C6nstruction                                    7         472         241                   4,721       5,056       3,499       1,106        94,364
Debt Service                                2,743         794         275       2,321       2,194       1,927       1,413        1,330        9,636        9,610        9,583         9,556
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)           108         246         149        (518)          8           6         571           16        2,155           35           227          102
Total Applications of Funds              2,858       1,512          665      Ie=03        6,923       6-989         4         2^=42    10=l=55           9S645        9,t10        9,_ e=
Debt Service Coverage                          Meg        Neg         Neg         Neg         Neg         Neg          Meg          Meg          .3            .              9           2
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets                              17,242      17,468       17,457      21,274      25,189      29,439      32,132      32,432       124,054      121,312      118,570       115,828
Current Assets                                542         788         937         559         594         625       1,219       1,261         3,644        3,760        4,033         4,184
__-_                                         _ _,93                                        lz          1 2502        1224003
Total Assets                            17.784      lB .SSa     138294      2lU833       25,783                 N3=-_l       33,693       127 698                   12z2OgO
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                      7,032       7,628       8,032      12,916      18,424      24,125      28,437      29,801        51,430       51,969       52,946        54,065
Long-term Debt                             9,833        9,917       8,332       6,747       5,302       4,254       3,206        2,851       72,108       68,616       64,857        60,809
Other Liabilities-                            359         359         359         359         359         359          359         359          359          359           359          359
Current Liabilities                           560         352       1,671       1,811       1,698       1,326       1,349          682       3,801         4,128        4,441      _ 4,779
Total Liabilities                       L7S___      183269 381394            21,833      25,783      30=O64      33X35l      3e=e==       1274698      125,072      122,603       120e 012
Current Ratio                                  .97        2.24         .56         .31         .35         .47          .90        1.85          .96           .91          .91          .88
Debt/Equity Ratio                            58/42       57/43       51/49       34/66       22/78       15/85         10/90       9/91        58/42        57/43         55/45         53/47
n Me
1/  Pertains to purchase of bulk water from Irrigation Department during the period October 1972 to August 1975. 



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statesents
Nadiad
(Is 000)
Proforma Actual           Estimated                                                Forecast
For the Year Ending March 31,              1978       1979       1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985       1986         1987        1988         1989
Income Statement
Water Supply
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Existing Tariff         675        684        722         735        762        788         830      1,623       1,726        2.769        5,383       7,300
- Tariff Increase                                                                            746      __862                    2.409        1,636
Total Operating Revenues                675        684       7_22         735        762        78        1.576      1,623      2,588         5,176        7,019       7.300
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                 751      1,058      1,278       1.523      1.721      1.904       2.099      2.280       2,509        4,870        5.323       5,809
Depreciation                            225        231        239         473        473        550         550        550         550        1,696        1.696       1.696
Total Operating Expenses                976      1.289      1,517       1,996      2.194      2,454       2,649      2.830       3.059        6.566        7.019       7,505
Net Operating Income (Loss)              (301)      (605)       (795)    (1,261)    (1.432)    (1.666)    (1,073)    (1.207)        (471)      (1.390)        -           (205)
Interest Expense                           83        183        228         230        225        213         201        188      2.555         2,738       2,622        2.499
Net Income (Loss)                        (384)      (788)    (1.023)    (1.491)    (1,657)    (1.879)    (1,274)    (1.395)    (3,026)         (4,128)      (2.622)     (2.704)
Sewerage
Operating Revenues
Sewerage Tax - Existing                 524        491        561        667         681        691         703      1.410      1.438         2.074        3.648       6.182
- Increase                                                                                    679      _             350         1,502       2,354
Total Operating Revenues              5_24         491         61        667         681        691       1.382      1,410      1.788         3.576        6,002       6,182
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                 609        836        904       1.080      1.209      1.327       1,456      1,568      1.710         3,084        3.321       3.536
Depreciation                             82         84         87         398        398        398         398        398         398        2,681        2,681       2.681
Total Operating Expenses                691        920        991       1,478      1,607      1,725       1.854      1.966       2,108        5.765        6.002       6,217
Net Operating Income (Loss)              (167)      (429)      (430)       (811)      (926)    (3,034)       (472)      (556)       (320)      (2,189)        -            (35)
Interest Expense                                                                                                                                5,488       5.293        5.082
Net Income (Loss)                        (167)      (429)      (430)       (811)      (926)    (1,034)       (472)      (555)       (320)      (7.677)      (5.293)     (5,117)
Net Income (Loss) Total Operation        (551)    (1,217)    (1_453_) (2,3,02)    (2_583)    (2.913)    (1)           (1,95)    (_)           (1(7,915)                 (1)
Rate of Return                             Neg        Neg        Neg        Neg         Neg        Meg        Meg         Neg        Neg          Neg           -         Neg
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                      (161)      (719)      (899)    (1.201)    (1.487)    (1.752)        (597)      (815)        157          798       4.377        4.137
Borrowings                              1,300                   600                                                                            95.800
Local Contribution to Construction        624        320        434                    705      1,477       2.519      1,487         968
Local Contribution to Operations          465        960      1,161      1,380       1,863      2.120       1.498      1.172       3,883       12,288        8.667       7,845
Government Grants                                    437        _38,803                                                                                     _
Total Sources of Funds                2 ,22        998         86 179                1        1,845      3,420       1,844       5=00                     13,044_9
Applications of Funds
Construction                            1,924        757      1.034                    705      1,477      2,519       1,487        968       134,603
Debt Service                              150        250        328        297         379        367         355        342       3,667       11.875       11.862      11.850
Working Capital (Decrease)                154         (9)       (66)       (118)        (3)         1         546         15         373        12211        1.182         132
Total Applications of Funds           222          998      1,296        179       18081      1.84       3,4_        !a4"       _           1            ,5_          1198
Debt Service Coverage                     Neg         Neg        Neg        Meg         Neg        Neg       Neg          Neg         .04           .36        .37          .35
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets                          10,193      10,635     11.343     20,510      20.344     20.873     22,444      22.983     23,003       153,229     148.852      144,475
Current Assets                           531         522        456        441         466        491      1,061       1,102      1,504         3.017       4,255        4.449
Total Assets                         10;724    11.157       11799     209         202 _64               23.505      2485       24,507         62i46     153.107      14.24
Equity and Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                n 4
Equity                                 8,165       8,665      8,807     17,923      17,908     18,592     20.863      21.571     23,076        62,362      63,114       63.138
Long-term Debt                         2,383       2.283      2,816      2,662       2,508      2,354      2,200       2,046         934       89.292      85,023       80,404        .
Current Tiabilities                      176         209        176        366         394        418        442         468         497        4.592        4,970       5,382
Total Equity and Liabilities         07'2=4     1,157      117L99     20= 9       051  10    2164       23_505      24985      =4=_=        16,46       153,107      JL724
Current Ratio                            3.02        2.50       2.59       1.20        1.18       1.17       2.40        2.35       3.03            .66         .86         .83
Debt-Equity Ratio                         23/77      21/79      24/76      13/87       12/88      1189      9/91        9/91       4/96         59/41        57/43       56/44



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statements
Savarkundla
(Rs 000)
Proforma                Estimated                                                Forecast
For the Year Ending March 31,                 1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985       1986       1987        1988         1989
Income Statement
Water Supply
Operating Revenues
Water Charges - Existing Tariff           103        113        123        125        127        129        131         263        268         745         752       1,071
- Tariff Increase                                                                            127                   328                      298
Total Operating Revenues                 103         113        123        125        127        19         258        263         596         745       1,050       1,071
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                   275        300        431        509        575        635        696         756        829         889         957       1.022
Depreciation                               23         55         55         93         93         93         93          93         93          93          93           93
Total Operating Expenses                 298         355        486        602        668        728        789          49        922         982       1,050       1.115
Net Operating Income (Loss)                (          (42)       (363)      (477)      (_5T)      (599)       (531)      (586)      (326)       (237)       -             (44)
Interest Expense                            188        155         90         48         45         42          38         36         34          31           28          25
Net Income (Loss)                          (33)       (397)      (453)      (525)      (586)      (641)       (569)      (622)      (360)       (268)         (28)        (69)
Sewerage
Operating Revenues
Sewerage Tax - Existing                                                                                                                      1,569       1,631       1,680
- Increase
Total Operating Revenues                                                                                                                     1,569       1,631       1.680
Operating Expenses
Other Than Depreciation                                                                                                                        730         770          8hS
Depreciation                                                                                                                                   863         863          863
Total Operating Expenses                                                                                                                     1,593       1.633       1,728
Net Operating Incom                                                                                                                               (24)         (2)        (48)
Interest Expense                                                                                                                               1.413       1,363        1,308
Net Income (Loss)                                                                                                                             (1i,j37)    (1,365)      (1,356)
Net Income (Loss) Total Operations         (383)      (3z)       (45)       (52)       (58)       (64)        (629)      (R)        (36)    (a22)    (I21)    (14Z2)
Rate of Return                               Neg        Neg        Neg        Neg        Nag        Neg         Neg        Neg        Neg        Neg          Neg         Neg
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                        (172)      (187)      (308)      (384)      (448)      (506)       (438)      (493)      (233)        695         954          864
Borrowings                                  100                                                                                               16,621
Local Contribution to Operations            376        373        436        373        540        595         566        578        407       1,815       1,210        1,223
Government Grant                                       355                                                                                    17,896
Total Sources of Funds                    304        541        18         M)          9.2       A2 _       15                     174      =7,3         Llt-         ME
Applications of Funds
Construction                                100        355                                                                                    34,517
Debt Service                                206        185        116         94         91         88          84         82         80       2,079       2,066        2,073
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)          (2)         1         12       (105)         1          1          44          3         94         431           98          14
Total Applications                        304        51         12         211)       _2J 8                 128          81 174             37027        =164 
Debt Service Coverage                        Neg        Neg        Neg        Neg       Neg         Neg        Neg         Neg        Neg          .33          46         .42
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets                              1,341      1,833      1,778      2,672      2,579      2,486      2,393      2,300       2,207      35 768      34.812      33,d56
Current Assets                              143        146        169         70         77         83         132        140        239      _  734         842          867
Total Assets                           .,a484        2       LJ1Zl                                                   22 ZL64O_ -5  "   2i 2= 2 =46  3H 4565=        342723
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                      640        971        954      1,789      1,743      1,697      1,694       1,650      1,697      19.703      19,520      19.38
Long-term Debt                              791        765        719        673        627        581        535         489        443      15.800      15,060      14,261
Other Liabilities                                      192        192        192        192        192        192         192        192         192         192          192
Current Liabilities                          53         51         82         88         94         99        104         109        114         807         882          952
Total Equity and Liabilities        a                Z2        2fZ _    2  =                                                    2,446       3i=A2  Zl2=  2
Current Ratio                               2.70       2.86       2.06        .80        .82        .84       1.27        1.28       2.10         .91          .95         .91
Debt-Equity Ratio                           55/45      44/56      43/57      27/73      26/74      26/74      24/76       23/77      21/79      45JSS        44/56      42/58



-83-                       ANNEX 23
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.      Financial projections for the project areas have been prepared for
the fiscal years 1981/82 through 1988/89. Estimated (budget) figures were
used for the base fiscal years 1980/81. The financial statements included
as Annex 22 are summaries--the detailed statements are included in the
Feasibility Studies.
Income Statement
Revenues
Urban Areas
2.      For Ahmedabad, water and sewerage taxes have been projected at an
increase rate of 15% per year based on the experience of the prior 10 years.
For all other Project Cities the water usage charges have been calculated on
the basis of present tariff structure for each local body through the fiscal
year 1982/83 reflecting the estimated increase in water connections
anticipated.
3.      Sewerage taxes in Anand and Nadiad have been increased based on
experienced growth rates and reflect planned periodic reassessments.
Sewerage taxes for Rajkot and Savarkundla, following the initiation of these
new services, were estimated at an amount which would cover all operating and
maintenance, including depreciation.
4.      Direct Revenues in all Project Cities were doubled in FY1983/84 to
reflect the proposed increase in taxes and tariffs. Revenues were further
increased in subsequent years to reflect additional tariff and tax increases
required to produce a higher percentage of coverage of operating and
maintenance costs, including depreciation, by direct revenues in accordance
with the following goals:
Percentage Coverage
Percentage Fiscal Year                      1985/86              1987/88
Ahmedabad                                      85                    100
Rajkot                                         75                    100
Anand                                          85                    100
Bravnagar                                      85                    100
Godhra                                         85                    100
Jamnagar                                       85                    100
Nadiad                                         85                    100
Savarkundla                                    65                    100



-84-                              ANNEX 23
Page 2 of 3
For Rajkot and Nadiad, where the goal for FY1987/88 requires substantial
increases over the FY1985/86 gnal, on interim increase has been reflected
in FY1986/87.
5.      Revenues for Jamnagar reflect, as a separate item, revenues for
servicing of the military area equal to the costs of providing this service
in accordance with contract provisions.
Rural Areas
6.      Water supply revenues reflected a local annual contribution of Rs 6
per capita plus an allocation from the 10% surcharge on sales taxes adequate
to completely cover the costs of operating and maintaining the water supply
facilities.
Operating Expenses
7.      Power charges have been based on the capacity of pumping equipment
and hours of pumping at the prevailing rates of the Electricity Board. Since
these rates are current rates, the costs for each year were escalated using a
factor of 1 1/2 times the cumulative inflation rate applicable to that year.
8.      Chemical costs were projected based on method of treatment and
escalated utilizing the applicable inflation factors.
9.      Maintenance costs were projected at 0.5% of the gross fixed asset
value (excluding interest during construction capitalized) increased at a 6%
annual compounding rate.
10.     Salaries and wages have been calculated based on the additional staff
requirement utilizing current pay rates plus a 20% provision for indirect
payroll costs. These current rates were then projected utilizing the
applicable inflation factors.
11.     Administrative expenses were projected at 2% of all other expenses.
12.     The provision for bad debts was projected .at an amount that would
insure the Reserve for Doubtful Accounts was maintained at 5% of Accounts
Receivable.
13.     Depreciation was calculated at the rate of 2.5% of the value of fixed
assets excluding land.
14.     Casual labor charges for rural areas were estimated at 2% of total
expenses exclusive of the GWSSB administrative charges.



ANNEX 23
-85-                              Page 3 of 3
15.     The GWSSB administrative charge for rural scheme was projected at
17.85% of total expenses.
16.     Interest on GOG loans including to IDA fund component was calculated
at 8 1/2% per annum. Interest on other loans for Ahmedabad was calculated at
11% and for Rajkot at 7%. Interest accrued during construction was added to
the principal amount of the loans at project completion.
Balance Sheet
17.     Plant in Service reflects all costs experienced or expected to be
experienced to complete their construction including engineering costs,
contingencies, and interest accrued during construction capitalized. The
existing assets at March 31, 1980 were revalued to reflect current costs at
that date. No further revaluation has been reflected.
18.     The value of Plant Under Construction was closed to Plant In Service
in accordance with the construction schedule for that plant.
19.     Cash was estimated at an amount equal to one half month's operating
expenses exclusive of depreciation, provision for bad debts and
administrative expenses.
20.     Inventories were estimated at 2 months purchases of maintenance
stores and chemicals.
21.     Accounts receivable were assumed to be equal to 30% of the annual
revenues.
22.     Accounts payable were estimated at one month's purchases of
maintenance stores and chemicals plus one month's salaries and wages and one
month's power charges.
23.     The terms relative to long-term debt were as follows:
Other GOG loans - 19 years repayment period including 4 year of grace
Ahmedabad Other Loans- 12 years repayment with no grace period.
Repayment accomplished through a sinking fund.



-86-                                                 ANNEX 24
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statement
Consolidated Regional Water Supply Schemes
Forecast
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987      1988       1989
For the Year Ending March 31
Income Statement
Operating Revenues
Per Capita Assessment                                                  1,434       1,434      1,434      1,434
Government Grant from 10%
Surcharge on Sales Tax                                               4,826       5,494      6,087      6,736
Total Operating Revenues                                             6,260       6,928      7,521      8,170
Operating Expense (other than
depreciation)                                                        6,429       6,960      7,557      8,210
Net Loss Before Depreciation                                             (169)        (32)      (36)       (40)
Depreciation                                                           4,947       4,947      4,947      4,947
Net Loss                                                             (5,116)    (4,979)   (4,983)   (4,987)
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                                                      (169)        (32)      (36)       (40)
Government Grants-In-Aid              83,245    89,810       24,985
Total Sources of Funds              =2,g45    8 =810       24.985    = 1 9)      == 32)    = 53)         48)
Applications of Funds
Construction                          83,245    89,810       24,985
Working Capital Decrease                 _                               (169)     _(32)        (36)       (40)
Total Applications                  3245    M8A10          24t.985    =L=69)     =_Q3)    ==3)    ==140)
As of March 31
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets
Plant In Operation                                                 198,040    198,040   198,040   198,040
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                                       4,947      9,894    14,841    19,788
Net Plant In Operations                                          193,093    188,146   188,199   178,252
Plant Under Construction            83,245        055    198,040  _
Net Fixed Assets                  83,245   173,055    198,040  193,093    188,146   188,199   178,252
Current Assets                         _                                359         372       384        397
Total Assets                       J.=3245   1 73S55     8O=40  193.452    188a518   183.583   1 78.649
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                83,245   173,055    198,040  192,924    187,945   182,962   177,975
Current Liabilities                      _                                528         573       621        674
Total Equity and Liabilities        83245   173 _55    198 040  193.452    188.518   1 8583   178.649



ANNEX 25
-87-
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Financial Statement
Consolidated Individual Rural Water Supply Schemes
____________________________Forecast___________________
1982       1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989
For the Year Ending March 31
Income Statement
Operating Revenues
Per Capita Assessment                                                       9,942      9,942      9,942      9,942       9,942      9,942
Government Grant from 10%
Surcharge on Sales Tax                                                   22,143    24,352    27,165    29,768    32,639    36,056
Total Operating Revenues                                                 32,085    34,294    37,107    39,710    42,581    45,998
Operating Expensea (other than
depreciation)                                                              31,921    34,376    37 206    39,806    42,694    46,148
Net Profit (Loss) Before Depreciation                                           164         (82)        99)       (96)      (113)      (150)
Depreciation                                                                 42,603    42,603    42,603    42,603    42,603    42,603
Net Loss                                                                    (42.439)  (42,685)  (42,702)  (42699)  (42,716)   42,753
Fund Flow Statement
Sources of Funds
Internal Generation                                                           164        (82)        (99)       (96)      (113)      (150)
Government Grants-In-Aid                         653,933  1,087,576
Total Sources of Funds                         653,933  1,087,576           164        (82)       (99)        (96)      (113)      (150)
Applications of Funds                                                                                         _______
Construction                                     653,933  1,087,576
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)              __164                                    (82)       (99)       (96       (113)      (150)
Total Applications                             653,933  1,087,576           164        (82)        (99)       (96)      (113)      (150)
Balance Sheet
Assets
Fixed Assets
Plant In Operation                                                   1,741,509 1,741,509 1,741,509 1,741,509 1,741,509 1,741,509
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                                          42,603    85,206   1-27j89   170,412   213,015   255,618
Net Plant-In-Operation                                               1,698,906 1,656,303 1,613,700 1,571,097 1,528,494 1,485,891
Plant Under Construction                       653.933  1.741,509
Net Fixed Assets                             653,933  1,741,509  1,698,906 1,656,303 1,613,700 1,571,097 1,528,494 1,485,891
Current Assets                                                              2,787      2,912      3,045      3,162       3,286      3,418
Total Assets                                   653,933  1,741,509  1,701,693 1,659,215 1,616,745 1,574,259 1,531,780 1,489,309
Equity and Liabilities                             -
Equity                                           653,933  1,741,509  1,699,070 1,656,385 1,613,683 1,570,984 1,528,268 1,485,515
Current Liabilities                                                         2,623      2,830      3,062      3.275       3,512      3,794
Total Equity and Liabilities                   653,933  1,741,509  1,701,693 1,659.215 1,616,745 1,574.259 1,531,780 1,489.309



-88-                          ANNEX 26
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Board Activities
Receipts and Expenditure Statement
(Rs 000)
Proforma
Actual                Forecast
1981     1982   1983   1984    1985    1986
For tne Year Ending March 31
Receipts
Engineering Charges                   290     298    703        753     760      780
Rural Operating Subsidy                                68        80      97       98
Drilling Reg Charges                   70      77      85        94     103      103
Survey and Investigation Charges    10         12      12        12      12       12
Government Grant-In-Aid                       239               100     149      204
Miscellaneous                           5       6       7         8        9      10
Total Receipts                     375      632    875    1047   1,130   1,207
Expenditures
Salaries and Wages                   420      540    648        778     856   1,027
Administration                         42      42      94       112     113       57
Utilities                              42      42      94       112     113       57
Depreciation                            5       6       7         7        8      11
Other                                   2       2       5         5        6       3
Total Expenditures                 511      632    848    1,014   1,096   1,155
Surplus (Shortfall)                  (136)     -       27        33       34      52



-89-                                                ANNEX 27
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Loan Fund Account - GWSSB
(Rs 000)
Year Ending March 31                             1982     1983         1984           1985        1986         Total
Ralkot
Loan funds                                               26,636       67,187       70,259       10,677       174,754
Interest accrued during construction                      1,132       - 5,120      10,961       14,400        31,613
Total loan to be transferred                                                                               206,367
Government grants                                         5,234       11,026       11,465        2,954        30,679
Local Contribution to construction                       10,000       10,000       10,000       10,000        40,000
Total plant to be transferred                                                                              277 046
Anand
Water
Loan funds                                      8       3,608        2,187          307                      6,110
Interest accrued during construction                      154          400          506                      1,060
Total loan to be transferred                                                                               7,170
Government grants                               8       3,609        2,187          306                      6.110
Total plant to be transferred                                                                             13,280
Sewerage
Loan funds                                              1,827        2,416       11,225        4,020        19,488
Interest accrued during construction                       78          258          838        1,486         2,660
Total loan to be transferred                                                                              22,148
Government grants                                       1,494        1,977        9,185        3,289        15,945
Total plant to be transferred                                                                             38,093
Total water and sewerage plant                                                                            ,l1JZ2
Bhavnagar
Loan funds                                      230       7,834       13,754       18,736        9,311        49,865
Interest accrued during construction             10         352        1,270        2,651                      4,283
Total loan to be transferred                                                                                54,148
Government gtants                                71       2,411        4,232        5,765        2,864        15,343
Local contribution to construction               53       1,808        3,174        4,324        2.''         11,507
Total plant to be transferred                                                                               80.998
Godhra
Loan funds                                    3,165       4,487        4,405           973                    13,030
Interest accrued during construction            135         460          838        1,066                      2,499
Total loan to be transferred                                                                                15,529
Government grants                             3,165       4,488        4,405           973                    13,031
Total plant to be transferred                                                                               =28 560
Jamnagar
Loan funds                                   20,460      21,911       15,160        4,791                     62,322
Interest accrued during construction            870       2,670        4,246        5,060                     12,846
Total loan to be transferred                                                                                75,168
Government grants                             6,295       6,742        4,665        1,474                     19,196
Local contribution to construction            4,721       5,056        3,499        1,106                     14,382
Total plant to be transferred                                                                              10A746
Nadiad
Water
Loan funds                                    197       6,400       10,917        6,443        4,199        28,156
Interest accrued during construction            8         289        1,025        1,763                      3,085
Total loan to be transferred                                                                              31,241
Government grants                              61       1,969        3,359        1,982        1,292         8,663
Local contribution to construction             46       1,477        2,519        1,487          968         6,497
Total plant to be transferred                                                                             46,401
Sewerage
Loan funds                                              8,098       10,346       28,035        9,495        55,974
Interest accrued during construction                      344        1,128        2,759        4,354         8,58
Total loan to be transferred                                                                              64,559
Government grants                                       4,360        5,571       15,096        5,113         30,140
Total plant to be transferred                                                                             94,699
Total water and sewerage plant                                                                           14=l100
Savarkundla
Loan funds                                                1,157         2,313        7,854        3,318        14,642
Interest accrued during construction                          49          197          629        1,104         1,979
16,621
Government grants                                         1,415         2,826        9,600        4,055        17,896
Je-517



INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Statistics of Water-Related Diseases
1976                                             1977
Sr. District                         Entric    Gastro         Infectious                 Entric    Gastro       Infectious
No.                    Dysentery    Fever    Enteritis    Hepatitls   Dysentery   Fever   Enteritis    Hepatitis
1. nAhmedabad          12714         214          882           654         12755         12        243             9
2.  Amreli               143         154          555           246            536        84        186            91
3.  Banaskantha         5033         704          584            48          2994        404        424            60
4.  Baroda                30          21          343           828             50        39        105            18
5.  Bhavnagar           5697         195         3341           556          5271        671       3452           295
6.  Broach              4874         161          581            60           6830       308        780            60
7.  Bulsar              6289         196          853            52           7377       236        859           218                 $
8.  Bangs               8205          11          138            34           8009        45        198           207
9.  Gandhinagar         1216          -             5             1            612        -          -             -
10. Jamnagar            2555         135          790           726           3021       173       2603           240
11. Junagadh           11709         378          541           999           7043       513        184           276
12. Kaira               1219         133          -              23           2134       103         -              7
13. Kutch               2248         205          -              50           2643       111         -             36
14. Mehsana            15634         718         1815           245           9300      1287        395           168
15. Panchmahals         3097         473          629            95           2654       875        145            45
16. Rajkot              1610         140          175            89           2066       278         -             -                X
17. Sabarkantha         4251        1396           92            13          11011       198         76            47                X
18. Surat               2132           65        1412            21             84        -         221             1
19. Surendranagar        833         -            106            57            288         1          1            28



-91-
INDIA                                 ANNEX 29
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Investment for Poverty Groups
Project Component     Poverty Groups                   Project Investment
% of Total Population        Total                Poor
Water Supply                                             US$ Million
Bhavnagar                   22.8                   9.03                2.06
Jamnagar                    21.6                  11.28                2.44
Godhra                      41.7                   3.07                1.28
Nadiad                      22.1                   5.08                1.12
Anand                       34.3                   1.44                0.49
Rural                       40.0                  34.01               13.60
Sanitation
Ahmedabad                   40.0                  39.76               15.90
Rajkot                      11.0                  28.88                3.17
Anand                       34.3                   4.17                1.43
Nadiad                      22.1                  10.13                2.24
Savarkundla                 24.7                   3.83                0.94
Low-Cost                    30.0                   7.06                2.12
Other Items                 30.0                   1.73                0.52
Loan Fund                  100.0                   2.35               2.35
Total                       31.0                 161.82               49.66



-92-                         ANNEX 30
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1.      The followng indicators will be monitored, on a quarterly basis,
during and after the execution of the project to measure the achievement of
the technical, financial and administrative goals set for this project. The
beneficiary will be requested to include the required data in its Quarterly
Progress Reports to IDA. In each case, figures will be shown for the quarter
and the corresponding quarter one year earlier. The indicators will apply
to each of the subproject entities.
Physical Criteria
2. (a) Water Production
(i)   average daily production for each month of the quarter;
(ii)  total production during the quarter and a cumulative
total production for the year.
(b) Water Quality
(i)   chlorine residual leaving treatment plant.  Daily/hourly
frequency;
(ii)  chlorine residual in the distribution area.  Sampling
pattern and frequency in accordance with WHO recommendations.
(c) Water Connections
(i)   number of new connections for the quarter;
(ii)  cumulative total connections at end of quarter.
(d) Standpipes
(i)   number of new standpipes for the quarter;
(ii)  cumulative total number of standpipes at end of quarter.



-93-                       ANNEX 30
Page 2 of 3 pages
(e) Leaks
(i)   number of major leaks investigated for repair during
quarter and to end of quarter since beginning of
repair program;
(ii)  number of major leaks repaired during quarter and to
end of quarter since beginning of repair program.
(f) Sewer Connections
(i)   number of new connections for the quarter;
(ii)  cumulative total connections at end of quarter.
(g) Low-cost Sanitation
(i)   number of individual units installed for the quarter,
and cumulative total;
(ii)  number of seats installed in communal facilities,
for the quarter, and cumulative total.
Staffing
3.      The number of permanent employees engaged in sector activities at
end of quarter detailed as follows:
(a) headquarters (top management, engineers, accountants and others);
(b) operational districts (management, engineers, accountants,
operation and maintenance, metering and collection and others).
Financial Indicators
4.  (a) rate of return;
(b) operating ratio;
(c) debt service coverage through internal generation;
(d) current ratio;
(e) debt equity ratio;
(f) accounts receivable relationship to annual revenues.



ANNEX 30
Page 3 of 3 pages
-94-
5.      The following indicators relating to population and service level will
be monitored on a yearly basis:
(a) population in urban areas;
(b) population in rural areas;
(c) total population served by private water connections in both urban and
rural areas;
(d) total population served by standpipes in both urban and rural areas;
(e) total population served by sewerage systems in urban areas.



ANNEX 31
-95-
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. SECTOR REPORTS
1. WHO/IBRD Cooperative Program - Water Supply and Sanitation Sector
Memorandum - State of Gujarat, India. November, 1979.
B.  PROJECT RELATED REPORTS BY OTHERS
Engineering
1. Feasibility Reports - Water Supply: Anand, Nadiad, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar,
Godhra, Rural Regional, Rural Individual (Kirloskar Consultants, Ltd.)
2. Feasibility Reports - Sewerage: Anand, Nadiad, Savarkundla
(Kirloskar Consultants, Ltd.)
Ahmedabad M.C. (Tata Consulting Engineers)
Rajkot M.C. (Paramount Pollution Control, Ltd.)
3. Master Plan Report - Low Cost Waterseal Latrine Programme 15 Towns Gujarat
State (UNDP Global Project).
Organization, Management, and Finance
1. Socio-Economic and Tariff Study GWSSB Project (ORG)
2. Manual Commercial Accounting System - GWSSB (Kirloskar Consultants)
3. Manual Commercial Accounting System - Ahmedabad M.C. (Kirloskar Consultants)
4. Manual Commercial Accounting System - Rajkot M.C. (Kirloskar Consultants)
5. Manual Commercial Accounting System - Municipal Councils
C. OTHER DOCUMENTS
1. Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act - 1949
2. Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board Act - 1978
3. Compiled Project Data and Working Papers of Appraisal Team
4. TOR Study of Training Needs - GWSSB



25 '                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDIA                                      25'-
4 ,?                                                          GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY
k.                            X  ,                                                          AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
P  A   K   I  S   T  A   N                                                     Lb..-                                                                                       LOCATION OF PROPOSED
_jq i                                                   n , _.r a o WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE SCHEMES
- . &,  L    --   8   -   1   t   )   _   \. _.,g, -jr                                        REGIONAL RURAL WATEH SIJPPLY SCHEME AREAS (RRWI
0   \   \  -  -  1   <9LODAk1-PALANPUR                               INDIVIDUAL RURAL WATER SUPPLY SCHEME AREAS
SI   URBAN WATER SUPPLY SCHEMES
.9                                         ...  ~~~~~~~~~~~URBAN SEWERAGE SCHEMES
[AUNt X   \                            RADHAPURO      _                                            (                                       A    LOW COST SANITATION SCHEMES
f   z   I AKI IPA I X   | [IANNI    S  -      Z' ,                   8   \                )                                       @   STATE CAPITAI.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SATECAPTAI
[ACLIPAI                                                    R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARJ                   HIMATNAGAR~
... -MAH NA    DISTRICT CENTERS
/,   \      \       \                                    6                \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~MARHESANA  WO0  
..  W'    &.  a  \  ) '  V t  <    V7/PLE  aPRASTIJ  -        ._0   OTHER TOWNS
..  ,   \y   SBHUI   \/1;\-n.~                                                                                                                    O >  /   X   A,     _  _  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
P--,^MNDI _ .-       D  ANAH  D N GAR "  /                                            STATE /NION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
.   ?.~  P  ,-.        f s                 J           ,AMSIINAGAR                              ,- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                                    , '<    A  <,
AMANDVI             D. /                        HRANGADSHRA             p      ARMH      U-I-   RISERS
;OIr                         P                          I ' 1 ORAJI     BHAVNAGAR             /                              ) JRANNOtKUTCH
(                                                       ,R\X\ t / ~N AN                        MADHrA
2              ,          \\ JAMNAGAR
RAJKU \Y                                 [A \                                       L                       PRA DESH-A
(s        /                SASw  %   _,   ,  YODARA'
s >                     . X rj                   -~                       -<         /            -  S,                    t          
(4         DEORAJ10%                                BHAVNAGAR                BRARUCRH
AM RE Li
JUNAGADH  K                                                       'Io
vs~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.                                      xOhe pdese h dogt vrbs satce  h eOdalrddddddjm0
\.        .R         S~~~OAVERKUNSLA                                      (P
K                         '.            P'~~~~~~~~~~~URAY,j
-~~~  ~ ~ ET~~~NGROL N.    ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ t<p ~~VYARAD
V/UleDes                                      VALUAS/ ddfSU rpen rhd I.d.ldb   d    lVALd'AD   A/tWA  5
(OOR,EDAMAPH0RDIUJMAN                                      1                                                                I
(PO,OA A DANDAV.Dd  0)                                                            U          4U          BR         120
L                                                 K-LOMETERS
2G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~            ~           ~            ~           ~          ~              V~~~~~~~~A, bA -A
I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4I






To G-tndh-ag-r
This map has b-ee prepared by the
Wortd=Bnkostrff etcsuslvfor ,,i                                                                                                                      INDIA
the con-e-ence of the readers of         o                     >A           -L
the report to which itic5ottachod                              (.3       \ v 
The del-oorioatio used and the
holodarel -hewsd so thi mopfh-                                                                                                 GUJARAT  WATER  SUPPLY
WoHd Borih arId its affiates.  av         \
-y,ap -dyors-edo-meot                                                                                                        AND   SEWERAGE  PROJECT
or s-cept-nce of such bound-nes  \,>                               zS<SE                                                                         ER       G
)Ahmedabad  Municipal Corporation Sewerage Project
Proposed Works
T. Dobhodr
-          . O dr  ~       :- Proposed Trunk Sewers
|th    Krbervogr-h na.              Proposed Terminal Sewage Pumping Stations
Proposed Sewage Treatment Plant Sites
/  Existing Terminal Sewage Pumping Stations
m  / / /    Pc/   Existing Sewage Treatment Plant Sites
Roads
J        -t--------4-  Railroads
Municipal Area
Wo t\  0   ((  y) \                                                                  Walled C ty Limits
City                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~City Limits
To Bovla        X          P           /g  ~~~~~~~~~~                         ~ ~~~~~~Jamaip ur                                                         A   0    
\  ><  2/ / Neww Suburb                           8PAKISTAN '-.
Rajasthan
Manir>agar                                      i
To 5arkhey  ~~~  X     4/4X0N               ew  8ehrampura                                                          l\<                                          a at         '          ) 
K~~~~~  ara sn                                                                 0Madhya
Vasno                                                                                                     -                                                   A '                                Pradesh
sea                      s      -
0          VASNA                                                                                                             O          t        2        3           2                                         2
KILOMETERS   _                                         -- -   Satote woiesd i       Maharashtra
MILES  O               1              2                t           o\                         s
2-,                                                                                                                                                                                700                               -






IBRD 15999
OCTr6EI'El0
INDIA
GUJARAT WATER SUPPLY
AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Raikot Municipal Corporation  Sewerage Project
Pr-oposed Works
Pro ecs Area B- oo-e
-- Prose  Sewers
Propo/-d T-r-r So-.
Pl,mP,ng stor,ors
J                                                                                               F'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rposd Sewoge Tretmet
Plont Ss
A-, cipa Area
\ I f >, \ , , ,, / \ (/ -  C ty _I                                                          r                               ts
70~~~~~~~2
P    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,4   1 U  ,t     1    . T  N   
\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&bn o,wgs ,ses' &5'., '                                            5,. t  5..  osrO)
/7                     / O              F                 t(:<                    AS'- -/  '.---
_. . \ t_ n1 .. 5> a ors a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
70                 0c-F9\                                             <I     



