O CFCA  L    CREDIT NUMBER 1280 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1280 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      w), 1982, between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Gujarat Agreement) between the Association and the
State of Gujarat, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Gujarat), Gujarat has agreed to undertake certain obligations in
respect of the Project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the GWSSB Project Agreement) between the Association and
the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Board (hereinafter called
GWSSB), GWSSB has agreed to carry out Parts A      to G of the
Project and to undertake certain other obligations in respect of
the Project;
(D) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the AMC Project Agreement) between the Association and the
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (hereinafter called AMC), AMC
has agreed to carry out Part H of the Project and to undertake
certain other obligations in respect of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in the Gujarat
Agreement, in the GWSSB Project Agreement and in the AMC Project
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with


﻿- 2 -
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Gujarat" means the State of Gujarat, a State of India
or any successor thereof;
(b)  "Gujarat Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Gujarat, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Gujarat Agreement;
(c)  "Act" means the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Act,
1978, as amended, of Gujarat;
(d)  "Corporation Act" means the Bombay Municipal Corpora-
tion Act, 1949, as adopted and amended by Gujarat;
(e) "GWSSB" means the Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage
Board, established under the Act;
(f)  "AMC" means the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation estab-
lished under the Corporation Act;
(g)  "GWSSB Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and GWSSB of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the GWSSB Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to such agreement;
(h) "AMC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AMC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the AMC Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
such Agreement;
(i)  "Financial Arrangements" means the arrangements under
which Gujarat shall make available the proceeds of the Credit to
GWSSB and AMC pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) and (c) of the Gujarat
Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be
entered into between GWSSB and each of the Project Towns pursuant
to Section 2.02 (a) of the GWSSB Project Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and all agreements
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(k)  "Project Towns" means the municipal corporations of
Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar established under the Corporation
Act and the municipalities of Anand, Godhra, Nadiad, and
Savarkundla established under the Gujarat Municipalities Act,
1963, of Gujarat;
(1)  "Problem Village" means a village without an assured
safe water supply source within a distance of 1.6 kilometers from
said village;
(m) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower; and
(n)  "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year
commencing April 1 and ending March 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to sixty-three million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 63,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the GWSSB
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment c:hare shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   slall  reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind :mpose  by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in th, currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service and commitment charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January
1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 1993, and ending July 1, 2032,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment   thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause Gujarat to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Gujarat Agreement, all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Gujarat to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall malke the proceeds of the Credit
available to Gujarat in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Gujarat shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Gujarat Agreement;
(b) GWSSB shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the GWSSB Project Agreement;
(c) AMC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the AMC Project Agreement;
(d) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
Gujarat, GWSSB or AMC will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Gujarat Agreement, the GWSSB Project Agree-
ment or the AMC Project Agreement;
(e) The Act or the Corporation Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of GWSSB or AMC to perform any


﻿-6-
of their respective obligations under the GWSSB Project Agreement
or the AMC Project Agreement; and
(f) Gujarat or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GWSSB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Gujarat Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Gujarat, and is legally binding upon Gujarat in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the GWSSB Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by GWSSB, and is legally binding upon
GWSSB in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the AMC Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by AMC, and is legally binding upon AMC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date               2b, \&WV5     is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-7 -I
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              28,500,000
materials
(a) procured by                            100% of foreign
international                         expenditures and
competitive                           100% of local
bidding                               expenditures
(ex-factory)
(b) procured by                            40%
methods other
than inter-
national
competitive
bidding
(2) Civil works                26,600,000       40%
(3) Consultants' ser-           3,100,000       100%
vices, training
and hydrogeological
investigations
(4) Loans under Part            2,130,000       Amounts disbursed
G of the Project
(5) Unallocated                 3,470,000
TOTAL        63,800,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or cn the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that    withdrawals in respect of Category
(3) may be made in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $2,350,000 on account of payments made for expenditures
on consultants' services before that date but after August 15,
1981 and in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$150,000 on account of payments made for expenditures on
hydrogeological investigations before that date but after
February 1, 1981; and
(b) payments made for expenditures in a sub-project in any
of the Project Towns until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GWSSB and the Project Town concerned has been executed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures


﻿- 11 -
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A.   Urban Water Supply
Development of the water supply services in Anand, Jamnagar,
Bhavnagar, Godhra and Nadiad through, inter alia, construction of
treatment   facilities,   extensions   to   existing   treatment
facilities, construction of tube-wells and extensions of the
existing distribution systems.
Part B.   Urban Sewerage
1.   Construction of a new sewerage system for Rajkot with zonal
lift-stations, a terminal pumping station and a treatment plant.
2.   Extensions to the existing sewerage systems for Nadiad and
Anand and construction of a new sewerage system for S:varkundla.
Part C.   Rural Water Supply
1.   Provision of piped water supplies to about 255 Problem
Villages divided into seven regional groups.
2.   Provision of piped water supplies for about 110 individual
Problem Villages.
Part D.   Low Cost Sanitation
Provision of low-cost sanitation for fifteen selected
middle-sized towns identified in the UNDP Global Project Number
GLO/78/006.
Part E.   Common Services
Construction of stores, workshops and depots, and provision
of vehicles and sanitation equipment for GWSSB.
Part F.   Technical Assistance
1.   Training of staff employed in the water supply and sewerage
sector in Gujarat.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Carrying out of an organizational and manaqement study for
Rajkot's water supply and sewerage sector.
3.   Carrying out of detailed engineering design and construction
supervision for GWSSB and Rajkot.
Part G.   Loans
Carrying out of a program of loans to low-income property
owners for house connections to the sewerage systems to be
constructed under Part B of the Project.
Part H.   AMC Urban Sewerage
1.   Construction of two peripheral trunk sewers, two terminal
pumping stations, and two sewage treatment plants.
2.   Carrying   out   of   detailed   engineering    design,   and
construction supervision for (1) above.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of J
198 Z.
FOR SECRETARY


