GREDIT NUMBER 1280 IN
AMC Project Agreement
(Gujarat Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AMEDABAD MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1280 IN
AMC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    c, 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and AHMEDABAD MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (hereinafter
called AMC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty three million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 63,800,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that AMC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS AMC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AMC shall carry out Part H of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices.
Section 2,02. In order to assist AMC in detailed design for
Part H of the Project, AMC shall employ consultants whose selec-
tion, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of


﻿-2-
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for Part
H of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
GWSSB Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) AMC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by Gujarat against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by AMC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) AMC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05 (a) AMC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction, work and procure-
ment schedules for Part H of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) AMC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part H of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association' s representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites incl,ded in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning Part H of the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon the award by AMC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part H of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between AMC and
the Association, AMC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of Part H of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by AMC and the Association
of their reEpective obligations under the AMC Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) A4C shall enable the Association's representatives    to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment and any relevant records and documents
related to its water supply and sewerage sector.
Section 2.06. (a) AMC shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part H of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) AMC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Part H of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by AC of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AMC
Section 3.01. (a) AMC shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
(b) AMC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property related to its water
supply and sewerage sector, and from time to time, promptly as


﻿needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and commercial prac-
tices.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AMC
shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets required for the efficient operation of
Part H of the Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.02. AMC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice, in respect of
its water supply and sewerage operations.
Section 3.03. AMC shall (a) furnish to the Association, by
June 30, 1983 or such other date as the Association may agree,
the findings of the organization and management study of its
water supply and sewerage sector, and (b) implement such recom-
mendation arising from said study as shall be agreed upon between
AMC and the Association in accordance with a timetable satisfac-
tory to the Association.
Section 3.04. AMC shall by December 31, 1983, or such other
date as the Association shall agree, complete a study of the use
of domestic metering in accordance with terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association as a basis for determining its future
metering policy.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. AMC shall maintain records, and commencing
with fiscal year 1983, separate commercial accounts, adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition
related to its water supply and sewerage operations.
Section 4.02. AMC shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿-5-
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(b) commencing with Fiscal year 1983 furnish to the Asso-
ciation as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of
the financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, and
(c)   furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of AMC and the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, AMC shall:
(a) by April 1, 1983, increase its user charges and
special taxes so as to double by March 31, 1984 the revenues
currently received therefrom;
(b) apply, as appropriate, revenue increase and/or cost
reduction policies so as to ensure that by March 31, 1988, or
such other date as may be agreed between AMC and the Association,
in accordance with a schedule agreed to by the Association, the
cost of operation, including depreciation, and maintenance are
covered by user charges for water supply and special taxes for
sewerage imposed and collected from said users;
(c)  thereafter apply, as appropriate revenue increase and/
or cost reduction policies so as to ensure that, by March 31,
1993 or such other date as may be agreed between GWSSB and the
Association, in accordance with a schedule agreed to by the Asso-
ciation, the cost of operation, maintenance and debt service
excluding depreciation, are covered by user charges for water
supply and special taxes for sewerage imposed and collected from
said users;
(d) until revenues derived from charges to users cover all
service costs including operation, maintenance and debt service,
allocate from other specific revenues, funds to cover its water
supply and sewerage revenue shortfall; and


﻿-6-
(e) based on the findings of the tariff study furnished to
the Association and taking into account its comments, if any,
develop a tariff structure consistent with the objectives of the
foregoing provisions of this section.
Section 4.04. AMC shall improve, in accordance with a sched-
ule satisfactory to the Association, its water supply and sewer-
age billing and collection practices, so as to achieve by March
31, 1986 and thereafter, an aggregate unpaid customer account
balance at fiscal year end, not in excess of 30% of the billings
for such fiscal year.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, AMC shall not, in its water supply and sewerage sector
incur any debt unless the net revenues of AMC for the fiscal year
next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall not be less than 1.3 times the
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt of MC including the debt to be incurred,
For the purpose of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt related to its water
supply and sewerage sector incurred by AMC including debt assumed
or guaranteed by AMC, except debt incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one
year after its incurrence;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any such debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment of such debt.
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred by AMC: (i) under a contract
or loan agreement, on the date the contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt is entered into; and (ii) under a guaran-
tee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such gua-
rantee shall have been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues received
by AMC from water supply and sewerage services, less all oper-
ating expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes or payment
in lieu of taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but before
provision for straight-line depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt;


﻿-7-
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on such debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of ex-
change at which such other currency, at the time such valuation
is made, is obtainable by AMC for the purpose of servicing such
debt, or if such other currency is not so obtainable, at such
rate of exchange as shall be acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of AMC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
AMC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-8-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address                   Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For AMC:
Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation
Sadar Patel Bhavan
Ahmedabad, Gujarat
India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of AMC may be taken or executed by the
Municipal Commissioner or such other person or persons as AMC
shall designate in writing, and AMC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 9 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
AHMEDABAD MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the         --day of           ,
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


