      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



                                                                                                             Report Number : ICRR0020102


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                            Project Name
 P109986                                               SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10)

 Country                                               Practice Area(Lead)
 Senegal                                               Water



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                    Closing Date (Original)                                    Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-46780                                           30-Jun-2015                                                            56,560,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                  Closing Date (Actual)
  16-Feb-2010                                         30-Jun-2015

                                                            IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                 Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           55,000,000.00                                                        0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            54,624,108.05                                                        0.00

  Actual                                                        51,602,305.75                                                        0.00




 Sector(s)
 Water supply(56%):Sanitation(32%):Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood protection(12%)

 Theme(s)
 Rural services and infrastructure(70%):Urban services and housing for the poor(30%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                        ICR Review Coordinator            Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani            ---                                Christopher David Nelson          IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project development objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) and in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD,
    page 6) was:
    "To increase access to sustainable water and sanitation services in selected rural and urban areas.”
    The PAD further adds that the objective was to contribute to the achievement of the water and sanitation Millennium Development Goals
    (MDGs).
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     There were five components.
     Component A. Rural Water Supply. Appraisal estimate US$21.10 million, Actual cost US$22.81 million.This component planned to
     improve access to drinking water in the regions of Saint-Louis and Matam, and the district of Bakel in the Senegal River basin. Sub-
     component activities included: (i) Constructing multi village water supply systems. (ii) Constructing network extensions and water towers.
     (iii) Restoring existing boreholes, electrification of boreholes and installing Piezometers (an instrument placed in boreholes to monitor the
     presence or depth of groundwater. (iv) Rehabilitating pumping stations, existing water towers and boreholes and installing production
     meters in the Northern and Central Zones. (v) Installing production meters, private connections and water meters on community and public
     distribution points. (vi) Preparing feasibility studies and technical assistance for procurement and supervision. (vii) Assisting in establishing
     Association of Water Users (the French acronym - ASUFOR), and (viii) Assisting in preparing new Local Water and Sanitation
     Plans, updating existing plans and executing water resources studies and monitoring.
     Component B. Urban Water Supply. Appraisal estimate US$5.54 million. Actual cost US$5.59 million. This component aimed at
     increasing the connection rate to water services in urban areas. Sub-component activities included: (i)I Installing social connections. (ii)
     Constructing 100 kilometers (kms) of secondary and tertiary water distribution network extensions.
     Component C. Rural Sanitation. Appraisal estimate US$8.80 million. Actual cost US$8.69 million. This component aimed at
     increasing access to water sanitation services to the rural population in the regions of Saint-Louis and Matam and the district of Bakel.
     Sub-component activities included: (i) Constructing household latrines and hand washing facilities. (ii) Constructing school sanitation
     facilities. (iii) Project management support. and, (iv) Hygiene education and providing training to end-users.
     Component D. Urban Sanitation. Appraisal estimate US$6.56 million. Actual cost US$10.08 million. This component aimed at increasing
     access to sewerage and condominial networks (refers to applying simplified sewerage activities based on consultations with end-users
     and agencies). Sub-component activities included: (i) Expanding sewerage networks by 22 kms in the selected peri-urban areas of Dakar.
     (ii) Constructing school sanitation facilities. (iii) Constructing wastewater pumping station and a one km sewer interceptor. (iv) Constructing
     a wastewater plant in the peri urban area of Thiaroye. (v) Works supervision, hygiene education, social market marketing and outreach
     activities, and (vi) Designing studies for the sanitation of Joal.
     Component E. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building. US$5.71 million. Actual cost US$5.59 million. This component
     supported activities associated with ongoing water sector reforms. Subcomponent activities included: (i) Supporting rural water sector
     reforms (including, support for transferring maintenance of motorized boreholes to the private sector and a study on delegating the
     management of water supply systems to private sector. (ii) Institutional support to the urban water sector (including, designing and
     implementing the next batch of reforms, undertaking specific studies and technical audits of the performance contracts of the National
     Sanitation Agency of Senegal (the French Acronym, ONAS) and the National Water Company of Senegal (the French Acronym, SONES)
     and updating the financial model of the urban water sector. (iii) Water resource management and other studies. (iv) Environmental and
     Social Management. (v) Capacity building of the project implementation agencies and project management support.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost: Appraisal estimate US$56.56 million. Actual cost US$52.83 million. There were cost savings associated with component B
     and C activities and these were reallocated Components D and E activities.
     Project Financing: The project was financed by and IDA Grant under the Crisis Response Window to mitigate the impact of the financial
     crisis. Appraisal estimate US$55.00 million. At closure, US$51.64 million was disbursed.
     There was parallel financing for complementary water sector activities in the Water and Sanitation Millennium Program from other
     development partners including, the African Development Bank (AfDB), Belgium, European Union, the European Water Facility, the
     Islamic Development Bank (IDB), Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the Nordic Development Fund, the Saudi Development Fund,
     Spain, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the West
     African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU),
     Borrower Contribution: Counterpart funding through local sources was estimated at US$1.56 million. Actual contribution at closure
     was US$1.19 million.
     Dates. The project was restructured once through a level II restructuring on September 11, 2013. Following this restructuring, there was
     relocation of project activities (the implementation of the Urban Sanitation component in Thiaroye encountered difficulties due to the
     rejection of wastewater treatment facilities by some people in the area and at Government’s request, this activity was cancelled and the
     funds were reallocated to project activities in the cities of Saint-Louis, Louga and Thiers which had a shortage of household sewerage
     connections), reclassification of indicators and addition of a core indicator and reallocation of funding between activities. The project
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



    closed as scheduled on June 3oth, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   At appraisal there were disparities in access to water and sanitation services between rural and urban areas -with only 75 percent and 27.5
   percent of the rural population having access to water and sanitation services as compared to 98 percent and 63 percent respectively in urban
   areas. The project development objective were highly relevant to the Government’s three-pronged strategy which included, developing
   equitable access program in rural areas which had been tested on a large scale in urban areas, reforming the maintenance and management
   of rural facilities and developing a comprehensive strategy and long term planning to reach the Millennium Development Program (MDP). The
   Water and Sanitation Millennium Program (the French acronym, PEPAM) which was adopted by the Government in July 2005 was the
   instrument through which the Government intended to achieve the MDG’s goal of increasing access to water and sanitation services to 82
   percent and 63 percent in rural areas and to 100 percent and 63 percent in urban areas by 2015.
   The project development objective was consistent with the Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRSP) formulated in 2006. The
   second pillar of the PRSP identified the need for improving access to basic social services for the strategic objectives of reducing poverty and
   improving the health of the population. The project development objective was also fully aligned with the current five-year Priority Action Plan
   formulated in the Emerging Senegal Plan (ESP) for the 2014-2018 period. The second focus area of this plan aimed at meeting basic needs
   such as improving access to water and sanitation services.
   The project development objective continues to be relevant to the Bank strategy for Senegal. At appraisal, the Country Assistance Strategy
   (CAS) for the 2007-2010 period supported the pillars of the PRSP and emphasized the need for addressing disparities in provision of
   infrastructure between urban and rural areas. The current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the 2013-2017 period highlighted the need
   for improving access to basic services, including water and sanitation services.




   Rating
   High


b. Relevance of Design

   The project included both investments in water and sanitation works and activities aimed at institutional strengthening and capacity building of
   the pertinent state agencies. The statement of the project development objective and the results framework was clear and the causal links
   between project activities, their outputs and outcomes were logical. The intended outcomes were clear. While the outputs of component A and
   B activities (such constructing multi village supply systems, network extensions, rehabilitating pumping stations and assistance for establishing
   Association of Water Users and preparing new local and sanitation plans and increasing the connection urban areas) can be expected to
   contribute to increasing access to water services in rural and urban areas, outputs of Component C and D activities (such as constructing
   household latrines, hand washing facilities, hygiene training and training to end users in rural areas and expanding sewerage networks,
   wastewater pumping and school sanitation facilities in the peri-urban areas of Dakar), can be expected to increase access to sanitation
   facilities. This in conjunction with the institutional strengthening and capacity building of the relevant agencies can be expected to contribute to
   sustainability of water and sanitation services. These activities will contribute to realizing the Millennium Development Goals of increasing
   coverage of these services in the urban and rural areas. At preparation, implementation arrangements were designed to accommodate the
   capacities of the various implementing agencies.




   Rating
   Substantial




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)


PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective

     To increase access to sustainable water services in selected rural and urban areas.

    Rationale

    Outputs.
    The following activities pertaining to rural water supply were completed at project closure.

        • 44 new rural water supply systems (including 16 new boreholes,13 water treatment plants, 46 water towers and 629 km of distribution
        networks), were constructed. This exceeded the target of of 29 systems (including 10 boreholes, 19 water treatment plants, 29 water
        towers and 275 km of distribution networks).
        • 14 piped water networks were extended as compared to the target of 15.
        • 10,536 household connections were constructed as compared to the target of 10,000 household connections. 3,000 water meters for
        community connections were installed as per the target.
        • 100 pumping stations were upgraded as targeted, 401 production meters were installed as compared to the target of 200 and 60
        groundwater pumping systems were rehabilitated as targeted.
        • 75.2% of the rural population in project areas had access to piped water supply at project closure. This exceeded the target of
        57%. About 97% of the rural population in the Northern Zone had access to water supply at project closure. This exceeded the target
        of 87.5%.
        • 127 Association of water users in charge of operating rural water systems were established.
        • Assistance for transfer of maintenance in the Central Zone, for preparing bidding documents for the delegation of management of
        water services and support for establishing a Rural Bores Agency for rural sector reform was provided as targeted. In January 2014,
        Rural Bores Agency (French acronym, OFOR) was set up with private sector participation for maintaining two regional rural water
        systems and maintaining 590 motorized boreholes.
        • Water resource and preparation studies and inventory of rural motorized boreholes was completed as targeted. The business plan
        was completed and two private operators were selected for the Central Zone.


    The following activities pertaining to urban water supply were completed at project closure.

        • 10 boreholes were replaced as targeted, 19 boreholes were rehabilitated as compared to the target of 20, 20 boreholes were
        connected to the electrical grid and five piezometers were constructed as targeted.
        • 145 distribution networks were expanded as compared to the target of 100 km and 20,616 social connections were constructed as
        compared to the target of 19,100.
        • About 99% of the population of Dakar had access to piped water through private connections. This exceeded the target of 92%.
        • About 79.2% of the population in the peri-urban areas had access to piped water through private connections. This exceeded the
        target of 75.8%.
        • 20,616 new household water connections were constructed as compared to the target of 19,100.


    Outcomes.

        • The number of people who had access to improved water sources in rural areas at project closure was 172,375 .This exceeded the
        target of 130,000.
        • The number of people who had access to improved water sources in urban areas was 206,160. This exceeded the target of 191,000.
        • The total number of people who benefited from improved water services in urban areas (through private connections) and rural areas
        was 378,535. This exceeded the original and revised target of 321,000.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)




    Rating
    High

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective

     To increase access to sustainable sanitation services to selected rural and urban areas

    Rationale
    Outputs.
    The following activities pertaining to rural sanitation was completed at project closure.

        •   18,811 latrines were constructed as compared to the target of 17,500.
        •   Latrine blocks were constructed in 72 schools as targeted.
        •   About 38.7 percent of the rural population in the project areas had access to sanitation as compared to the target of 38.5 percent.
        •   140 water service providers were supported by the project as compared to the target of 127.


    The following activities were completed pertaining to urban sanitation at project closure.

        • Sewerage networks were expanded by 20 km as targeted, 6,922 sewerage connections were constructed as compared to the target
        of 6,700, a sewage pumping station was constructed and an interceptor sewer was supplied, as envisaged at appraisal.
        • About 83% of the population in Dakar had access to sanitation services in Dakar at project closure as targeted.
        • Assistance was provided for the technical audit of performance contracts to urban and sanitation reform was provided as targeted.
        • A new institutional framework for maintaining the PPP option for the urban water and sanitation sector was completed as targeted.


    Outcomes.

        • The number of people who had access to improved sanitation services in rural areas was 84,450. This exceeded the target of
        79,000.
        • The number of people with access to improved sanitation services in urban areas was 188,110 as compared to the target of 175,000.
        • 7.200 students in schools had access to sanitation facilities at project closure as compared to the target of 7,000.
        • The number of beneficiaries who benefited from improved sanitation services in urban and rural areas was 272,560 at project
        closure. This exceeded the original and revised targets of 254,000.


    As indicated in section 2d, this project was part of a program which included parallel financing from other donors. Following the
    restructuring of the project, the results framework was adequately addressed through reclassification of access rate to the intermediate
    outcome level and other core indicators were added. The project highly contributed to increasing access to sustainable water and
    sanitation services in the selected rural and urban areas of Senegal, given that the project exceeded the targets for virtually all designated
    indicators.


    Rating
    High



   5. Efficiency

    Cost Benefit Analysis, A cost-benefit analysis of the rural and urban water components (which represented about 56 percent of the total
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



 project cost) was conducted using the same methodology, both at appraisal and at closure. The benefits were assumed to come from the
 incremental sales of water, consumer surplus accruing to consumers who previously obtained water from vendors and standpipes, benefits
 associated with cost savings on energy, maintenance and replacement costs. Costs included investment, incremental operating
 and renewal costs. At closure, the Net present value (NPV) with a 10 percent discount rate was US$0.9 million and the ex post Economic
 Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was 10.8 percent, as compared to the NPV of US$1.1 million and EIRR of 10.6 percent at appraisal.
 Cost Effectiveness Analysis: The cost effectiveness analysis was conducted for the sanitation components of the project which represented
 about 20 percent of the total project cost. The methodology entailed comparing the investment cost per capita of the sewerage
 option (providing social connections in urban centers) used in this project, with alternative options such as, condominial solutions (application
 of simplified sewage networks based on consultations with end-users and agencies) and on-site solutions, that could deliver similar
 environmental benefits in terms of wastewater and excreta. The annualized investment cost per capita associated with providing social
 connection programs was roughly around US$11.80 in Dakar and US$11.49 in other urban centers, as compared to US$13.67 for the
 Condominial solution and US$11.41 for on-site solution. In addition, sewerage connections enabled beneficiary households to save about
 US$27 per year on the cost of emptying conventional latrines. The unit cost of the household latrines constructed in the rural areas (US$46
 per capita) was comparable to other projects under the Water and Sanitation Millennium Program in Senegal. The ICR (page 12) reports that
 benchmarking of the unit costs of the social connection program both for water and sanitation were the lowest in the sub region.
 Administrative efficiencies: There were no cost overruns and the project closed as scheduled.




Efficiency Rating
High


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             47.00
 Appraisal                                                                10.80
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             56.00
 ICR Estimate                                                             10.60
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objective was rated as High and Design was Substantial. Efficacy of the objective was rated as High. The targets were exceeded
in virtually every case and there is evidence that the project highly contributed to increasing access to sustainable water and sanitation services
in the selected urban and rural areas of Senegal. Efficiency is rated as High. The sewage option provided was cost effective as compared to
other options. There were no cost overruns and the project closed as per schedule.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Highly Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Financial Risk: Although both the Senegalese Water Utility (SdE) and the National Sanitation Agency of Senegal (ONAS) that are responsible
for water and sanitation services in Urban areas had established a satisfactory performance track record, rural water facilities are either operated
by Association of Water Users or are being transferred progressively to private operators, that have no record of operating performance.
However, given that operating condition of rural systems are being monitored regularly, the risk to development outcome regarding the
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



sustainability of the rural systems is rated as Modest.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project was based on lessons from prior Bank-financed water and sanitation projects in Senegal (Water Sector Project and Long Term
     Water Sector Project). The design of the project was tailored to the capacities of the various executing agencies, The project coordination unit
     of a prior Bank financed Project, which was familiar with the Bank's fiduciary procedures and processes was retained for this project. Several
     project-specific risks were identified at appraisal and risk mitigation measures were incorporated. The overall project risk was rated as
     Moderate. Appropriate measures were adopted during project preparation for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E discussed in section 10) and
     for compliance with safeguards and fiduciary management (discussed in section 11).
     At preparation, the preparation team underestimated the risk associated with the Government’s commitment to the reform process in the
     water sector. Although at preparation, it was envisaged that the Senegalese Water Utility would prepare for a full concession contract for
     the urban water and sanitation services, the then President’s objection to the transfer of the maintenance of motorized boreholes to a single
     private operator in the Central Province without prior consultations, stalled the reform process. This was however rectified with the election of
     a new President.



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     There were a total of 11 supervision missions over five years of implementation. The regular timing of supervision missions helped in facilitating
     sector dialogue. The location of the Task Team Leader in a neighboring country and a Water and Sanitation Specialist and fiduciary and
     safeguards specialists in Dakar aided in detailed assessments and recommendations during implementation. The team was proactive and
     showed flexibility by agreeing to allocate the cost savings to finance network extensions and this increased access to water and sanitation
     services in the project areas. The team effectively addressed the cost overrun problem during implementation by proactively restructuring and
     reallocating funds between project components



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     Although the Government’s commitment to sector reforms was strong during preparation, at the early stage of implementation, the highest
     level of Government conveyed a vision of the sector reforms that was substantially different from the consensus achieved at the ministerial
     level and took steps to implement it without consultations with the team. However, this was rectified with a new government after 2012
     which enabled the continuation of the reform process.



     Government Performance Rating
     Satisfactory
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                   Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



b. Implementing Agency Performance
   There were three implementing agencies: The Ministry in Charge of Water and Sanitation was in charge of coordinating the Water and
   Sanitation Program with the Directorate of Rural Water, Directorate of Maintenance and the Directorate of Sanitation and the other
   agencies were the National Sanitation Agency of Senegal (ONAS) and the National Water Company of Senegal (SONES).
   The project coordination unit effectively carried out its monitoring responsibilities and in complying with the fiduciary and safeguards
   issues. The National Sanitation agency and the National Water Company completed the activities in a timely fashion.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The key outcome indicators to monitor access to water services and sanitation services – access rate to piped water and sanitation services in
   rural areas and access rate to piped water through private connections in urban areas and sanitation services in Dakar – were appropriate.
   Likewise, the monitoring of sustainability of access through the rate of availability of rural water supply services in the Northern Zone of Senegal
   was appropriate.
   The M&E framework was devised jointly devised jointly by the Government and its external partners. The Bank had to go along with this
   approach despite the difficulty of attribution to individual partners of the access rate indicators.




b. M&E Implementation
   A core indicator – the number of latrines constructed under the project –during implementation. Some key outcome and intermediate were
   modified to reflect the Bank’s shift to core indicators. The indicators included the number of people who had access to water and sanitation
   services and the number of direct project beneficiaries at closure.
   The detailed information on access to water supply and sanitation services at the national and subnational levels provided by the Water and
   Sanitation Services Program through a website was used for the for the joint annual reviews of the program conducted by the Government
   with external partners of the sector. The project also helped in developing a pilot database of rural facilities accessible at the local level with
   cellphones to monitor and update the actual state and availability of rural water systems.




c. M&E Utilization
   The M&E was used for assessing progress towards the project development outcomes. The project also helped in setting up a real time
   monitoring systems of the availability and performances of rural water system for monitoring ongoing rural operational conditions.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a Category B project. Three safeguard policies were triggered: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01).
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). Project on International waters (OP/BP/GP 7.50), since some additional water required by the
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



   project was to be from the Senegal river.
   At appraisal, an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), providing environmental guidelines and a screening
   mechanism for ensuring that activities were carried out in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner and a Resettlement Policy
   Framework (RPF) outlining the procedures to be followed in the event of land acquisition, impact on assets and/or loss of livelihoods, was
   prepared and publicly disclosed, as required. At appraisal, as per OP/BP/GP 7.50 guidelines which required clearance from riparian
   states, the implementing agency officially informed and got the clearance from the Senegal River Organization - the regional institution in
   charge of the Senegal river's water management - as required. The ICR (page 8) reports that the overall safeguard compliance was
   deemed to be satisfactory during the project implementation phase.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management and Procurement. An assessment of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) conducted at appraisal concluded that
   PCU’s administrative, accounting and financial procedures were Satisfactory and the PCU had adequate staff (PAD, page 13). Fiduciary
   compliance was monitored by Bank specialists based in Dakar. Effective procurement practices enabled the Bank to disburse the entire
   procurement amount for the project. The ICR (page 9) reports that there was compliance with procurement and financial (reporting and audit
   covenants) during project implementation.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Highly Satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory                ---
                                                                                                               There is modest risk given that
                                                                                                               rural water facilities are either
                                                                                                               operated by Association of Water
Risk to Development Outcome               Negligible                        Modest
                                                                                                               users or transferred to private
                                                                                                               operators with limited operational
                                                                                                               experience.
Bank Performance                          Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                       ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        SN-Water and Sanitation SIL (FY10) (P109986)



The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.
(1) The project confirmed the relevance and efficacy of social connection programs as the best way of achieving the Water and Sanitation
Millennium Development Goals. The results achieved in the Dakar area regarding urban water supply showed that universal access to safe
water through households connections is a feasible goal in Sub-Saharan Africa.
(2) It is preferable to package rural waterworks contracts on a geographical basis rather than on a technical basis. Having a single contractor
working on all activities in a givern area rather than have to coordinate several specialized contractors.




14. Assessment Recommended?

Yes


Please explain

Given that a Rural Water Asset Holding Company for contracting private operators for the work in rural areas was an innovative approach in
the region, a further assessment would be useful for measuring the success of this approach.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and well-written and provides a candid description of the problems encountered during implementation.
The ICR was oriented to produce results and internally consistent and the lessons articulated were sound. The methodology provides little
details on the methodology followed in measuring the outcomes.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
