                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2075



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-21517, TF-52183)



                                         ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                      HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                    FOR THE

IMPLEMENTATION OF ECONOMIC REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                   June 27, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development
Middle East and North Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2012)

                     Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
                             JD 1.00 = US$ 1.41
                           US$ 1.00 = JD 0.709 JD

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACT     Aqaba Container Terminal
AMPCO   Agricultural Marketing and Processing Company
APC     Arab Potash Company
ARC     Aqaba Railways Company
ASE     Amman Stock Exchange
BOT     Build-Operate-Transfer
CEGCO   Central Electric Generating Company
EDCO    Electricity Distribution Company
EPC     Executive Privatization Commission
ERC     Electric Regulatory Commission
FT      France Telecom
GCC     Gulf Cooperation Council
GOJ     Government of Jordan
IDECO   Irbid District Electricity Company
IRC     Insurance Regulatory Commission
ITC     Information Technology Communications
JEPCO   Jordan Electric Power Company
JPMC    Jordan Phosphate Mines Company
JTC     Jordan Telecommunications Company
MENA    Middle East and North Africa
MOPIC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
NEPCO   National Electric Power Company
OECD    Organization for Economic cooperation and Development
PIU     Program Implementation Unit
PPP     Public-Private Partnership
PTRC    Public Transport Regulatory Commission
QAIA    Queen Alia International Airport
RJ      Royal Jordanian Airlines
ROE     Returns on Equity
SOEs    State-owned Enterprises
SSCIU   Social Security Corporation Investment Unit
USAID   United States Agency for International Development


                        Vice President: Inger Andersen
                      Country Director: Hedi Larbi
                       Sector Manager: Simon C. Bell
                 Program Team Leader: William Mako
                     ICR Team Leader: William Mako
                                     JORDAN
            Implementation of Economic Reform and Development Program



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 19
  Annex 1. Program Costs and Financing ....................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component (selected) ................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 24
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR ........................................................................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 34
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Implementation of
Country:               Jordan                  Project Name:             Economic Reform and
                                                                         Development Program
Project ID:            P053834                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-21517,TF-52183
ICR Date:              06/27/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:    TAL                     Grantee:                  PLANNING AND
                                                                         INTERNATIONAL
Original Total
                       USD 23.71M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 22.55M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 23.22M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Executive Privatization Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 USAID

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/30/1997   Effectiveness:                              02/15/1998
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):                           10/14/2010
Approval:              02/15/1998   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                   10/14/2006       12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General finance sector                                                10                  10
General industry and trade sector                                     90                  90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                                  33                  10
Regulation and competition policy                                     33                  33
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                34                  57

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Kemal Dervis
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                           Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:            Simon C. Bell                        Deane N. Jordan
Project Team Leader:       William Peter Mako                   Christian E. Petersen
ICR Team Leader:           William Peter Mako
ICR Primary Author:        William Peter Mako


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
As this was a trust fund grant approved in FY98, there was no Program Appraisal
Document.

According to a Cooperative Agreement (dated February 10, 1998) between USAID and
the World Bank ("Bank"), the grant was intended to support reform and development of
Jordan's economy, including through further trade facilitation and export development,
privatization, financial sector reform, and streamlining of the regulatory environment.
The Cooperative Agreement did not specify key indicators.

The development objectives, as per the Grant Agreement of TF021517, dated February
15, 1998, between the Bank and the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation,
the Recipient, are "Implementation of Annual Programs to support increased competition,
outward-oriented growth, a modern, efficient and well-regulated financial sector, best-
practice business laws, and privatization, including: (i) trade liberalization and export
development; and (ii) financial sector and legal reform."

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The World Bank, USAID, and GOJ rapidly agreed on the need to narrow the scope of the
Program. In a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU dated August 16, 1999) among the
GOJ Ministry of Planning (subsequently superseded by the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation), the implementing agency – the Executive Privatization Unit
(EPU) (subsequently superseded by the Executive Privatization Commission), USAID,
and World Bank, the parties agreed to complete initial assistance on insurance and
securities regulation, but that the Program should otherwise focus on privatization. A
Revision to the Cooperative Agreement (dated June 13, 2000) specified that the Program
would focus on privatization and would exclude post-privatization support. More
specifically, the Revision indicated that the Program should focus on privatizations in
telecommunications, postal services, airline, buses, rail, seaport, electricity, petroleum
refining/distribution, water, and grain silos. The Revision also provided for institutional
strengthening of the EPU and development of a public communications program.

 At the request of MOPIC, and following discussions with the Bank and USAID, the
objectives of the program were amended to include financing for public sector reform.
The revised objectives read as "Implementation of Annual Programs to support
privatization, private sector investment and public sector reform."

 The development objectives in the Letter Agreement for the additional grant of US$10
million (TF052183), dated May 27, 2005, are to: "(a) strengthen the investment climate,
leading to new investment and job creation; and (b) improve effectiveness and efficiency
of the delivery of public services, and creation of fiscal space. The activities for which
the Grant is given are the implementation of annual programs to support privatization,
private sector investment and public sector reform."

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Privatization of existing state-owned enterprises
Value           Jordan's infrastructure                      Revision         In addition to other
quantitative or sectors were almost 100% N/A                 included         privatizations
Qualitative)    state-owned.                                 postal, airline, (telecoms, mining)
                                                              buses, rail,    completed airline,
                                                              seaport,        buses, seaport, and
                                                              electricity,    electricity
                                                              petroleum,      privatizations and
                                                              water and       PPPs
                                                              grain
Date achieved 12/01/1997                    05/01/2003        06/30/2008      12/31/2008
Comments        Attempt to privatize postal was unrealistic. Grain derailed due to food security
(incl. %        concerns. Petroleum refining privatization effort is ongoing. Expect ultimately
achievement) to see 80 percent of targets privatized with Program support.
Indicator 2 : Legal and regulatory reform
                                                                              Achieved:
                                                                              independent
                                                                              regulators
Value
                No independent                                                established for
quantitative or                             N/A               N/A
                regulatory authorities                                        insurance,
Qualitative)
                                                                              electricity sector,
                                                                              and land
                                                                              transportation
Date achieved 02/15/1998                    05/01/2003        05/01/2003      12/31/2003
Comments
                Thus far, 75 percent of attempts succeeded. We still expect GOJ will eventually
(incl. %
                establish a regulatory framework for petroleum refining/distribution.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : New investment
                                                                              Privatized firms
                                                                              that had received
                                                                              Program support
                                                                              invested an
                                                                              additional
                                                                              US$1.015 billion to
Value                                                                         expand and
quantitative or N/A                         N/A               N/A             modernize assets.
Qualitative)                                                                  The airport
                                                                              rehabilitation and
                                                                              expansion has
                                                                              attracted an
                                                                              additional US$750
                                                                              million of
                                                                              financing.
Date achieved 02/15/1998                    05/01/2003        05/01/2003      12/31/2007
Comments
                Additional investment in privatized firms represented 11.4 percent of total FDI
(incl. %
                for 2000 – 2007.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Job creation
                                                                              While privatization
Value                                                                         led to a net loss of
quantitative or N/A                         N/A               N/A             448 jobs (2%) in
Qualitative)                                                                  SOEs privatized
                                                                              with program
                                                                                 support, GOJ
                                                                                 estimates that
                                                                                 reforms led to an
                                                                                 additional 25,000
                                                                                 jobs just at the
                                                                                 telecom sector
                                                                                 (mobile phone
                                                                                 firms and IT-
                                                                                 enabled
                                                                                 businesses).
Date achieved     02/15/1998                 05/01/2003         05/01/2003       12/31/2008
Comments          In cases where labor reductions at SOEs were necessary, the GOJ relied on early
(incl. %          retirement packages with lump sum payments and payment of health and other
achievement)      benefit premiums until retirement.
Indicator 5 :     Improved effectiveness and efficiency of public service delivery.
                                                                                 Huge gains in
                                                                                 efficiency and
                                                                                 reliability of fixed
                  Long delays, poor service                                      line telephone.
Value
                  in fixed-line telephone.                                       Great gains in
quantitative or                              N/A                N/A
                  Unacceptable delays at                                         efficiency at Aqaba
Qualitative)
                  Aqaba Port.                                                    Container
                                                                                 Terminal. More
                                                                                 reliable electricity
                                                                                 supply.
Date achieved     02/15/1998                 05/01/2003         05/01/2003       12/31/2007
Comments          Rehabilitation of Queen Alia International Airport terminal and construction of
(incl. %          new terminal will provide substantial additional gains in efficiency and quality of
achievement)      air transport services.
Indicator 6 :     Creation of fiscal space.
Value                                                                            Total debt to GDP
                  Total debt to GDP in
quantitative or                              N/A                N/A              in 2008 was 60
                  1997 was 115 percent.
Qualitative)                                                                     percent.
Date achieved     02/15/1998                 05/01/2003         05/01/2003       03/30/2008
                  In 2008, GOJ concluded an agreement to buy back US$2.4 billion of Paris Club
Comments
                  debt (at an 11 % discount) using US$1.9 billion of privatization proceeds (from a
(incl. %
                  total of US2.3 B from privatizations supported by the Program) and additional
achievement)
                  support from GCC.
Indicator 7 :     Public sector reform
                                                                                 No demonstrable
                                                                                 public reforms
Value                                                                            beyond those
quantitative or   Not measureable            N/A                N/A              already cited (i.e.,
Qualitative)                                                                     independent
                                                                                 regulators,
                                                                                 privatization)
Date achieved     02/15/1998                 05/01/2003         05/01/2003       12/31/2011
Comments          MOPIC indicates that MOPIC staff assigned to support public sector reform
(incl. %          provided support for privatization. But MOPIC did not provide or cite additional
achievement)      outputs or outcomes for this activity.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Privatization and PPP transactions
                                                                               Program supported
                                                                               2 transactions (port
                                                                               mgmt contract,
                                                                               airport BOT) and
                                                                               15 privatization
                                                                               transactions: JTC,
Value
                                                                               RJ Airlines, 5 RJ
(quantitative     None                       N/A                 N/A
                                                                               spinoffs, 2 aviation
or Qualitative)
                                                                               schools, agricultural
                                                                               processing, potash
                                                                               co., phosphate
                                                                               mines, electricity
                                                                               generation, and 2
                                                                               electricity dist
Date achieved     02/15/1998                 05/01/2003          05/01/2003    12/31/2008
Comments          This was an extraordinarily successful privatization program, which also saw
(incl. %          some important PPP transactions, for both of which the Program provided
achievement)      essential transaction support.
Indicator 2 :     Privatization proceeds
                                                                               The fifteen
                                                                               privatization
                                                                               transactions that
Value
                                                                               were completed
(quantitative     N/A                        N/A                 N/A
                                                                               with Program
or Qualitative)
                                                                               support raised
                                                                               US$2.295 billion in
                                                                               sales proceeds.
Date achieved     02/15/2008                 05/01/2003          05/01/2003    12/31/2008
Comments          To reiterate, the Program provided important support for completing
(incl. %          privatization programs that provided the means to create more fiscal space, and
achievement)      supported gains in competitiveness and employment.
Indicator 3 :     Public sector reforms
                                                                               No demonstrable
                                                                               public sector
Value                                                                          reforms other than
(quantitative     N/A                        N/A                 N/A           privatization and
or Qualitative)                                                                establishment of
                                                                               independent
                                                                               regulators.
Date achieved     02/15/1998                 05/01/2003          05/01/2003    12/31/2011
Comments         MOPIC staff assigned to support public sector reform are said to have provided
(incl. %         support for implementation of the GOJ's privatization program. But MOPIC did
achievement)     not provide or cite additional outputs or outcomes for this activity.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                             IP        Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     07/18/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory               21.28
  2     02/20/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory               22.31
  3     03/09/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory               23.08
  4     11/09/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory               23.12


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 10/14/2010               S       S          22.51   Extension of Closing Date


I. Disbursement Profile




*Disbursement projections were not inputted in SAP until in 2003
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In late 1997, Jordan’s infrastructure sectors (air transport, buses, rail, electricity, water,
telecommunications, and seaports) were state-owned. Moreover, through the state-owned
Jordan Investment Corporation, the Government of Jordan (GOJ) retained substantial
shareholdings in mining companies listed on the stock market. These companies suffered
from problems typical for state-owned enterprises (SOEs). For instance, it could take up
to ten years for the state telephone company to install a fixed-line. The airline had an
unsustainably high level of debt. International financial institutions were reluctant to
lend more to the state electricity sector. In terms of overall macroeconomic stability,
Jordan’s total debt to GDP ratio in 1997 was a worrisomely high 115 percent.

While Jordan’s public sector accounted for 40 percent of GDP and employed 40 percent
of the labor force, service delivery surveys found that the public sector remained a poor
provider of public services.

The GOJ desired structural reforms as a means to resume growth in per capita incomes,
maintain low inflation, and strengthen international reserves. Key elements in the GOJ’s
structural reform program included further reductions in tariff rates, continuation of
financial and legislative reforms, privatization, and public sector reforms.

The World Bank’s country strategy at the time included an emphasis on reviving,
maintaining, and accelerating economic growth through higher levels of private
investment, export development, and tourism. Active support for Jordan’s privatization
program was deemed the most feasible short-term way to attract large-scale foreign
investment – for state enterprises in infrastructure sectors. For Jordan’s energy sector, for
instance, the World Bank’s country strategy emphasized establishment of a competitive
electricity market; separation of electricity generation, transmission, and distribution; and
creation of an independent regulator for the electricity sector.

In 1998, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) awarded a
grant of US$15 million, to be administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the implementation of its
economic reform and development program. The Grant, TF021517, became effective on
February 15, 1998.

In 2005, following the good performance of the TF021517 and at the request of the GOJ
for financial assistance, USAID provided an additional grant of US$10 million to
increase the total grant amount to US$25 million. Due to changes in the Bank’s
administrative fee policy and in financial reporting requirements, the US$10 million was
not added to the original grant, but instead a successor trust fund to TF021517 was
created. The successor TF – TF052183 - became effective on June 6, 2005. With this
new trust fund, the objectives of the grant were amended to include public sector reform.



                                              1
This modification was the result of lengthy discussions between the Bank, USAID and
the GOJ regarding public sector reform and means to provide support in this area.

As this was a trust fund grant approved in FY98, there was no Program Appraisal
Document. Subsequently, under the Trust Fund Management Framework approved by
the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors on October 30, 2007, World Bank administered
trust funds were mainstreamed in the work of the Bank and integrated with Operational
policies and procedures applicable to IBRD/IDA Programs. As part of this effort,
Recipient-Executed trust funds with a commitment value of over US$5 million became
subject to standard documentation and reporting requirements. But at the time of their
inception, TF021517 and TF052183 were not subject to this Trust Fund Management
Framework.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

According to a Cooperative Agreement (dated February 10, 1998) between USAID and
the World Bank (“Bank?), the grant was intended to support reform and development of
Jordan’s economy, including through further trade facilitation and export development,
privatization, financial sector reform, and streamlining of the regulatory environment.
The Cooperative Agreement did not specify key indicators.

The development objectives, as per the Grant Agreement of TF021517, dated February
15, 1998, between the Bank and the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation,
the Recipient, are “Implementation of Annual Programs to support increased competition,
outward-oriented growth, a modern, efficient and well-regulated financial sector, best-
practice business laws, and privatization, including: (i) trade liberalization and export
development; and (ii) financial sector and legal reform.?

1.3 Revised PDO

The scope of program development objectives – export development, privatization,
financial sector reform, regulatory streamlining, and business law reform – identified in
the Cooperative Agreement and Grant Agreement were too broad and poorly-defined. As
mentioned above, the Cooperative Agreement did not specify key indicators. The World
Bank placed itself at substantial risk of promising more than it could realistically expect
to be able to deliver.

After eighteen months, the World Bank, USAID, and GOJ agreed on the need to narrow
the scope of the Program. In a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU dated August 16,
1999) among the GOJ Ministry of Planning (subsequently superseded by the Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation), the implementing agency – the Executive
Privatization Unit (EPU) (subsequently superseded by the Executive Privatization
Commission), USAID, and World Bank, the parties agreed to complete initial assistance
on insurance and securities regulation, but that the Program should otherwise focus on
privatization. A Revision to the Cooperative Agreement (dated June 13, 2000) specified
that the Program would focus on privatization and would exclude post-privatization
support. More specifically, the Revision indicated that the Program should focus on


                                            2
privatizations in telecommunications, postal services, airline, buses, rail, seaport,
electricity, petroleum refining/distribution, water, and grain silos. The Revision also
provided for institutional strengthening of the EPU and development of a public
communications program.

At the request of MOPIC, and following discussions with the Bank and USAID, the
objectives of the program were amended to include financing for public sector reform.
The revised objectives read as “Implementation of Annual Programs to support
privatization, private sector investment and public sector reform.?

The development objectives in the Letter Agreement for the additional grant of US$10
million (TF052183), dated May 27, 2005, are to: “(a) strengthen the investment climate,
leading to new investment and job creation; and (b) improve effectiveness and efficiency
of the delivery of public services, and creation of fiscal space. The activities for which
the Grant is given are the implementation of annual programs to support privatization,
private sector investment and public sector reform.?

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries are:
    Ministry of Finance – which was able to use $1.9 billion of privatization proceeds
      (from $2.3 billion total) to pay down debt (which, together with the effect of GDP
      growth, reduced debt/GDP from 115 percent in 1997 to 60 percent in 2008).
    Jordan’s citizens and private businesses – who benefited from improved
      infrastructure services, additional (indirect) employment, and lower interest rates
      and lower taxes; and
    Strategic and financial investors – who witnessed gains in the value of the
      investments as a result of improvements in the performance of the privatized
      firms.

1.5 Original Components

The activities financed by the Program were not grouped under specific components and
are derived from the Cooperative Agreement and Grant Agreement.

From actual practice, it is reasonable to group Program activities into four main
components, as follows:
    Regulatory reforms;
    Privatization;
    Public Sector Reform; and
    Public-private partnerships.

1.6 Revised Components

Not Applicable



                                            3
1.7 Other significant changes

As noted above (Section 1.3), the scope of the Program was significantly narrowed
through a June 2000 Revision to the Cooperative Agreement. Consistent with the August
1999 MOU, the Executive Privatization Unit established a Program Implementation Unit
(PIU) to implement the Program – e.g., select and use external consultants, prepare and
conclude privatization transactions – with administrative oversight from the World Bank.

Satisfied with the Program progress of the initial grant, USAID made available in 2005
an additional US$10 million to finance additional activities. This additional US$10
million was constituted as a successor trust fund to the initial grant.

Activities under the first grant were initially scheduled to be completed by February 28,
2001. The Grant’s Closing Dates were extended three times, to February 28, 2003, to
October 14, 2004 and finally to October 14, 2006.

Activities under the successor trust fund were initially scheduled to be completed by
October 14, 2006. The Closing Dates were extended – at GOJ’s request and with
USAID’s concurrence – five times since and the Grant activities ultimately concluded on
December 31, 2011.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The scope of the original Cooperative Agreement and Grant Agreement, which
encompassed numerous private and financial sector reforms, was too broad. As noted
above, the scope of activity was narrowed in the June 2000 Revision to the Cooperative
Agreement to focus on privatization. With this focus on privatization, the World Bank
was able to draw on extensive worldwide experience – including from OECD countries –
on lessons and best practices in the design, development, and implementation of
privatization programs.

2.2 Implementation

Since it dealt mostly with utilities and infrastructure sectors, Jordan’s privatization
strategy emphasized sector restructuring to encourage private investment and allow for
sustainable development of these sectors, in order to meet growing demand and improve
the quality of infrastructure services. Thus, sustainable sector development received the
highest priority. A second set of priorities included maximization of sales proceeds,
maintaining tariffs for consumers, and raising competition and competitiveness. The
GOJ was also very careful to reduce surplus labor through voluntary separations
supported by generous severance packages. While capital market development was a
strategic objective, local retail and private institutional investors showed relatively low
interest in participating in the privatization program’s public share offerings.




                                            4
Broad-based consultations helped achieve a consensus in support of privatization. The
main elements of Jordan’s privatization strategy were identified in a 1999 National
Privatization Strategy that was drafted by the Executive Privatization Commission (EPC),
reviewed by the Privatization Higher Council (including economic ministers and the
Central Bank governor and chaired by the deputy prime minister), and later discussed and
approved by the Council of Ministers and the Parliament. This National Privatization
Strategy – including objectives, guidelines, principles, methods, sectors, and institutions)
provided the basis for the Privatization Law that Jordan enacted in 2000. Privatization
was also seen as a means to address remaining imbalances in the economy and complete
implementation of the adjustment program that the GOJ had agreed upon with the
International Monetary Fund after Jordan’s earlier economic crisis.

Jordan’s privatization strategy did not identify a specific timetable for individual
privatization transactions. The timing of individual transactions instead depended on the
readiness of each sector (e.g., in terms of financial sustainability and regulatory
framework), recruitment of international advisors, and decisions taken by the
Privatization Higher Council.

Despite frequent changes in governments, Jordan sustained its commitment to
privatization for more than a decade – through 2008. Key stakeholders accepted
privatization as necessary to support the structural adjustment programs that had been
agreed at the highest levels of government. By coordinating, following up, and serving
as program advocate, the EPC also helped to maintain continuity of support for
privatization. At times, resistance to privatization did arise. For instance, some members
of society objected to the sale of public assets while others objected the transfer of
ownership to investors; managers and workers at some SOEs were also resistant. In the
end, the consensus in favor of privatization was strong enough to maintain forward
progress.

Success in implementing Jordan’s privatization program reflects the following factors: (i)
professional experienced and well-trained staff and management at the EPC; (ii)
adherence to international best practices in restructuring and privatization; (iii) support
from the World Bank and USAID in advising the EPC/GOJ and facilitating exposure to
cross-country experience; and (iv) use of highly-qualified international consultants to
support the EPC and GOJ in preparing, structuring, and concluding privatization
transactions.

Local financial institutions played some role in privatization transactions. For instance,
domestic banks participated in advisory consortia for the electricity and Royal Jordanian
transactions. A major local bank was in the initial investor consortium that purchased 40
percent of Jordan Telecommunications Company. But Jordan’s institutional investor
base has remained narrow. Hence, in most of the privatization transactions, the main
financial investor has been Jordan’s state-owned Social Security Corporation Investment
Unit (SSCIU) – supplemented in some cases by institutional investors from Gulf
Cooperation Council countries.




                                             5
Not all privatization attempts have succeeded. For instance, Aqaba Rail was too
distressed and too integral to Jordan Phosphate Mines Company (JPMC) to be privatized
apart from JPMC. Food security concerns thwarted plans to privatize Grain Silos.
Excessive legacy staffing and expensive universal service obligations discouraged
qualified operators from submitting bids for Jordan Post. While Jordan Petroleum
Refining Company (JPRC) may yet be privatized, the process still awaits Parliament’s
approval of an enabling law.

While the EPC showed substantial successes in privatization and in two large public-
private partnerships (PPPs) (Aqaba Container Terminal and Queen Alia International
Airport), it was not able to make progress on innovative small PPPs. Due to the lack of
an appropriate PPP Law at the time of implementation, a few small/medium PPP projects
had to be terminated. For the Axle Load Management, which was selected for
procurement as a PPP, local law firms have provided conflicting views on whether or not
a sufficient legal basis exists for a private facilitator operator to collect fines that would
otherwise go to the GOJ. The Irbid Wholesale Fruit and Vegetables Market was also
deemed to be financially and commercially not viable for a private developer.

The Grant was restructured mainly to accommodate an extension of its closing date.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Interest in M&E has grown since 1998, when this Program commenced. This Program
did not have any special arrangements for M&E.

However, assessment of Program outcomes has been facilitated by the availability of (i)
an independent 2008 privatization impact assessment financed by the European Union
and (ii) a 2011 World Bank regional financial sector flagship report that provides some
basis for assessing the impact of regulatory reforms in the areas of mutual funds and
insurance regulation. These assessments of Program outcomes are presented below in
Section 3.2.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As the Program typically supported the privatization of existing SOEs, there were no
safeguard issues. However, EPC and the Bank were mindful of potential environmental
issues in preparing for investor due diligence. Most terms of reference for transaction
advice required an assessment of environmental issues. This was to protect the GOJ in
case environmental issues arose during the sales process. On fiduciary compliance,
records and accounts were kept and audited, and audited financial statements submitted
to the World Bank annually in accordance with the Grant Agreement. On procurement, a
post-review of sample contracts conducted in June 2009 found that record keeping for
contracts not subject to the Bank’s prior review was incomplete. This was resolved to
satisfaction and the EPC was advised to keep up-to-date and accurate records.




                                              6
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

As the Program resulted in a number of completed privatization transactions – in many
cases involving a strategic investor and financial institutional investors – reforms are
likely to be sustained by the normal corporate governance and capital market rules and
institutions that apply to privately-owned firms.

The main uncompleted portion of the Program at the time of the completion of work on
December 31, 2011, is closure on some innovative small/medium public-private
partnerships (PPPs) – e.g., facilities management of government buildings, bus terminal,
wholesale market. It appears that a special-purpose PPP Law is needed to enable such
PPPs. The Bank provided technical assistance and Japan PHRD Grant financing to
support development of a draft PPP Law. The draft law was approved by the Cabinet in
June 2011 and submitted to Parliament where it is still under consideration. Follow-on
implementation of innovative small/medium PPPs will depend on enactment of a suitable
PPP Law. Development of innovative small/medium PPPs – which can achieve both
fiscal savings and improvements in public services – would also benefit from
establishment of a PPP unit – e.g., within the office of the Minister of Finance or Prime
Minister – to identify opportunities for private financing of capital investments that
would otherwise receive public financing. These comments notwithstanding, Jordan has
accomplished much in PPPs and can serve as a model for other countries in the region.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The privatization and PPP transactions supported by the Program are consistent with
long-standing joint efforts by the GOJ and World Bank to promote private sector
development within Jordan, enhance the competitiveness of Jordanian firms in a
globalized economy, improve service delivery, enhance fiscal sustainability, and reduce
and manage fiscal and macroeconomic risks.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The outputs listed in Annex 2 resulted in a number of specific outcomes, which follow.
The M&E sources listed above (Section 2.3) provide a basis for assessments of the
impact and support for Program development objectives, which are summarized below.

Specific Outcomes: Regulatory Reforms

Mutual fund regulation – The Program assisted the Jordan Security Corporation in
developing a 1999 mutual fund regulation.

Insurance regulation – The Program financed preparation of a draft regulation, which
provided the basis for the Insurance Supervision Act issued in 1999. In addition, the
Program provided important support for establishment of Jordan’s independent Insurance
Regulatory Commission (IRC) in 2000.


                                           7
Electricity sector regulation – The Program supported establishment of Jordan’s
independent Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC) in 2001. In turn, the ERC
provided a sound regulatory basis for the subsequent restructuring of the National
Electricity Power Company (NEPCO), the privatization of one state-owned generating
company and two state-owned distribution company, and the establishment of two
independent power producers (IPPs).

Land transport regulation – The Program financed preparation of a draft law to support
establishment of an independent Public Transport Regulatory Commission (PTRC) in
2001 to regulate privately-owned and operated road transport. PTRC subsequently
evolved into a Land Transport Regulatory Committee.

Downstream petroleum regulation – The Program supported development of a draft
Energy and Mineral Law that was discussed in Parliament and then returned to the GOJ
for further revision.

Specific Outcomes: Privatization

Jordan Telecommunications Company (JTC) – EPC’s public tender for a strategic
investor for 40 percent of JTC’s shares and full management control attracted bids from
two consortia. The consortium controlled by France Telecom was declared the winner
and purchased 40 percent of the GOJ’s JTC shares in 2000. A follow-on 2002 tender of
GOJ shares was undersubscribed, but an additional 10.5 percent of shares were placed
with Jordan’s Social Security Corporation Investment Unit (SSCIU) and other
institutional and retail investors. In 2006, the Jordan Investment Corporation (JIC) sold
another 11 percent of shares to France Telecom (FT) – giving FT majority ownership –
and 29 percent to other institutional investors. Recent JTC shareholdings were as
follows: France Telecom, 51 percent; SSCIU, 29 percent; other institutional investors, 13
percent; free float, 7 percent.

Arab Potash Company (APC) – Through competitive tender, a 26 percent GOJ
shareholding was sold in 2003 to a foreign strategic investor. The sale/purchase
agreement gave the strategic investor the right to propose candidates for key management
positions.

Agricultural Marketing and Processing Company (AMPCO) – AMPCO was privatized in
2005. All shares were sold through an open bidding process to a foreign investor.

Jordan Phosphate Mines Company (JPMC) – In 2006, a foreign institutional investor
purchased 37 percent of JPMC shares and acquired management rights. Recent JPMC
ownership was as follows: foreign institutional investor, 37 percent; GOJ, 26 percent;
SSCIU, 14 percent; other pension funds, 5 percent; other financial investors, 11 percent;
and free float, 7 percent.

Aviation sector – During 2000 – 2006, EPC conducted open tenders to sell 80–100
percent of shares in five businesses that had been spun off from Royal Jordanian Airlines:



                                            8
duty free shops and catering to foreign strategic investors; aircraft maintenance to a
foreign financial investor; and engine maintenance and training/simulation to Jordanian
investors. In addition, 100 percent of shares in the Royal Jordanian Air Academy and the
Queen Noor Technical College for Civil Aviation were sold to Jordanian investors
through competitive tenders.

Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJ) – Following extensive restructuring to turn around
Jordan’s ailing national carrier, 63.3 percent of RJ shares were sold through an initial
public offering (IPO). Recent RJ ownership stands as follows: GOJ, 26 percent; SSCIU,
10 percent; employees, 5 percent; other institutional investors, 36 percent; free float, 23
percent.

Central Electric Power Generation Company (CEGCO) – Following an open tender, 51
percent of CEGCO shares were sold to a foreign consortium with another 9 percent sold
to SSCIU.

Electricity distribution – Following an open tender, the GOJ sold its 100 percent holding
in Electrical Distribution Company (EDC) and 55.4 percent holding in Irbid Distribution
Company (IDECO) to a consortium made up of foreign and local financial investors.

Aqaba Railways Company (ARC) – While ARC’s workforce had been reduced 40 percent
as of 2007, two attempts at privatization were unsuccessful.

Jordan Post – A 2009 open tender was cancelled because it attracted only one bidder,
who was considered unsatisfactory. Worldwide, postal privatization has been especially
challenging because of high staffing/labor costs and expensive universal service
obligations.

Jordan Grain Silos – Due to food security concerns prompted by a sharp worldwide rise
in food prices, the GOJ decided in 2008 not to proceed with this privatization.

Jordan Petroleum Refinery Corporation – This transaction has been delayed, but is still
expected to proceed to completion after the Government and Parliament agree on a
supporting law.

Specific Outcomes: Public Sector Reform

Program-financed staff working in MOPIC’s Policies and Strategies Department helped
develop economic and development policies, set strategic plans and priorities, and
provided general support for the privatization program.

Specific Outcomes: PPPs

Aqaba Container Terminal (ACT) – A management contract was awarded to a leading
international port operator in 2004.




                                            9
Queen Alia International Airport (QAIA) – Following a competitive tender, an
international consortium was selected to rehabilitate the existing QAIA terminal, develop
a new terminal, and operate both terminals for 25 years under a rehabilitation, expansion,
and operation agreement (REOA). This transaction reached financial closure in
November 2007.

Small/medium PPPs – For various reasons (e.g., absence of an enabling law, municipal
opposition), the EPC was unable to move beyond feasibility studies for a number of
potential transactions. These included PPPs for tourism, bus terminals, government
office buildings, hospital parking, axle-load management, urban development, wholesale
markets, and customs warehouses.

Impact: Regulatory Reforms

Mutual fund regulation – As of end-2009, Jordan still had only three mutual funds with
the equivalent of US$17 million in assets under management, well below the level
expected for a country with Jordan’s economic and demographic characteristics.

Insurance regulation – Establishment of an independent regulator supported robust
development of Jordan’s insurance sector. As of end-2009, life insurance premiums were
close to expected levels while non-life premiums were above predicted levels for a
country with Jordan’s economic and demographic characteristics.

Electricity sector regulation – This allowed both privatization and the introduction of
new independent power producers. The resulting gains to consumers are summarized
below.

Impact: Privatization

                        Table 1. Privatization Proceeds (US$ in millions)
     Transaction(s)                                    Year(s)              Amount
     Jordan Telecommunications Co.                 2000/2002/2006           1,327.3
     RJ spinoffs + aviation schools         2000/2001/2003/2005/2006/2007     171.1
     Arab Potash Co.                                    2003                  173.0
     Agricultural Marketing/Processing                  2005                   12.6
     Jordan Phosphate Mines Co.                         2006                  111.0
     Royal Jordanian (RJ) Airline                       2007                  231.7
     CEGCO                                              2007                  164.6
     Electricity distribution (2)                       2008                  104.0
     TOTAL                                                                  2,295.3

Sales proceeds – Privatization transactions financed by the Program raised US$2.3 billion
(Table 1). Almost all (82 percent) of these proceeds were used to retire external debt.
The remainder was used to pay off SOE debts or for financing health, education, or rural
development Programs. In March 2008, Jordan concluded an agreement to buy back
US$2.4 billion of Paris club debt (at an 11 percent discount) using privatization proceeds
and some assistance from Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. As a result,
Jordan’s debt/GDP ratio dropped from 100 percent in 2000 to 60 percent in 2008. Thus,


                                                10
privatization contributed to lower interest charges and overall macroeconomic stability
and resilience heading into the worldwide financial crisis that commenced in mid-2008.

Recurring fiscal proceeds – Annual payments to the Treasury – e.g., taxes, dividends,
revenue-sharing, royalties, fees – from SOEs restructured and privatized with Program
support have more than tripled, from JD 78 million in 2000 to JD 270 million in 2008.

Enterprise performance – Firms restructured and privatized with Program support have
shown substantial gains in financial performance and productivity. For example, JTC
sales/employee has increased from JD 58,000 in 2000 to JD 159,000 in 2009, while the
number of subscribers per employee has risen from 170 in 2000 to 1,000 in 2008. At
CEGCO, sales per employee increased from JD 106,000 in 1999 to JD 162,000 in 2007,
while power generation per employee increased from 4.6 giga-watt hours (GWh) to 8.0.
The electricity distribution companies were privatized only in 2008. For the period
1999–2007, however, returns on equity (ROE) were consistently higher at the fully-
private Jordan Electric Power Company (JEPCO) and partially-private IDECO than at the
fully-public EDCO. Royal Jordanian Airlines (RJ) more than doubled its revenues and
staff productivity between 2000 and 2008 and modernized its fleet, while reducing its
debt/assets from 150 percent to about 50 percent. Other RJ spinoffs have remained
profitable. The mining companies have been generally profitable since privatization.

Consumers – Jordan’s consumers have gained from privatization, to varying degrees. For
example:
    In telecommunications, waiting times for a fixed-line connection have dropped
      dramatically, from almost ten years pre-privatization to just a few days now.
      One-time connection fees have been cut by 75 percent. Almost all fixed-line
      tariffs have been halved since 1998. The exception has been local peak-time calls,
      but the 50 percent growth in these is in line with inflation. Fixed-line reliability
      has improved greatly. Consumer gains in telecommunications are due to the
      combined effects of technological improvements, increased competition, and
      commercialization and privatization.
    In electricity, total bulk supply almost doubled between 1999 and 2007. Average
      tariffs have been increased in line with inflation, but the social “life line? tariff
      actually declined in real terms.
    In air transport, Royal Jordanian has increased its destinations, while average
      weekly frequencies and passenger numbers have doubled. Customer satisfaction
      had increased by 2008 to 95 percent for business class and 92 percent for
      economy.

Workers – As a matter of policy, GOJ sought to avoid involuntary retrenchments in the
course of privatization. Voluntary early retirement packages, consisting of a lump sum
payment combined with monthly health and other benefits until retirement age, was the
norm. Staff cut-backs did exceed 15 percent at the two mining companies and JTC.
Overall, however, employment at the enterprises privatized with Program support
decreased only by 2 percent (or 448 jobs) between 2000 and 2007. Against this number,
GOJ estimates that sector reforms led to 25,000 additional new jobs at mobile phone



                                           11
firms and IT-enabled businesses. For workers who were not retrenched and who
remained with firms being privatized, real (i.e., post-inflation) wages for the period 2000
– 2007 increased or held steady in most cases. Workers at privatized firms also benefited
from improved health insurance coverage. Lastly, in at least some cases, new
investors/operators of privatized firms increased training budgets.

Local communities – Jordan’s privatized enterprises have shown a greater commitment to
corporate social responsibility (CSR) than did their SOE predecessors. For example,
several privatized firms have substantially increased contributions to support local
schools, rehabilitate civil works, improve food distribution, and expand medical services.

Capital investment – Privatized firms for which the Program financed transaction support
additionally invested JD 721 million (about US$ 1.015 billion equivalent) during the
period 2000 – 2007 to expand and modernize fixed assets – or 11.4 percent of total
foreign direct investment (FDI) for the period. It is noteworthy that this JD 721 million
went to enhance the capacity and productivity of Jordan’s industrial and service sectors,
while much other FDI into Jordan was for real estate development.

Capital market development – As of end-2009, market capitalization of JD 5.9 billion for
five privatized firms (JTC, RJ, JPMC, APC, IDECO) represented 26 percent of total
market capitalization for the Amman Stock Exchange (ASE). In most cases, however,
the great majority of shares in these companies are held by the strategic investor and GOJ
institutions, such that free floats available for public trading remain thin: e.g., about 7
percent for JTC, 10 percent for APC, and 7 percent for JPMC.

Impact: Public Sector Reforms

While Program-financed MOPIC staff may have provided some support to the GOJ’s
privatization program, it is not evident that these staff had any impact on other areas of
public sector reform.

Impact: PPPs

Aqaba Container Terminal (ACT) – ACT operations improved immediately after a
leading international operator was awarded a management contract to run ACT.
Container throughput increased 18 percent in the first year of private operation and nearly
doubled in five years, from 302,927 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) in 2003 to
587,530 TEUs in 2008. Anchorage waiting time was reduced from as much as 129 hours
(>5 days) to zero during the first year, and average port stays dropped from 8 days under
public management to a few hours in 2005 under private management. New shipping
companies have started using ACT, which has been rated as among the three best
terminals in the Middle East and South Asia.

Queen Alia International Airport (QAIA) – As part of its rehabilitation, expansion, and
operation agreement, the international consortium will invest US$750 million to refurbish
the existing QAIA terminal and build a new terminal. This is expected to support a



                                            12
doubling of passenger traffic by 2030 and enhance Jordan’s attractiveness as an
international tourist destination and regional air hub.

3.3 Efficiency

The two Grants totaled US$25 million, including the Bank’s administrative fees.

Over the 13-year life of these Grants, the grant-funded Program generated over US$4
billion in capital inflows (or commitments), as follows:
      US$2.295 billion in privatization sales proceeds;
      US$1.015 billion in capital investment by privatized companies; and
      US$0.750 billion in capital investment in the QAIA Program.

In addition, the Program has had many indirect benefits, which are not measured.
Notable indirect benefits include employment gains of 25,000 in the reformed ITC sector;
higher annual fiscal inflows from privatized firms; improved access to reliable electrical
service; and additional FDI and trade flows resulting from major improvements at Aqaba
Container Terminal.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Program outputs and outcomes provided direct support for private sector development,
increased competitiveness and employment, improved services, and fiscal sustainability.
USAID’s contribution of US$25 million in grant funding for regulatory reform,
institutional, and transaction support led to privatization/PPP transactions that produced
over US$4 billion in inflows – as detailed above. Hence, the Program was
extraordinarily efficient and might have warranted a Highly Satisfactory rating. However,
beyond the contribution to the privatization of state-owned enterprises, associated
regulatory reforms, and the attendant improvements in service delivery, the program did
not contribute any other aspect of the Government’s public sector reform agenda. In
addition, the Program did not achieve any closure on innovative small/medium PPPs.
For these reasons, the overall outcome rating is judged to be Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The privatization/PPP transactions supported by the Program led to additional overall
employment (indirect plus direct), improved public services at no overall increase in
costs, lower interest rates, and corporate social responsibility (CSR) programs that
benefitted rural areas (detailed in Section 3.2) – all of which support poverty reduction,
gender, and social development goals.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Program supported the establishment of a number of institutions – including an


                                              13
independent Insurance Regulatory Commission, independent Electricity Regulatory
Commission, and Public Transport Regulatory Commission (currently Land Transport
Regulatory Commission) – which continue to provide a sound regulatory basis for
privately-owned and operated portions of Jordan’s financial and infrastructure sectors. In
addition, practical experience in preparing privatization/PPP transactions (e.g., consultant
selection, feasibility studies, preparation of information memoranda and valuations) is
now widely diffused throughout the GOJ.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Jordan has become a role model for other MENA region governments that are
contemplating or developing privatization programs. Several MENA governments have
already been in contact with EPC to learn from its experience. In this regard, the Bank
organized study visits to the EPC by delegations from Iraq, Yemen, and Kuwait.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

The privatization transactions have already been completed and regulatory arrangements
(e.g., for electricity) continue to function. Ownership has been transferred to the private
sector in return for substantial privatization revenues. Barring some totally unforeseen
re-nationalization of these assets or severe macro-economic crisis, the above-indicated
development outcomes are secure.

Because PPPs involve ongoing mutual contractual obligations, there is greater potential
risk to development outcomes from PPPs. For the two contracted PPPs that were assisted
by the Program, the preparation of a high-quality feasibility study and/or selection of
credible private sector partners mitigate this risk.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. The Bank obtained substantial initial USAID
grant funding for a potentially-broad spectrum of economic reforms and then moved
quickly to agree with GOJ and USAID on a narrower and more-practical focus for the
Program. While it would perhaps have been better to have agreed on a narrower scope
from the start, the additional time taken to re-focus did not impede preparation and
completion of the initial privatization transactions.




                                            14
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervisory performance is rated Satisfactory. As administrator of the grant funds
provided by USAID, the Bank followed due diligence in carrying out its obligation
during implementation of the program. The Bank conducted two or so supervision
missions every year and regularly met with the EPC, USAID, MOPIC and other key
stakeholders. With respect to fiduciary responsibilities, a financial management specialist
based in Amman regularly participated in the supervision missions to review the FM
aspects of the Grant. The Bank also reviewed the Program’s annual audited financial
statements, and oversaw every stage of the procurement process for contracts subject to
the Bank’s prior review. In many instances, the Bank helped the EPC identify
appropriate specialized consultants where expertise was scarce.

With the narrowed focus on privatization, the Bank marshaled a team of advisors to
provide the EPC with supplemental analyses (e.g., on labor issues) and recommendations
to facilitate the preparation of privatization transactions. For this purpose, the Bank and
USAID agreed that part of the first grant would be utilized and executed by the Bank, as
a rapid response facility. The rapid response facility was also used to fund a privatization
expert, who took an unpaid leave of absence from the World Bank and worked full-time
on-site with the EPC.

To support the development of PPPs, the World Bank obtained US$ 750,000 of
additional funding in the form of a grant from the Government of Japan. This grant was
used to identify an appropriate regulatory/institutional framework for PPPs in Jordan,
train Jordanian officials, develop pre-feasibility studies for a few potential PPP
transactions, and develop a draft PPP Law. The World Bank used supervision missions
to sustain a policy dialogue on passage of a draft PPP Law and offer detailed suggestions
for the draft law and implementing regulations. To provide additional support for
development of a PPP Law, the World Bank included the Government’s approval of a
draft PPP Law as one of the prior actions for the US$250 million First Programmatic
Development Policy Loan that was approved by the World Bank’s Board of Executive
Directors on January 24, 2012.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Satisfactory rating is based on: (i) the seamless continuation in the implementation of
the Program despite several changes in the Bank’s task managers of the Grants; (ii)
efficient support from the Bank’s FM and procurement unit and the Bank’s overall
oversight of the Program; (iii) close dialogue maintained with the Chairman and staff at
the EPC, MOPIC and USAID Jordan to ensure the success of the Program; and (iv)
timely technical advice to the EPC and other elements of the GOJ. This was a very
successful collaboration as it melded the comparative advantages of the Bank and USAID.
USAID, with its substantial budget resources, was in a position to provide material
encouragement for GOJ’s economic reforms. The Bank – with its independence, global
reach and expertise, and recipient-executed approach – facilitated capacity-building,


                                            15
ensured a level playing-field through international competitive bidding, and accessed a
broad base of relevant expertise.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) played a key oversight
role and ownership in the implementation of the Program. In particular, the GOJ
remained committed to the objectives throughout the life of the Program. Staff at the
MOPIC also did a good job in terms of financial reporting, managing withdrawals and
the Designated Account, and providing audited financial statements on an annual basis.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Program was implemented by the Executive Privatization Commission (formerly
Executive Privatization Unit) under the oversight of MOPIC. The EPC was responsible
for the day-to-day management of the Program and its performance in planning and
execution of the activities financed under the Program was excellent. Staff members at
the EPC were familiar with the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines and processes, and
adhered to reporting requirements. The EPC was supported by staff from MOPIC in the
performance of financial management tasks and reporting. Grant funds financed the
hiring of dedicated staff at the EPC namely a Grant Manager, a Procurement Officer, an
Administrative Assistant and several experts on short term assignments to advise the
Chairman of the EPC on PPP issues, PPP transactions, provide legal opinions, and
privatization transactions. The EPC made good use of the Bank’s advice as well as
advice and work product from a wide arrange of consultants, both individuals and firms
(e.g., investment banks). The EPC was also effective in cooperating and liaising with
other GOJ entities – to prepare SOEs for privatization, organize competitive tenders on a
transparent basis according to World Bank standards, negotiate with preferred bidders,
and conclude and document a number of sizable and important privatization transactions.

On PPPs, the EPC provided important transaction support for the Aqaba Container
Terminal management contract and – more importantly – for the Queen Alia International
Airport terminal renovation and BOT transaction. EPC tried, but did not succeed in
making much progress on completing other innovative small/medium PPPs. Grant funds
financed several workshops and training related to PPP agreements and contracts, PPP
identification and selection, thus, contributing to strengthen the capacity of the EPC as
well as MOPIC.

On public sector reform, there is no evidence that Program-financed MOPIC staff
contributed to public sector reforms other than generalized support for the GOJ’s
privatization program.




                                           16
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
GOJ – in particular the MOPIC and EPC – did a fine job overall in terms of managing the
Program’s financial resources, staffing with qualified professionals, financial
management, procurement and selection of consultants, and the preparation and
negotiation of privatization and PPP transactions.

6. Lessons Learned

The World Bank is using Jordan’s privatization program as a model for other MENA
governments considering a greater commitment to privatization or interested in the
details of how to design and implement a privatization program. Lessons from Jordan’s
privatization program likely have broader applicability as well, including for
governments in South Asia and Africa. Key lessons from Jordan’s privatization program
include the following:
    a) Need for government commitment. Jordan, despite a number of changes in
        government over the past 10 – 15 years, remained solidly committed to
        implementation of privatization and PPPs. This sustained commitment reflected a
        collective sense of urgency on the need to turn annual fiscal outflows (e.g., for
        subsidies) into inflows and to maximize privatization proceeds available for
        paying down an uncomfortably high level of debt. This sense of urgency made it
        easier for officials and legislators to agree on a workable privatization law, on a
        centralized privatization agency, and on the terms of major transactions.
    b) Need for a clear strategy. Governments should set priorities in terms of what
        they are attempting to achieve. Privatization – in particular – is likely to involve
        tradeoffs among desires for maximizing sales proceeds, protecting workers,
        enhancing enterprise competitiveness, developing capital markets, and sharing
        wealth with citizens. GOJ’s revealed priorities were privatization sales proceeds,
        competitiveness gains, and worker protection. It will be important for the
        effectiveness of a nation’s privatization program to establish priorities in cases
        where such program goals conflict.
    c) Need for sufficient legal authority. Jordan’s 2000 Privatization Law gave
        sufficient authority for a new Executive Privatization Commission (EPC) to retain
        external advisors, undertake investor search according to agreed tender
        procedures, and negotiate privatization transactions – subject to oversight by a
        high-level GOJ Privatization Committee. This 2000 law provided an adequate
        legal basis for a series of privatization transaction beginning with the mixed-
        capital initial privatization of Jordan Telecommunications Company in 2000
        through strategic sale and public share offering. By contrast, except for water,
        power, and some other PPPs subject to sector-specific legislation, Jordan
        continues to lack an adequate legal basis for innovative small/medium PPPs. A
        number of PPP-related rights and obligations – such as a private developer’s right
        to collect fees that would otherwise go to the GOJ – still need to be codified in a
        special-purpose PPP Law. The lack of such a law has halted at least some PPP
        transactions.




                                            17
d) Need for a centralized privatization agency. Blessed with sufficient budget and
   staffing, EPC was able to build in-house capacity and institutional memory on the
   numerous detailed operational issues involved in organizing and implementing a
   successful privatization program (e.g., advisor selection, review of advisor work
   product, negotiation).         Concentrating responsibility for privatization
   implementation in one central agency – rather than among multiple line agencies
   – hastened the accumulation of a critical mass of privatization program
   development and implementation skills. It is important for the privatization
   agency to have efficient local staff who can work efficiently with external
   consultants. External consultants are good if their local staff counterparts are
   good. Hence, capacity building for local staff should be given top priority.
e) Need for intra-governmental coordination. Jordan’s large and successful
   privatizations – including the JTC, RJ Group, and power sector restructuring and
   privatization transactions as well as the QAIA BOT transaction – required close
   coordination between the EPC, line ministries (e.g., for communications, transport,
   energy), newly-established regulators, and capital market institutions. Poor
   working relations with any one of these would have disrupted a mixed-capital
   privatization transaction in any one of these regulated sectors. The privatization
   agency must be able to respond quickly to requirements set by external advisors
   and obtain timely government decisions. Investors often have opportunities in
   multiple countries, and an entire transaction can fail if a government decision
   takes longer than it should. To avoid this, working committees should be given
   broad decision-making authority within pre-specified committee mandates.
f) Need for highly-qualified external advisors. Jordan’s large privatization and
   PPP transactions involved complex preparations, as indicated by the list of
   selected outputs in Annex 2. The privatization agency’s readiness and ability to
   hire leading international firms to advise and assist on such detailed
   implementation matters is essential. Hence, the consultant selection process
   should be open and be based on full competition. The committee responsible for
   selecting an external advisor should be given full freedom of choice without any
   outside pressure.
g) Need for adequate preparation. Enterprise restructuring, if needed, should be
   completed prior to privatization. Pre-privatization enterprise restructuring should
   be based on some sort of a privatization plan. There should also be some
   enterprise screening in order to exclude non-viable enterprises from privatization.
   In the case of a PPP, a thorough feasibility study should be completed before
   selecting a Program for PPP. Otherwise, transaction efforts may go for naught if
   it subsequently turns out that a Program is infeasible.
h) Need to ease out redundant labor. As part of enterprise preparation, the GOJ
   sought to avoid disadvantaging redundant SOE staff. As a matter of policy, GOJ
   avoided involuntary retrenchments in favor of voluntary early-retirement
   packages (with lump sum severance) and support for health insurance/pension
   premiums until retirement age. Especially in cases of SOEs that are severely
   distressed and/or highly over-staffed, it will be important to design
   severance/retrenchment packages carefully and – if need be – to draw on




                                       18
         international financial assistance to fund severance and interim health/pension
         premiums.
    i)   Need for sufficient funding. Sector restructuring, development of regulatory
         frameworks and capacity, labor retrenchment, and transaction support are
         extremely expensive. It will be essential for a government embarking on a
         privatization program to make sure that it has developed a realistic projection of
         overall privatization program costs and lined up sufficient funding (e.g., from
         internal government budgets, development agency grants, or international
         financial institution credits) to cover projected program costs.
    j)   Need to avoid conflicts of interest. Those involved in a privatization or PPP
         program or transaction should have no conflict of interest. These include senior
         officials, privatization agency staff, and external advisors and their families and
         business partners.
    k)   Need to monitor impact. Privatization is contentious, and it can be difficult to
         demonstrate the benefits. To do so, it would be useful to establish a pre-
         privatization baseline in terms of the enterprise performance results, employment
         effects, fiscal effects, investment, and competitiveness to be expected in a
         counter-factual case where the enterprise remains under state-ownership.
    l)   Need for patience. Privatization/PPP transactions usually take a long time to do
         properly – often much longer than expected at the outset. Despite strenuous
         efforts, annual disbursements for the Program in Jordan never got much higher
         than $2 million. Any number of factors – including needs for enterprise
         restructuring, enabling legislation and capacity development or adverse market
         sentiment and investor disinterest – can delay transactions. For example, while
         RJ Airlines was ready for privatization, potential investor interest disappeared in
         mid-September 2011. To its immense credit, USAID remained patient and
         supportive throughout the long life of this Program, which paid off both in terms
         of successful outcomes and in establishment of valuable lessons and institutional
         frameworks for future success.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

None raised.

(b) Co-financiers/Donors

None raised

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

None raised.




                                             19
Annex 1. Program Costs and Financing

(a) Program Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                   Actual/Latest
                             Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
          Components                               Estimate (USD
                                (USD millions)                      Appraisal
                                                      millions)

            Total Baseline Cost        0.00              0.00          0.00
Physical Contingencies
                                       0.00              0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies
                                       0.00              0.00           0.00
           Total Program Costs        24.20             22.55          93.18
Administrative Fees                    0.80              0.80
    Total Financing Required          25.00             23.35




(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                    Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                millions)   millions)
Trust Fund – TF021517                              14.70       13.72       93.33
Trust Fund – TF052183                                9.50        8.83      92.95




                                         20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (selected)

Legal/Regulatory Reforms:
    Mutual fund regulation – assistance to Jordan Securities Corporation in
       developing a 1999 mutual fund regulation.
    Insurance regulation – insurance sector and policy assessments, development of a
       draft law, the Insurance Supervision Act of 1999; on-site expert support for
       establishment of the independent Insurance Regulatory Commission (IRC) in
       2000; assistance in developing an inspection and audit Program; training in
       insurance examination and advisory procedures; and development of an
       information system.
    Audit and accounting – draft law, submitted to the Prime Ministry in July 2003, to
       restructure the Jordanian Association of Certified Public Accountants.
    Electricity sector regulation – a handbook and study tour to the U.S. on the U.S.
       electricity market and energy regulations, to support 2001 establishment of an
       independent Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC).
    Land transport regulation – a draft law to support 2001 establishment of an
       independent Public Transport Regulatory Commission (PTRC) to monitor
       privately-owned and operated road transport.
    Downstream petroleum regulation – legal and regulatory assessments as well as
       model legislation and regulations, which fed into a draft Energy and Mineral Law,
       discussed by Parliament in 2009.

Privatization
     Jordan Telecommunications Company (JTC) – strategy and action plan for the
        sale of JTC shares; bidding documents for financial advisors; and agreements for
        international and domestic underwriting.
     Arab Potash Company (APC) – terms of reference for a financial advisor, who
        was then paid by APC.
     Agricultural Marketing and Processing Company (AMPCO) – a privatization
        strategy.
     Jordan Phosphate Mines Company (JPMC) – technical, financial, tax, and legal
        due diligence reports; strategy and privatization recommendations; and draft
        shareholder and share transfer agreements.
     Airline subsidiaries and training institutes – restructuring and privatization plans;
        business plans; financial assessments; marketing plans; information memoranda;
        and financial assessments.
     Royal Jordanian Airline – a national airline strategy; information memorandum;
        releases from various banks and other creditors; employee transfers; regulatory
        transfers, including rights under bilateral air service agreements; financial
        restructuring; strategy recommendations; privatization strategy; and arrangements
        for initial public offering of shares on the Amman Stock Exchange.
     Electricity sector – advice on restructuring of NEPCO; bulk tariffs, organization
        of CEGCO, NEPCO, and EDCO; and valuation of IDECO’s fixed assets; support
        for CEGCO privatization, including an implementation agreement, fuel supply


                                            21
       agreement, land lease agreement, government guarantees, sale/purchase
       agreement, amended shareholder agreement, power generation license, power
       purchase agreements for eight power stations, and a gas supply agreement; and
       support for the EDCO and IDECO privatizations, including distribution and retail
       supply licenses, bulk supply agreements, disclosure letters, implementation
       agreements, and share acquisition agreements.
      Aqaba Railways – privatization transaction advice.
      Jordan Post – preparatory work; legal and financial review; valuation; sale
       strategy; and bidding documents.
      Jordan Grain Silos – privatization strategy.
      Jordan Petroleum Refinery Corporation – social and environmental plan, bidding
       documents, and information memorandum.

Public sector reform
    There is no indication or evidence from MOPIC that Program-financed MOPIC
       staff produced outputs that are in any way comparable to those (e.g., draft laws,
       information memoranda, due diligence reports, feasibility studies) produced for
       the legal/regulatory reform, privatization, and PPP components.

Public-Private Partnerships
    Aqaba Container Terminal – initial draft management contract.
    Queen Alia International Airport – draft rehabilitation, expansion, and operation
       agreement (REOA); construction contract; design consultant agreement; operation
       and maintenance agreement; commission lease agreement; government services
       agreement; free zone agreement; REOA independent engineer agreement;
       common terms agreement; IFC loan agreement; ijarah and istisan agreements;
       and consent and assumption agreement.
    Small/medium PPPs – assessments of selected sectors (government offices,
       health, education, municipal, transport); feasibility studies for nine PPP
       candidates (tourism, bus terminal, two office complexes, hospital parking, axle-
       load management, urban development, and two wholesale markets); PPP
       strategies and options, financial models, risk and market assessment, and
       procurement strategy for government office PPPs; advice to Directorate of
       Government Buildings on reorganization to support property and facilities
       management; a management information system for property/facilities
       management; feasibility study for a PPP to rehabilitate and expand the Al-Azraq
       Al-Omary Road link with Saudi Arabia; a feasibility study for private
       rehabilitation and operation of Amman Customs warehouses; and workshop
       training materials.




                                          22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Not used.




                                    23
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Christian Petersen          Principal Economist                MNSED           TTL
Supervision/ICR
William Mako                Lead PSD Specialist               MNSFP            TTL
Steve Wan Yan Lun           Operations Analyst                MNSF1         Operations
John Speakman               Lead PSD Specialist                MNSIF           TTL
Elisabeth Sherwood          Financial Specialist               MNSIF        Operations
Nora Kaoues                 Sr. Operations Officer             MNSIF        Operations
Velayutham Vijayaverl       Sr. Procurement Specialist         MNAPR       Procurement
                            Sr. Financial Management
Jad Mazahreh                                                  MNAFM            FM
                            Specialist
Kenneth Mwenda              Sr. Counsel                        LEGEM          LEG
Christian Petersen          Principal Economist                MNSED          TTL

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Program Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                     0.53
  FY99                                                                   143.61
  FY00                                                                   107.30
  FY01                                           20                       45.69
  FY02                                           21                        3.06
  FY03                                           10                       45.46
  FY04                                                                    36.87
  FY05                                           13                       23.83
  FY06                                           10                        6.76
  FY07                                            6                        0.00
  FY08                                            1                        0.00
  FY09                                                                     0.00
                            Total:               81                      413.11
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                            4                       21.54
  FY10                                            4                       17.68
  FY11                                            8                       39.05
  FY12                                            8                       48.00
                            Total:               24                      124.98




                                            24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not done.




                                      25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not done.




                                   26
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR

Program Background, Design and Objectives

Two grants were offered by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and managed by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.

The first grant in the amount of US$14,700,000 was signed on February 15, 1998. The
second, signed on June 6, 2005, was in the amount of US$9,500,000. It is worth
mentioning that the expiry date of both grants was extended to December 31, 2011.

The first grant emphasized an economic reform Program that aims to integrate Jordan
with global markets and to promote investment and growth and a level of foreign
exchange reserves that is sufficient to withstand major external shocks. The GOJ’s
strategy then called for promoting exports, attracting adequate FDI, and attracting
strategic foreign investors to some of the enterprises being privatized to enhance
efficiency and competitiveness. The first grant was also expected to support increased
competition; a modern, efficient, and well-regulated private sector; best-practice business
laws; and prudent privatization. Privatization, in addition to increasing efficiency and
investment, could earn large amounts of foreign currency, which would help strengthen
Jordan’s international reserves position.

The second grant was intended to (a) strengthen the investment climate, leading to new
investment and job creation; and (b) improve effectiveness and efficiency of the delivery
of public services and create a wider fiscal space. Activities for which the second grant
was given were the implementation of Programs to support privatization, private sector
investment, and public sector reform.

Assessment of Outcomes vs. Original Objectives

In an effort to integrate Jordan with global markets and promote investment and ensure a
level of adequate foreign exchange reserves, Jordan has signed several multilateral and
bilateral trade agreements, such as a bilateral investment agreements with the United
States; an association agreement with the European Union; accession to the World Trade
Organization; implementation of the Greater Arab Free Trade Area; and agreement for
the establishment of a free trade area with the United States.

By opening up the international market to Jordan’s products in terms of services and
commodities, Jordan’s production base was broadened and thus its exports have
increased subsequently. The two grants have contributed positively to Jordan’s debt level.
According to sources at Jordan’s Ministry of Finance, debt/GDP reached 110.3 percent in
1998, the same year of signing the first grant. Debt/GDP was 62 percent in October 2011,
toward the end of the grants, which obviously means that part of the privatization




                                            27
proceeds were utilized in debt write-off, accompanied by increasing Jordan’s exports in
terms of commodities and services.

The activities covered under the two grants have not only increased competition, such as
the privatization of the telecommunications sector, but has also attracted FDI and
strategic foreign investors, such as the expansion of Queen Alia International Airport
(QAIA) and the privatization of Arab Potash Company and Jordan Phosphate Mines
Company. For example, foreign investment in the expansion Program of QAIA alone
will exceed US$750 million, while completion in the telecommunications sector has been
intensified, for example. Jordan telecommunications sector now has three active mobile
operators competing with each other compared to only one operator in 1995. Such
competition has not only contributed to lower prices but to better quality of services.

The telecommunications sector has not only contributed to open market competition and
lower prices, but also to drastic increases in job opportunities.           While the
telecommunications sector directly employs over 5,000 employees, the indirect
employment generated is estimated to be fivefold – reaching 25,000, not counting the IT
sector.

The first grant has also played a major role in the regulatory reform area, on which about
US$3.2 million was spent. Under this area the Insurance Regulatory Commission was
established, assistance was provided in the preparation of a draft law for the transport
regulatory commission and in the electricity and mineral resources law. In addition to
these initiatives, assistance was also provided to the Jordan Security Corporation through
support in modernizing its equipment and infrastructure. The grant also helped in setting
up a legal and regulatory framework for the downstream petroleum sector through the
recruitment of a wide range of specialized experts and consultants.

Activities covered under the second grant have supplemented those financed by the first
grant. Technical assistance for the Executive Privatization Commission, the Ministry of
Planning and International Cooperation, and the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources have continued, which helped in creating efficient local officials capable of
dealing with privatization and PPP-related issues. The local staff of these entities (in
cooperation with foreign and local consultants) were involved in all stages of
privatization and PPPs – from Program identification and recruitment of relevant
consultancy services through the final stages of privatization and PPP transactions.

In addition, activities financed under the second grant helped not only in the completion
of some PPP transactions (notably the QAIA expansion), but also in identifying potential
PPP Programs. In this regards, thirteen feasibility studies were conducted and four were
selected for implementation. Some of these selected Programs encountered problems in
implementation beyond the control of EPC – some due to legal issues and others to
demands not acceptable to investors.




                                           28
Performance of the Executive Privatization Commission (EPC)

The Privatization Program of Jordan, which is handled mainly by the EPC under
Privatization Law 25/2000, ranks as one of the most – if not the most – successful in the
region and a model to be followed elsewhere, as rated by international agencies.

To date, seventy-one transactions have been successfully completed, including the
Government’s stake in companies in the Jordan Investment Company portfolio, yielding
over US$2.6 billion in privatization sales proceeds. In addition, the Program has
successfully attracted over US$1.8 billion in investment associated only with
privatization – in telecoms, water, transport, and other sectors. This amount does not
include investments associated with the PPP Program that is currently handled as well by
the EPC.

A major factor in success of the Program lies in the fact that implementation took care of
both the economic and social aspects of privatization – hence minimizing, if not avoiding,
any negative impact (e.g., labor issues, price hikes, private monopoly). Such impacts
were avoided through the regulatory measures that accompanied implementation of the
Program (e.g., establishment of telecoms, electricity, and land transport regulatory
commissions).

Most important of all, privatization has had a significant beneficial effect on employment,
creating new direct and indirect employment in the restructured sectors and privatized
entities. Furthermore, these formerly state-owned enterprises are no longer – as some of
them were – a continuous drain on the national budget, with the taxpayer financing their
losses. Rather, these privatized enterprises now contribute taxes to the national budget.
Political support, integrity, transparency, and efficiency are the main criteria behind the
witnessed success of the Program, which also safeguarded the rights of consumers and
investors.

The success of Jordan’s Privatization Program was mainly due to the well-planned efforts
of the EPC. Part of the proceeds of the two grants was used for capacity building, not
only for EPC professional staff but also for other officials in line ministries and agencies
involved in privatization and PPP. Such capacity building was achieved through several
local specialized workshops attended by all privatization and PPP-related officials in EPC
and other entities and through specialized individual training sessions outside Jordan.

In addition to capacity building, the two grants were used to finance experts, such as
those who prepared terms of reference for big transactions such as the Jordan Phosphate
Mines Company (JPMC) and the Arab Potash Company (APC). Both companies were
privatized as scheduled. Advisors for the JPMC privatization transaction were financed
by the first grant, while advisors for the APC privatization were financed from the APC
budget. So, the grant helped in accelerating the privatization of both mining companies –
one through full financing and the other through partial financing.




                                            29
Both grants were also used to finance restructuring activities or preparations for
privatization. The two grants have contributed to the restructuring and opening up of the
downstream petroleum industries, the restructuring of civil aviation, Aqaba Container
Terminal, phase one of a new management system for Government buildings, and
identification and preparation of feasibility studies for nine PPP Programs.

However, some advisory services financed under these grants were terminated without a
privatization or PPP Program. These included the grain silos Program, the postal services
Program, the axle load management Program, and the downstream petroleum sector
Program. Reasons for termination included contractual differences (for the downstream
petroleum industries Program) or changes in Government policy (for the grain silos,
postal services, and axle load management Programs).

In addition, the EPC has received several Arab delegations – from Iraq, Yemen, and UAE
– interested in learning about Jordan’s privatization experience in organizational set-up,
laws and regulations governing EPC functions and responsibilities, processes for
procuring consultancy services, and the restructuring and privatization of different
enterprises or sectors.

In general, EPC has made full use of the two grants in terms of capacity building for all
those involved in privatization, and a solid foundation for assuming leadership in public-
private partnerships (PPPs).

World Bank Performance

The World Bank performance in terms of supervising the grants and providing technical
assistance to the EPC were instrumental in the success of the two grants.

In terms of supervision, the Bank made sure that all procurement guidelines for
commodities, training, and consultancy services were in compliance with World Bank
rules and regulations. Such supervision has added to the transparency and credibility of
the Program. Knowing that procurement processes would follow World Bank guidelines
and remain under the supervision of such a highly reputable agency has attracted the most
efficient international and local consultants. This helped EPC to implement different
privatization transactions in a highly professional and efficient manner. The quality of
the consultancy services received under the two grants has also contributed greatly to
improved performance by EPC and other Government officials who worked closely with
these consultants.

The support that EPC received from the World Bank was not limited to procurement
procedures, but also included legal and technical advice. The views of the World Bank,
for example, on the draft PPP Law were extremely enlightening and could be considered
in the final drafting process if the Parliament returns the draft law to the Government for
modification.




                                            30
The World Bank, especially the procurement department, has on several occasions
advised EPC on the most efficient approach to procurement. For example, in the QAIA
Program – and due to the urgency of procuring the legal and technical advisory services –
the World Bank advised us to select such services according to the Consultants’
Qualification method. The World Bank was willing to accept EPC’s single-source
selection method for urgent and small transactions when EPC could demonstrate that the
preferred consultant is highly qualified as a training provider.

On several occasions, the World Bank sent specialized experts to help EPC. For instance,
Mr. Pierre Veiellescazes prepared a very useful concept paper on a PPP partial guarantees
fund, not to mention the assistance extended by the World Bank country officers Mr.
John Speakman and Mr. William Mako and their colleagues from the World Bank in
paving the way for introducing PPP in Jordan. The PPP strategy paper prepared by the
World Bank is one example of such assistance.

USAID Performance

USAID through its two grants in the amount of US$24.2 million has responded positively
to the Government’s reform Program. The objectives of the first grant were in
compliance with the Government’s reform Program. As mentioned earlier, the objectives
of the first grant emphasized investment, growth and achievement of a satisfactory level
of foreign exchange reserves. In addition, through their support for privatization, the two
grants have gotten the private sector more involved in economic and social activities and
helped in the creation of more job opportunities.

The flexibility allowed by USAID to the use of proceeds from these two grants played an
instrumental role in the Program’s ability to respond quickly to GOJ needs and demands.
USAID has given both the World Bank and the GOJ full freedom to utilize the proceeds
of these grants for all purposes so long as these are in line with the broad objectives of the
two grants. So EPC, benefitted from such policy and was able to recruit local consultants
for long terms to enhance the technical capabilities of entities such as the EPC, MOPIC
Energy, PTRC, and even the Ministry of Public Reform.

USAID has responded positively to requests from the GOJ and World Bank, and
approved extension of the two grants for an additional three years in order to facilitate
and help EPC complete important privatization and PPP transactions. During the
extended period, EPC managed to finalize many important efforts in terms of capacity
building, restructuring, and PPP-related feasibility studies.

USAID was supportive not only in providing grants to help both the Privatization and
PPP Programs, but also supportive in the procurement process. By appointing the World
Bank as manager of the two grants, USAID accepted the procurement guidelines of the
Bank under which all bidders can compete on consultancy services and commodities
financed under the two grants with no limitation, except for those excluded under the
rules and regulations of the World Bank. This brought full and open competition to
bidders, leading to the most efficient procurement process in terms of quality and prices.



                                             31
In other ways, the two grants provided by USAID helped Jordan’s privatization Program
to move forward and to realize all its achievements and to lay the foundation for Jordan’s
PPP Program. EPC highly appreciates this assistance and support.

Proposed Arrangements for Future Operation

Demonstrating its reform policy through the 2012 Budget Law, the Government
emphasized the importance of debt/GDP when it announced that this ratio will reach 65
percent by the end of 2012 and come down further to 62 percent in 2014. To achieve this
ratio, the GDP base during 2012 – 2014 has to increase in such a way that it would
exceed additional borrowing. Therefore, the GOJ should follow a policy in which most
of its investment Programs should be financed by the private sector through PPP. Hence,
the draft PPP Law should be given top priority in the Parliament, to be enacted as soon as
possible and taking into consideration most of the comments suggested by the World
Bank.

To get the private sector more involved in infrastructure investment, a long list of
Programs (i.e., a Program pipeline) should be prepared, including Programs included in
the General Budget that have PPP potential as well as new Programs to be prepared with
grants or other sources of finance.

To ensure Government commitment to PPP, specialized PPP units should be established
in all line ministries and other relevant Government agencies. In addition, specialized
training should be conducted for all officials in these units and other PPP-related officials.
Our experience with the World Bank was extremely fruitful. We believe the GOJ should
consider having the same relation with the World Bank regarding PPPs.

Lessons Learned

Over the course of these two grants, EPC has learned some important lessons. The first
and foremost is the importance of genuine commitment on the government’s part to
privatization and PPP. Without such commitment, nothing can be achieved. GOJ
commitment is the reason why Jordan’s Privatization Program achieved such dramatic
success. Through its Privatization Law, the GOJ demonstrated a real commitment to the
Privatization Program. This law also covers part of the PPP initiative.

Privatization and PPP should have a very clear strategy. The Privatization strategy
established and approved by the GOJ contributed to the success of the Program because it
sets a clear vision for the Programs to be privatized in terms of order and timing. PPP
should also have a clear strategy in order to succeed.

It is important for the privatization agency to have efficient local staff who can work
closely with external consultants. Consultants are good if their counterparts are good.
Hence, capacity building for local staff is a must and should be given top priority.




                                             32
The privatization agency must be able to respond quickly to consultants’ demands and
obtain timely government decisions. An entire transaction can fail if a decision needed
from the government takes longer than it should. To avoid such a situation, working
committees should be given a wide range of decision-making authority within committee
mandates.

A good external consultant is a must to ensure the success of a transaction. Therefore,
the procurement process should be based on full competition. The committee responsible
for selecting the consultant should be given full freedom of selection without any outside
pressure.

Enterprise restructuring, if needed, should be done prior to any privatization effort.

A feasibility study should be done before selecting a Program for PPP. Without a
feasibility study, efforts might go in vain if the Program proves at a later stage to be not
feasible.

To ensure success for any privatization or PPP initiative, it is very important that those
involved in the transaction should have no conflict of interest. Members of the Technical
and Steering Committees as well as members of the advisory services teams should have
no conflict of interest.


In general, the selection of procurement methodology depends on many factors,
including the scope of the services. If more than one selection method is possible,
first consideration should be given to a quality and cost-based selection (QCBS).




                                             33
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

From USAID Mission/Jordan

Jordan’s privatization program, which began in 1996, has been a key component of the
Government’s Social and Economic Transformation Plan. USAID/Jordan has assisted
the Government of Jordan (GOJ) in the privatization of state-owned enterprises through a
World Bank Trust Fund executed by Jordan’s Executive Privatization Commission (EPC)
(“Program?). Privatization of state-owned enterprises has supported gains in productivity,
efficiency, and income generation.

The Program has financed technical assistance and operating expenditures in support of
Jordan’s privatization program. In addition, the Program has assisted Jordan in the sale
of a number of industrial companies in the Jordan Investment Corporation (JIC) portfolio.
Major privatization/PPP transactions concluded or currently in process include the
following: Royal Jordanian Airlines (including a number of separate non-core
businesses); Jordan Phosphate Mines Company; Arab Potash Company; Queen Alia
International Airport; postal services; electricity sector (distribution and generation); agri-
business facilities; and Customs Department warehouses.

Jordan’s Privatization Program has become one of the most successful privatization
programs in the region, and is acknowledged by the World Bank and other regional and
international agencies as a model to be followed elsewhere. Preliminary evidence
indicates that more than twelve thousand jobs have been created as a result of
privatization.

Numerous transactions (including sale of the GOJ’s shares in 54 companies in the JIC
portfolio) have been completed, the most recent being a 60 percent share in the Central
Electricity Generating Company (CEGCO) and a US$750 million transaction to
rehabilitate, expand, and operate the Queen Alia International Airport.

Privatization proceeds amount to around US$2.5 billion, including US$152 million from
the sale of the GOJ’s stake in JIC portfolio companies.

The Privatization Program has successfully attracted an additional US$1.25 billion in
investments linked to privatization – particularly in the telecoms, water, transport, and
other privatized sectors.

Through EPC, the GOJ established a privatization process that is transparent, efficient,
and timely.




                                              34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


EPC Progress Reports
Aide-Memoires
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
Memorandum of Understanding
Modification of Assistance
Cooperative Agreement between the Bank and USAID
Grant Agreement (TF021517) between the Bank and MOPIC
Letter of Agreement (TF052183) between the Bank and MOPIC
Nilgun Gokgur and Roger Christen, “Impact of Restructuring and Privatizing State-
       Owned Infrastructure and Non-Infrastructure Enterprises in Jordan, 1994 – 2008,?
       Pohl Consulting and Associates, 4 June 2008.
World Bank, Financial Access and Stability: A Road Map for the Middle East and North
       Africa, 2011.
World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan,
       November 12, 1999.




                                          35
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33424
               35°E                                                 36°E                                  37°E                                           38°E                                39°E
  34°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         34°N




                      n
            Se anea
                r
              a
             er
       dit




                                                                                                       JORDAN
 Me




  33°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°N
                                       To                                     To
                                      Zefat                                 Damascus
                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                 Tiberias                                                                                                                                                                Baghdad

                                                       Um Qais
                                                           Irbid

                                                    IRBI D
                                                    IRBID                                                                                                         Ar Ruwayshid
                         AJLUN
                                                           Ajlun                 Al Mafrak
                                           River




                    JARASH                                         Jarash                                                                      MAFRAK
                                           n




                                                   Arda                                                            Mahattat al Halif
                                       Jorda




                                                   BALQA                    Az
                                              As Salt                                                                                                                                                          32°N
  32°N                                                                      Zarka
                                                                    AMMAN                    ZARKA
                                                                                                       Azraq ash
                                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                       Shishan
                                               Madaba
                       To
                   Jerusalem
                                           MADABA                           AMMAN
                                                   Dead
                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Al Jawf
                                           Al Mazra’ah

                                                                              -
                                                                       Al Qatranah
          To                           Al Karak
       Beersheba
                                              KARAK
                                               --
                                           As Safi
  31°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°N
                                                                                                       Ard
                                           TAFILAH                                                               as
                                  At Tafilah                                                                           Sa
                                                                                                                              w
                                     -
                                         Al
                                 Rashadiyah
                                                                                                -
                                                                                               Ba’ir                              aa
                                                                                                                                         n
                               Ash Shawbak
                                                                                          MA'AN
                                    Petra
                                                                      Al Jafr
                                                                                                                                                                     0       0         50 Kilometers
                                                          Ma'an

                                                                                                                                                                     0            25                50 Miles
  30°N                                     Ra’s an Naqb                                                                                                                                                        30°N
                                                                                                                                                           38°E                                  39°E

                      AQABA
                                 Ad Disi

  To
Nuweiba
                                                                                                                                                                         JO R D A N
                               Jabal Ram
               Aqaba           (1,734 m)                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
      aba




                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                   Al Mudawwarah
 of Aq




                                                                                                                        This map was produced by                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                To                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               Al B'ir                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Gulf




                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                        any other information shown
  29°N                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 To                                     Group, any judgment on the                       RAILROADS
                                                                                Al B'ir                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            35°E                                                   36°E                                   37°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
