RESTR I CTED
REI                                                                         Report No.  PA- 18#
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND. DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COLOMBIA
September 3, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVAIENTS
US$ 1                        - Colombian Pesos 17.20
Colombian Peso 1             = US$ 0.o58
Colombian Peso 1,000,000     0 US$ 58,140
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                           m 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                 - 1 metric ton   a 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                               - 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (k2)                          = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)           G 10,000 m2      = 2.47 acres
1 squi9re kilometer      = 100 ha         = 0.39 square mile
-  247.11 acres
1 liter                                   = 0.26 gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFF       - Agricultural Financing Fund
Caja      - Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
COFIAGRO  - Corporation for Promotion of Agriculture and Livestock
Exports
FEDEGAN   - Federation of Colombian Livestock Producers
FMD       - Foot-and-Mouth-Disease
GDP      l   Gross Domestic Product
ICA       - Agriculture and Livestock Institute of Colombia
IDEMA     - Agrarian Marketing Institute
LA?TA     - Latin American Free Trade Association
LDD       - Livestock Development Department
USAID     - United States Agency for International Development



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . .
I.        INTRODUCTION  .1... .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
II.       BACKGROUND  .1... .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
A. General .1... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .
B. The Livestock Sub-sector .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C. Animal Health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
D. Government Policies and Agricultural Services . . . . .    5
E. The First Livestock Development Project Loan 448-Co  .     6
III.      THE SECOND PROJECT .  . . . . . . . . . . . .                 8. . . . . . .  8
A. General Description . . . . . . . . . . .                  8. . . . . . .  8
B. Detailed Features.                                         9
C. Cost Estimates .11
D. Proposed Financing .13
E.  Procurement  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  A  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  14
F.  Disbursements and Auditing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
G.  Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
H.  Lending Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
I.  Financial Operating Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
IV.       MARKETS, PRICES AND RANCHERS' BENEFITS  . . . . . . . . . .  18
A. Markets and Prices .18
B.  Ranchers' Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
V.        ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
VI.       RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Colombia in January/February 1969. The report was prepared by Messrs.
J. C. Gerring, P. G. Nelson, C. M. Bell and J. C. Percival.



ANNEXES
1.   Government Policies and Agricultural Services
2.   Banking and Credit
3.   Loan 448-Co - Details of Investments
4.   La Costa - Capital Expenditure and Financing
5.            - Model for Beef Cattle Ranch Development
6.            - Financial Projections
7.   Los Llanos - Capital Expenditure and Financing
8.              - Model for Development
9.              - Financial Projections
10. Dairy Farms - Capital Expenditure and Financing
11.              - Model for Development
12.              - Financial Projections
13. Sheep Development Center - Capital Expenditure and Financing
14.                           - Financial Projections
15.                           - Flock Projections
16. Sheep Farms - Capital Expenditure and Financing
17.              - Model for Development
18.              - Financial Projections
19. Phasing of Investment and Financing
20. Cost of Technical Services
21. Project Cash Flow
22. Marketing
23. Economic Rate of Return
24. Organization and Management Organogram
25. The Agrarian Industrial and Mining Credit Bank
(Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero)
MAP



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        A livestock project in Colombia is appraised in this report.   The
Project is an extension of a development program started in 1966 when Bank
Loan 448-co of US$ 16.7 million was granted. Although coffee remains the
main earner of foreign exchange in the country, livestock accounts for over
half of agriculture's contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The
Government recognizes that continued economic growth is to a large degree
dependent on modernization of the livestock industry and that livestock pro-
ducts could become important export commodities.
ii.       Up to September, 1969, loans totalling about US$ 15 million were
approved under the first project by Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y
Minero (Caja) - the intermediary credit institution. These were extended to
about 630 operators - 530 beef, 90 dairy and 8 sheep. While the period is too
short to evaluate a livestock operation, progress has been good and it is
evident that the development plans being financed and implemented are soundly
based.
iii.      The proposed loan would extend the on-going first projects over a
four year period and would be directed at increasing the production of beef,
dairy products, and wool, with major emphasis in the North Coast region. It
is estimated that an additional 700 beef ranchers, 250 dairy farmers and 20
wool growers would be involved. Incremental investments would be similar to
those in the first project and would be principally for pasture improvement,
breeding stock, fencing, buildings, agricultural equipment and machinery.
To facilitate the development of a commercial sheep industry, the project
would establish a Sheep Development Center with breeding and training func-
tions.
iv.       Loans for farm development would be made by Caja at 14% interest
per annum for terms of 12 years, including grace periods of 4 years for beef
and dairy producers and 6 years for wool growers. Investments on each ranch
would be phased over three years.
v.        Caja - the Administering Agency - would be responsible for project
organization and management as was the case with the first loan. The Live-
stock Development Department within Caja would be responsible for the prepa-
ration and implementation of farm development plans. 'The technical staff
would be headed by a technical director, two regional chief technicians, and
a technical supervisor of a sheep and wool unit to be established in the
Livestock Development Department. Development plans prepared by the technical
staff and approved by the technical director would be the basis for loan ap-
provals by the Project Loan Committee.
vi.       Project costs are estimated at about US$ 44.1 million, of which
about US$ 29.6 million would be for farm development. The remainder would



be for technical services, incremental operating costs, interest payments
during development, and short-term finance for feeder steers. Except for
nearly one-half, of the cost of technical services, these items would be
financed by Caja and partcipating farmers.   Project costs would be financed
approximately as follows:
Amount       Percent
(USTM)
IBRD                            18.3           42
Caja                             9.5           21
Ranchers                        16.3           37
44.1          100
vii.      Project goods that could be ordered in bulk would be procured by
Caja through international competitive bidding. This would be fertilizers,
pasture seeds, weedicides, and fencing materials. Manufactured inputs for
which bulk procurement is not practicable and which are available either
locally or do not require import licenses, would be obtained through exist-
ing commercial channels in Colombia. The Government would enable all other
manufactured items of the type used as Project inputs to be imported by
Caja as promptly as needed. All livestock would be locally supplied except
sheep which would be imported.
viii.     Disbursements of the Loan would be made to the Agricultural Financ-
ing Fund (AFF), a special fund managed by the Banco de la Republica. Dis-
bursements would be made on the following basis:
-    75% of the amount disbursed by Caja for farm loans;
-    60% of disbursements made by Caja for goods and services
procured for the development of the Sheep Development
Center;
-    100% of the foreign exchange cost of technical services.
For goods purchased through international competitive bidding, payments would
be made directly from the AFF special fund to such foreign suppliers.
ix.       The ratte of return to the economy would be about 22%.  Participat-
ing livestock producers would earn about 20% to 25% of their incremental in-
vestments and would realize substantial increases in their net earnings be-
ginning with Years 7-10 when full farm development would be achieved.
x.        The second livestock project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 18.3
million for a term of 18 years including a grace period of 6 years. About
two-thirds of the Loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange component



- iii -
and the other one-third would be for local costs. The Borrower would be the
Government which would bear the foreign exchange risk. It would on-lend the
Loan proceeds through the Agricultural Financing Fund, Banco de la Republica
(Central Bank) to Caja at not more than 10.5% interest on the same amortiza-
tion as for the, Bank loan.



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia has requested a second loan to help
finance the continuation of its program of livestock development. This was
initially supported by the Bank with a loan of US$ 16.7 million (448-co),
1966. Results of the first project have been satisfactory and commitments
are more than a year ahead of schedule.
1.02      In connection with the first loan, a joint Bank/FAO mission visited
Coloimbia in March/April 1965. This mission assessed the potential of the
livestock industry and, within the framework of an overall development plan,
assisted the Colombian authorities to prepare a project suitable for Bank
financing. The outcome was a three-year development project, administered
by the Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero (Caja) embracing three
segments of the livestock industry; namely, beef cattle, dairy cattle and
sheep. This first application was appraised by a joint Bank/FAO mission in
October/November 1965. Because the proposed loan is a continuation of a
Bank project, a review of the first project is included in this report.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Colombia in January/February 1969. The mission was composed of
Messrs. J. C. Gerring (leader), P. G. Nelson, C. M. Bell (Bank) and J. C.
Percival (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Colombia, with an area of 1.14 million km , is the fourth largest
country in South America.  Though situated within the tropics (latitude 130N
to 4OS), its land surface ranges in altitude and contour from low-lying flat
plains to open highland savannahs and mountains which rise steeply to more
than 5,000 meters above sea level. In consequence, there are considerable
variations in climate and a wide range of ecological zones. Virtually any
kind of crop or pasture can be grown.
2.02      The population, increasing at around 3.2% per annum, is about 20
million. Economic growth (GDP) has fluctuated between 3% and 6% per year,
in real terms, during the last five years. At the end of 1968, average per
capita income was about US$ 287 equivalent.
2.03      Agriculture accounts for about 30% of GDP, 75% of total exports, 95%
of the food supply, and over 50% of the supply of industrial raw materials.
The sector employs about 50% of the Colombian work force. Coffee currently
accounts for 60% of total commodity exports, but because of market limitations



-2-
under the International Coffee Agreement, the Government places high priority
on diversification. Since 1958, growth of non-coffee agriculture has reached
a level of about 4.3% per year, due mainly to an expansion in acreage. Des-
pite this, only about a quarter of the land area is now used for agriculture,
including livestock production. While there is still much room for further
expansion, the real and most immediate need is to intensify production
methods through improved technology and credit, with the objective to outpace
growth in domestic demand and thus produce supplies for export. Moderniza-
tion, of the livestock sub-sector, and, in particular, the beef cattle sector
would make an important contribution towards achieving this objective.
2.04     Colombia's foreign exchange gap and the related problem of infla-
tion have been the most persistent barriers to sustained growth of the econ-
omy. Government policies aim to arrest the past rate of inflation and pro-
vide incentives for the development of non-coffee exports within the con-
straint of a tight monetary program. Attesting to a measure of success, prices
increased in 1968 by 6.4%, as compared to 8% in 1967 and 16% in 1966, and minor
exports are increasing at the target rate of about 20% per annum. 1/
B. The Livestock Sub-Sector
2.05      Output from the livestock sub-sector, over 80% of which is beef,
contributes about 17% of GDP. The cattle industry, in fact, occupies almost
90% of the land now used for the whole of the agricultural sector. This im-
pressive pasture resource, approximating some 30 million ha, gives some
indication of the potential for increasing production. Further vast areas of
both tropical lowlands and temperate highlands await development.
Beef Cattle
2.o6      The national herd is estimated at around 18 million head.   By rough
estimate, about 85% is beef and the remainder dairy cattle; combined beef/
dairy operations are common. The tropical regions of the North Coast (La
Costa) including the lower Magdalena and Cauca River Valley, contain most of
the country's beef cattle. In this area, as well as in the middle Magdalena
Valley, ranching is more developed than in other parts of the country. In
the tropical lowlands of the Eastern Plains (Los Llanos), ranching is still
at a more primitive stage and is based on the use of natural unimproved
pastures.
2.07      Since 1963, around 2 million cattle have been slaughtered annually
(these official estimates do not include subsistence killings, or illegal ex-
ports 2/). This offtake of approximately 12% reflects the present low level
1/   See the Bank's 1968 Economic Report, "Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Colombia"
2/   Exports for which the foreign exchange iB not surrendered to the Central
Bank.



- 3 -
of productivity, as well as the existing potential for a substantial increase.
An of'ftake of 20% would be a reasonable target.
2.08      Beef consumption per capita is around 20 kg per year 1/, and at
this level, Colombia has been consuming most of the beef it produces. High
consumer prices in relation to incomes have limited the growth in domestic
demand; also, producers' prices, averaging US$ 0.30 equivalent per kg live-
weight, are higher than most world market prices, which average around
US$ C.27. Thus, it is difficult to export under present conditions. Re-
cently, a more f'lexible exchange rate and a 15% export tax bonus 2/ have
improved the prospects for increasing exports. But for these to be
significantly ernlarged and sustained, a major improvement in the present
standard of ranch and herd management will be essential.
Dairy Cattle
2.09      About 3.5 million cattle contribute to milk production under a wide
range of climatic conditions. Methods of production and levels of output
vary considerably. In the temperate zones, dairying is more intensive with
European breeds, Holstein and Brown Swiss, predominating. In the tropical
regions, and particularly in the North Coast, Criollo/Zebu crossbred cattle
are used as well as beef cows which, in addition to rearing their calves,
are commonly milked once daily.
2.10      The more specialized dairy farms tend to be concentrated around
urban centers. In such areas, land values are high and competition from
cash cropping is considerable. Under these conditions, milk production using
existing methods is a high-cost, marginal enterprise. Population increases
have led to a growing consumer demand, and steadily rising prices have brought
about a considerable extension of the milk producing areas so that processors
are collecting milk from lower-cost producers over gradually increasing dis-
tances. The resulting high cost of transport is a critical factor in some
zones.
2.11      Milk production is estimated at around 2 million tons per year or
below 4 litres per day per cow in milk. This is a low average yield. About
half of the milk is consumed directly, largely in the raw state. Most of the
remainder is usedi for on-farm production of cottage cheese and butter, with
a small percentage (less than 5%) also going into powdered and condensed milk.
There is little, if any, control over quality standards.
1/   I'er capita beef consumption in South America ranges from 8 kg (Bolivia)
to 80 kg (Argentina).
2/ Exporters of goods, other than coffee and petroleum, are issued tax
exemption certificates equivalent in value to 15% of exports. These
may be traded at a discount or used after one year of issuance for
tax payments.



2.12      While there are no serious technical barriers to considerable in-
creases in production, economic factors until recently have imposed severe
limitations to expansion. Alternative use of land for high value cash crops
reduced dairying in some areas. In a few areas, the threat of compulsory
acquisition of farms as part of land reform programs acted as a deterrent.
Producer price controls in the face of rising costs gave little or no incen-
tive to raise output. In consequence of these forces at work, a critical
supply situation developed in the main consuming centers of Bogota, Medellin
and Cali, where population growth has been 6 to 8% per annum.
2.13      In May 1967, price controls were lifted in the larger centers.
This action together with a growing regional demand have provided a suitable
climate for introducing modern low-cost production techniques through an
extended credit program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would maintain policies which would encourage the expansion
of milk, beef and wool production.
Sheep
2.14      The sheep population is estimated at around 1.3 million.   About
two-thirds of the sheep are "Criollo', a native type upgraded to various
levels by crossing with Suffolk, Romney and Corriedale breeds. They are kept
by peasant farmers mostly in small flocks of up to about 20 head. Around
1,000 tons of coarse wool are produced annually and used mainly by the cot-
tage industries. The remainder is absorbed by the woollen textile industry,
which is mostly based on imported fine wools (7,000 to 8,ooo tons are imported
annually). Commercial sheep farming in the modern sense is virtually non-
existent, yet there are more than 2 million ha of highlands, currently unused
or only of marginal value for other purposes, which could be exploited.
C. Animal Health
2.15      When agricultural services were reorganized in September of last
year, responsibility for animal health was delegated to the Agriculture and
Livestock Institute (ICA). Supervision of vaccine production standards and
quality control is a specific responsibility of ICA, but present testing
facilities are inadequate. The manufacture of vaccines has been relinquished
by Government but production on a commercial basis has not been operating
long enough for performance to be assessed. Measures are being taken to im-
prove both the quality and quantity of vaccines produced as well as the over-
all facilities for disease control. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the Government would take measures satisfactory to the Bank to
improve the quality and increase the supply of cattle vaccines, and to improve
the overall facilities for disease control.
2.16      The four major animal health problems are:   foot-and-mouth disease
(FMD), brucellosis, tick infestation, and numerous internal parasites. On-
farm preventive measures against FMD vary considerably, from vaccination of
fattening cattle only to twice yearly vaccination of the herd. The recom-
mended practice of vaccinating every four months is seldom practised. For



-5-
this reason, in the proposed Project, assurances were obtained during nego-
tiat:Lons that all cattle on Project ranches would be compulsorily vaccinated
against FMD. Vaccination of heifer calves against brucellosis, as well as
prophylactic measures to control both ticks and internal parasites, are re-
ceiving wider acceptance. However, improved nutrition and herd management
practices are the priority needs to reduce losses and raise production.
D. Government Policies and Agricultural Services
2.17      The Government recognizes that development of the livestock industry
coul(d play a key role in achieving Colombia's objective of a sustained growth
in GI)P of 6% per year, in real terms. To this end, the Government has set
out to streamline its agricultural services, increase the volume of directed
crediit, and encourage the development of exports (Annex 1).
2.18      General measures to promote exports are a more flexible exchange
rate policy and the 15% tax bonus incentive for all exports, except coffee
and petroleum (para 2.08). More specifically, the Government has begun to
activrely promote meat exports through a semi-government lending institution,
Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agropecuario y de Exportaciones (COFIAGRO).
This Corporation provides finance for Indugan, a Colombian cattle company
parti.ally financed by IFC, and for exporters of agricultural products; about
80% of COFIAGRO's current portfolio is related to beef operations. Domestic
marketing of beef is also being improved; the Government in cooperation with
the USAID has placed special emphasis on the reorganization of slaughtering
facilities. In addition, livestock industry problems in general are under
constant review by the Federacion Colombiaha de Ganaderos (FEDEGAN), an asso-
ciation of livestock producers.
2.19      The abolition of milk price controls (para 2.13) has improved the
prospects for further development of the dairy industry. Colombia's member-
ship in the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) affects the wool
industry, since trade within this region is subjected to very low import
duties; Colombian producers at present receive no special protection or
support.
2.20      The taxation system, including the level of taxes, has been under
review by a high-level Government Commission and recommendations are now
being presented to the Government. Livestock enterprises are taxed in various
ways. While the total burden on the producer is substantial, net returns
provide a reasonable incentive for investments (paras 4.04 and 4.05).
2.21      The entire credit system, which is complex, is also under review by
the Monetary Board. Agricultural credit policy is being studied by the De-
partment of Planning. At present, the Caja and Banco Ganadero are the two
most important sources of credit to livestock producers (Annex 2, Table 2).
In adldition, conmercial banks are required by law to lend 15% of their de-
posits to agriculture including loans for livestock development. Another
form of credit commonly used in Colombia, known as "cattle-in-partnership",



-6-
is made available in the form of cattle for which the rancher provides pasture
and supervision. Profits are shared when the cattle are sold. This system
operates through both the public (Fondos Ganaderos) 1/ and the private sectors.
Although external finance for livestock development is available to supplement
domestic sources there is still an unsatisfied demand for long-term credit.
E. The First Livestock Development Project - Loan 448-Co
General
2.22      The first project, the loan for which became effective on November
16, 1966, had the primary objective of increasing the production of beef to
meet a growing domestic demand and to provide a surplus for export. The major
part of the project, involving 800 farms, was in the North Coast region. This
part of the country has the highest potential for increasing production as
well as being a logical outlet for beef exports at the port of Barranquilla,
which has slaughtering and shipping facilities. A smaller part of the project,
involving 90 farms to test certain low-cost techniques for ranch development,
was in a designated area of the Eastern Plains, where an extensive type of
ranching is still practiced.
2.23      Dairy sector investments were limited to pilot operations in the
Department of Narino (150 farms), in the Southwest region, and an area around
Barranquilla in the North (100 farms).   The high altitude area of Narino is
technically suited for the development of low-cost dairy manufacturing which
eventually could concentrate on powdered milk. To this end, the project aimed
to introduce improved pasture species coupled with modern management techniques,
such as those commonly practiced in New Zealand. A successful development along
these lines would mesh well with the needs of the major consuming centers,
which then could supplement their fluid milk supplies with reconstituted
milk in the off season. In the tropical zone around Barranquilla, where
mixed dairy/beef operations are common, the aim was to stimulate considerable
increases in output of both milk and beef through planned investments on
selected farms.
2.24      To determine the feasibility of establishing commercial-size sheep
operations, the project provided for the development of 35 pilot sheep farms.
2.25      To manage the project, a special Livestock Development Department
(LDD) was established within the Caja. This Department provides the bank-
ing iservices, assesses the creditworthiness of applicant borrowers, assists
ranchers in the preparation of farm development plans, and also supervises
their implementation.   The technical services are under a Technical Director
and three Regional Chief Technicians who were internationally recruited.
1/   Specialized livestock credit agencies established in most Departments
of Colombia and supported by public funds.



-7-
2.26      The total cost of this first project was estimated at US$ 28 mil-
lion. Of this, US$ 25 million was allocated for farm development to finance
such items as pasture improvement, fencing, water supplies, stock handling
facilities, farm buildings.and breeding stock. US$ 1.34 million was set
aside for technical services and the remaining US$ 1.66 million for financ-
ing machinery for contractors and equipment for dairy cooperatives. The
Bank loan of US$ 16.7 million covered 60% of the project cost, including all
foreign exchange costs (which amounted to about 33% of the total). The re-
maining 40% was shared equally by the Caja and participating ranchers.
2.27      As of September 30, 1969 a total of 630 loans had been approved,
committing loan funds equivalent to about US$ 15 million. This represents
about 75% of the US$ 20 million equivalent allocated for this purpose. De-
tails of the kind of investments made are set out in Annex 3. All loan funds
are expected to be disbursed by December 1970, one year ahead of the closing
date.
Lending Procedures
2.28      This project has been Colombia's first experience with such a
lending program for ranch development, based on loans with a term of 12 years,
and the loan amounts assessed on the basis of specific investment programs
for each ranch involved.  The loan processing procedure includes an estimate
of the expected impact of the plan on herd buildup, on the farmer's income,
and on his net cash position after payment of interest and principal for the
period of the loan. Participating ranchers have responded well to the tech-
nical service aspects, which combine on-farm inspection of expenditures with
advisory services and periodic review of development plans and problems. The
system has proven to be well conceived in terms of the problems at hand and
the project management has made good progress in implementing the project.
lBeef Cattle
2,29      Of the 602 loan applications approved by the end of 1968, 510 were
for beef production, 84 for dairying and eight for sheep operations. In the
Niorth Coast zone, where 367 loans for beef development were made, the ranches
vary widely in size, between 100 and 2,000 ha, and average 700 ha; on average,
these ranches carry 600 head of cattle.   In the Eastern Plains region, where
1143 ranch loans were approved, the average size is 5,000 ha carrying 700
head, with EL range from 200 to 30,000 ha. The average size of :Loans granted
for beef operations has been close to the original estimate of IJS$ 25,600.
2.30      The project has been in operation for a little more than two years.
From on-ranch observations, it is evident that the development plans being
financed and implemented are soundly based. This is particularly true in
the North Coast region. In the Eastern Plains insufficient progress has
been made to determine the feasibility of particular pasture establishment
techniques. To facilitate supervision in this area, the Bank has recently
financed the purchase of a small plane by Caja.



-8-
Dairy Cattle
2.31      In both the Barranquilla and Narino areas, the demand for dairy
loans has been less than expected. Demand for credit was initially weak be-
cause of low milk prices. Producer incentives have been restored by higher
prices in the Barranquilla area, but development in the Narino district is
inhibited by the very limited local demand.  However, where loans have been
made, the results are encouraging; higher per cow production has been
achieved together with improvements in carrying capacity. Furthermore,
project management has successfully demonstrated that these improvements
can be achieved without the feeding of concentrates, a practice which,
because of the ample pasture resources available, cannot now be economically
justified.
Sheea
2.32      The introduction of commercial sheep farming to Colombia, even on
the limited scale originally proposed, has met with some difficulties. These
difficulties were expected, considering the small amount of local expertise
in relation to the investment program (the eight loans issued average
US$ 53,400 equivalent as against the original estimate of US$ 43,000 equiva-
lent). Demand for loan funds has been low and the effort required from project
management has been considerable.   In April 1968, a shipment of 5,000 sheep
(Romey-Marsh and Corriedales) was imported under the project from New Zealand.
These sheep have proved to be highly adaptable to Colombian conditions. By
the end of the year, 3,000 of these had been distributed to project ranches.
Other Categories
2.33      Under the first project, provision was made for loans to dairy co-
operatives and to contractors for the purchase of heavy machinery. The size
of loans that could be made to cooperatives under Colombian law were, in fact,
too small to be attractive, and the anticipated demand from contractors has
not eventuated. Consequently, no loans have been made for either category.
III. THE SECOND PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would be a further stage of the long-range program of
the Government of Colombia to develop the livestock industry. It would extend
the existing project over a further four years (into 1973) and would continue
the present emphasis on increasing beef production in the North Coast region.
About 700 beef ranchers, 250 dairy farmers, and 20 sheep producers would par-
ticipate in the Project. On-farm development would generally be spread over
a three-year period.



- 9 -
B. Detailed Features
Beef Cattle
3.02      The Project would cover about 500 farms in the North Coast confined
to the Departments of Atlantico, Bolivar, Cesar, Cordoba, Magdalena and Sucre;
and 100 farms in the Departments of Meta and Boyaca in the Eastern Plains
region. A further 100 beef cattle farms in the Magdalena Valley as far South
as Neiva in the Department of Huila would be brought into the Project once
technical services are adequate for this purpose. Investments which have
proved to be necessary in the first stage would continue to be financed in
the second. These include fencing, water supply, stock handling facilities,
pasture improvement, machinery and equipment, farm buildings and breeding
stock.
Cattle Purchases
3.03      Under the first project, breeding cattle purchases were limited to
a percentage of the total cost of individual ranch development plans:   they
could not exceed 30% in the North Coast and 50% in the Eastern plains.
Ranchers have been pressing for an increase in these percentages and, in
practice, most plans have allocated the maximum allowable. The main concern
is to ensure that stock purchases are related to a rancher's surplus feed
situation and indicated managerial skill. Thus, it is proposed in the second
Project to base this allowable percentage on the productivity of the appli-
cant borrower's existing herd, with a maximum of 50% of individual ranch de-
velopment plans. If a ranch had only average production coefficients (wean-
ing rates, weight/age ratios, etc.) no further purchases of breeding heifers
would be financed until a significant improvement in productivity had been
achieved. On the other hand, if production coefficients are already well
above average, then up to 50% of the investment outlay could be used for the
purchase of additional breeding stock. The Project assumes an average of 30%
of total investment going for breeding cattle purchases. Assurances as to
the conditions under which breeding stock would be financed were obtained
during negotiations. In addition provision has been made for short-term
finance for the purchase of feeder steers for fattening.
Pasture Improvement
3.04      In the North Coast and Magdalena Valley areas cattle are grazed
mainly on artificial pastures of guinea, puntero, para and pangola grasses,
depending upon the environment. In addition to the application of fertiliz-
ers, a variety of techniques would be used to improve such pastures ranging
from surface cultivation and reseeding to complete renewal. In the Eastern
Plains region, where natural pastures are grazed, it is proposed to try out
alternative low-cost methods of introducing improved pasture plants. If
successful, such methods would be applicable on a wide scale. Trials of
these different methods are included in the Project.



- 10 -
Dairy Cattle
3.05      The major milk consuming centers in Colombia are Bogota, Medellin,
Cali and the urban complex of Barranquilla and Cartagena on the North Coast.
The proposed Project would include specialized dairy farms supplying each of
these centers (see Map). The existing project area in the Department of
Narino, which has already been enlarged to include the Cauca, would be further
extended to include the Department of Valle to cover a total of 100 dairy
farms. Cali is the chief consuming center in this region. A further 50 dairy
farms would be included in the North Coast to continue the first project in
that region. Two new areas that would be included in the Project are the
Ubate Valley, north of Bogota and strategically placed to supply the Bogota
market, and the Ceja Valley, where milk is produced for sale in Medellin.
The development of 50 farms in each region would be financed. Since the
Project areas selected are reasonably close to consuming centers, no special
problems of transportation are envisaged. To permit close Project supervision,
the 50 farms to be covered in the Ceja Valley would not be brought into the
Project before the second year.
3.06      Specialized dairy farming throughout Colombia is characterized by
the feeding of concentrates and by the use of soilage. 1/ In the more temper-
ate regions, despite the natural occurrence on much of the land of such valu-
able pasture plants as white clover, Yorkshire fog and cocksfoot, there appears
to be little if any appreciation of the part which grazing pastures would play
in suibstantially reducing production costs. More intensive use of pastures by
grazing for milk production would eliminate the need for both concentrates
and s3oilage at this stage of development. This has been amply demonstrated
in the first project. The objective would be to extend this practice and for
this purpose the Project includes pasture improvement, machinery, fencing,
water supply, farm roads, buildings, and breeding stock on a total of 250
dairy farms.
Sheep
3.07      It is clear that some modifications in the approach of the first
project will be necessary. Under conditions where neither the farmer nor
his men are familiar with the day-to-day operations of a commercial-size
sheep farm, the difficulty of successfully establishing and supervising such
operELtions has been evident. More emphasis must be given to the provision
of pIofessional services as well as the training of farm workers. It would
take a very long time and be expensive to develop a viable sheep industry,
based solely on imported sheep. It is, therefore, proposed to use a selection
of the 880,000 native Criollo sheep population. Of these, it is estimated
that about 30,000 young breeding ewes, with wool of suitable quality, could
be selected each year for grading-up with purebred Romney or Corriedale rams.
Such ewes could be purchased at from a quarter to a third of the price of
imported ewes.
1/   The growing of fodder to be cut green, chopped and fed to stock in sheds
or yards.



3.08      The P'roject includes the establishment by the Caja of a Sheep Develop-
ment; Center, covering approximately 1,500 ha. This Center would be used: (i)
as a breeding unit, of approximately 7,000 sheep, to propagate purebred Romney
and Corriedale rams for grading-up purposes; (ii) to train technicians as well
as iarm workers to help with the Project; and (iii) as a demonstration farm for
existing and potential participants in the Project. Investments in this Center
would include the purchase of imported foundation breeding stock, as well as
fencing, pasture improvement, stock handling facilities, buildings and machin-
ery. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Caja would ac-
quire the use of a suitable area of land for a period and on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.059     Management of the sheep development program, including the Center,
would be vested in a special Sheep and Wool Unit to be established within
the existing L:Lvestock Development Department of the Caja. As with the first
project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that a qualified techni-
cal expert, internationally recruited and acceptable to the Bank, would be
employed as the supervisor of the Sheep and Wool Unit for a period and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.10      Also,, the Project includes the development of 20 more sheep farms
to consist of :Iocally procured sheep, fencing, pasture improvement, machinery
and equipment, water supply, stock handling facilities and buildings.
C. Cost Estimates
3.11      Total Project costs are estimated at about US$ 44.1 million.  Of
this amount, about US$ 29.6 million is for actual on-farm investments based
on current prices. A 10% contingency allowance is included to cover unfore-
seerL costs and possible price increases. Incremental operating costs and
retentions during development amount to US$ 2.0 million and cover additional
expenses arising from the Project as well as the income foregone by the re-
tention of breeding stock, which otherwise would be sold for income. These
costs and investments have been assessed over the initial Project period
during which the ranchers' net operating income would be lower than the pre-
development levrel. Interest payments during the same period would amount
to about uS$ 7.8 million equivalent. Short-term finance for feeder steers
is estimated at US$ 3.6 million equivalent and the cost of technical services
at US$ 1.2 million equivalent. The direct and indirect foreign exchange
component of the proposed Project is estimated to be US$ 12.4 million or 28%
of the total cost. The buildup of total cost for major investment categories
is provided in the following table:



- 12 -
(Ps millions)   (US$'000 equivalent)  TPC-/ FEC-3/
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Per Cent
On-Farm Investment
Fencing                     30.5   10.2  40.7 1,794     600  2,394  5.4
Water supply                 9.3    9.2  18.5    547    541 1,o88   2.5
Corrals and crushes         14.2     -   14.2    836     -    836   1.9
Pasture improvement
and weed control          85.7   70.2  155.9  5,042  4,129 9,171  20.8
Equipment                   13.5   25.0   38.5   794 1,470   2,264  5.1
Building improvements       31.7    7.9   39.6 1,864    465  2,329  5.3
Access roads and drain-
age                        3.6    0.4   4.0    212     24    236  0.5
Breeding stock             144.2    2.5  146.7  8,482   147  8,629  19.6
Subtotal               332,7 125.4   458.1 19,571  7,376 26,947  61.1 27.4
Contingencies               30.4   15.1  45.5 1,788     888  2,676  6.1
Subtotal               363.1 140.5   503.6 21,359  8,264 29,623  67.2 27.9
Incremental Operating Costs
and Retentions During
Development                 34.0    -    34.0  2,000     -   2,000  4.5   -
Interest During Developmentl/  70.7  61.2  131.9 4,157  3,602  7,759  17.6 46.4
Short-Term Finance for
Feeder Steers               60.9    -    60.9  3,582     -   3,582  8.1   -
Techntical Services
Technical management          -     6.4   6.4     -     376    376  o.9
Local staff and training     8.4    1.7  10.1    494    100    594  1.3
Transportation               0.5    1.1   1.6     29     65     94  0.2
Administration               1.6     -     1.6    94     -      94  0.2
Subtotal                10.5    9.2   19.7   617    541 1,158   2.6 46.7
Total Cost             539.2  210.9  750.1 31,715 12,407 44,122 100.0 28.1
1/  Excluding interest on short-term finance.
2   Total Project Cost.
3/ Foreign Exchange Component.



- 13 -
3.12      Based on experience under the first project, representative model
ranches have been constructed to estimate costs of on-farm development (An-
nexes 4 - 18). The execution of an individual ranch development plan would
take about three years and the total investment period over four years. The
distribution of costs over this period is shown in Annex 19. Details of the
estimated cost of technical services are shown in Annex 20.
D. Proposed Financing
3.13      The total Project cost of US$ 44.1 million would be financed as
follows:
(US$ millions)
IBRD         _aja       Rancher     Total
(Amt. F(%)   (            (A.(%) mt.) (%)  Amount
On-Farm Investment            17.77  60     6.01   20     5.84  20    29.62
Incremental Operating
Costs and Retentions
dur:Lng Development             -     -      -      -    2.00 100      2.00
Interest during Development     -     -      -     -     7.76 l0o      7.76
Short-Term Finance for
Feeder Steers                 -     -     2.86  80     0.72   20     3.58
Technical Services             0.54  47     0.62   53      -    -      1.16
Total                    18.31  42     9.49  21    16.32   37    44.12
3.14      For on-farm investment, the rancher would on average provide, in
cash, labor or materials, about 20% of the estimated cost. The Caja would
advaLnce the balance of 80% of the cost of farm development as loans to ranchers.
About 60% of the total cost of on-farm investment would be met from the pro-
ceedls of the proposed Bank loan. (This contribution, together with the foreign
exchange cost of technical services, has determined the size of the proposed
Bank loan.)  Caja would contribute the remaining 20% from its own resources.
In addition, Caja would undertake to make available 80% of ranchers' short-term
capital requirements, which are associated with cattle fattening operations in
the early development period. It is estimated that these needs would amount
to about US$ 3,58 million equivalent. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Caja would provide, promptly as necessary, the local curren-
cy finds including the short-term capital required for the Project.
3.15'     In addition to their contribution to on-farm investments, ranchers
would bear in full the incremental operating costs and interest resulting
from the Project during the development period as defined in para 3.11. Dur-
ing this period, they would also contribute the value of stock retained for
breeding which, without the Project, would be sold for income.



- 14 -
3.16      For the Sheep Development Center, the Caja would provide, in cash
or naterials, 40% of the estimated cost. The remaining 60% would be made
available to Caja from the Bank loan. Appropriate assurances that Caja would
provide the local currency funds including the working capital required were
obtained during negotiations. (Annex 13).
E. Procurement
3.17      With the exception of sheep importations, procurement for the on-
going project has taken place through normal commercial channels, including
locEl representatives of international firms. This has not been wholly sat-
isfactory and project execution has suffered because items needed to intro-
duce, improved techniques have not been made available. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that procurement for the proposed Project would be
according to international competitive bidding for items suited to bulk
ordering; namely, fertilizers, pasture seeds, chemicals for weed control,
fencing wire and steel fencing posts. These goods would be procured by Caja,
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and on the basis of
projected demand for Project inputs. 1/ Where local manufacturers are in a
position to bid for these items, they would be protected by a 15% margin, or
the existing level of customs duties, whichever is less. Manufactured in-
puts, including machinery and equipment items for which bulk procurement
is less suitable, and which are either available locally or do not require
import licenses, would be procured through normal commercial channels. The
Gove-rnment wouLd enable all other manufactured items of the type used as
Project inputs to be imported by the Caja promptly as needed.
3.18      Some of the sheep required for the proposed Project are not avail-
able locally and would have to be imported.   Since the type and quality of
sheep suitable for Colombian conditions can only be obtained from certain
areas, international tendering would not be appropriate for livestock pro-
curement. All other livestock requirements would be procured locally. As
for Loan 448-co, assurances were obtained that livestock purchases, with re-
gard to quality, source and animal health standards, would be subject to the
approval of the Technical Director.
1/   The Caja is an established distributor of farm inputs and sells a wide
range of agricultural requisites (including imports) at competitive
prices, through more than 400 branches.



- 15 -
F. Disbursements and Auditing
3.19      Disbursements of the proceeds of Loan 448-CO have been linked to
sub-loans issued by Caja; 75% of sub-loans have been eligJible for reimburse-
ment by the Bank covering 60% of total on-farm investments. It is intended
to make the same contribution to on-farm investments in the proposed Project
(para 3.14), but the disbursement arrangements would be changed. Bank dis-
bursements of the proposed loan proceeds would be made available to the
Borrower through the Agricultural Financing Fund (AFF), a special fund managed
by the Banco de la Republica. Such disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) against payments under agricultural loans made by CaJa to participating
farmers (75% of payments made under these loans); (b) in respect of the Sheep
Development Center, for 60% of payments made by Caja fo,r goods and services
prociured for its development; and (c) for 100% of the foreign exchange cost
of technical services including transport equipment and training. In order
to comply with the procurement procedures referred to in para 3.17, part of
the amounts disbursed against agricultural loans would be used by the Borrower
for payments made to foreign suppliers for imported goods financed under such
loan,s; these payments would be made directly by the AFF to such foreign sup-
pliers out of the proceeds deposited by the Bank in a Special Livestock Ac-
count opened in the name of the AFF with the Banco de la Republica. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government of Colombia would
make the funds credited to the Special Livestock Account freely convertible.
3.20      Each individual farm development loan would normally be disbursed
over three years. With some producers being admitted to the program in the
second year of operation, disbursement of the Bank loan would involve about
a four-year period. The proposed phasing of investments is contained in
Annex 19.
3.21      Caja accounts as well as those of the Banco de Republica are pre-
pared semi-annually and are audited by the Government's Superintendent of
Banks annually. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Bank
would regularly receive copies of the Special Livestock Account to be kept by
AFF, and that all Project Loan Accounts would be audited annually in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
G. Organization and Management
3.22      The organization and management of the Project would be carried out
by the Caja. The Livestock Development Department (LDD) of the Caja, estab-
lished under Loan 448-CO, would be the Project authority controlling the tech-
nical and implementation aspects of the Project. A Technical Supervisor of



- 16 -
the Sheep and Wool Unit would be internationally recruited. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Caja would continue to employ four
senior technical experts 1/, acceptable to the Bank, during the period of dis-
bursement, and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to assist
in carrying out the Project.
3.23      The Technical Director, with the assistance of the Regional Chief
Technicians and the Supervisor of the Sheep and Wool Unit, would:
a)  be responsible for the execution of the Project;
b)  assist in the training of the technicians and outline their
(luties and responsibilities;
c)  report to the General Manager of the Caja through the Assistant
General Manager for Development; and
d)  be ultimately responsible for promoting the Project, assisting
ranchers in the preparation of individual development plans,
approving and recommending these plans to the Project Committee
as the basis for lending and for supervising the execution of
plans for which loans are made.
In addition the Technical Director would have the authority to approve the
agricultural specialists employed by Caja in the Livestock Development Depart-
ment as well as the duties and responsibilities assigned to them. LDD would
establish and mnaintain farm records for sample farms as needed for Project
evaluation. No loans under the Project would be made except on the recommen-
dation of the Technical Director. The Administrative Director of the LDD
would supervise the banking services necessary to maintain Project Loan Ac-
couwts, assess the creditworthiness of applicant borrowers, and collect and
record repayments. Assurances concerning the management of the Project as
set out above were obtained during negotiations.
3.24      The Project Loan Committee, established under Loan 448-co, would
rat:Lfy ranch development plans and would have the authority to approve all
loans recommended by the Technical Director (Annex 24). It would disapprove
loan applications only on the basis of the prospective borrower's credit-
worthiness, which would be provisionally determined prior to preparation of
the development plan. Financially and administratively, the Caja would pro-
cess the approved loans through its regional offices.
1/   The Technical Director, two Regional Chief Technicians and the Technical
Supervisor of the Sheep and Wool Unit.



- 17 -
H. Lending Operations
3.25      The proposed loan would be made to the Government.   The loan would
be for 18 years including a six-year grace period. This term would allow for
the complete repayment of all sub-loans including a possible slippage of up
to thtree years. The proceeds of the loan would be channelled through a Spe-
cial Livestock Account at the Banco de la Republica, the Agricultural Financ-
ing Fund (AFF). The Government would on-lend the loan proceeds to Caja at not
more than 10.5% interest but otherwise on the terms of the Bank loan. The
margin between the Bank lending rate and the Government on-lending rate would
contribute toward the foreign exchange risk, which would be carried by Govern-
ment. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Bank loan would
be mELde available to Caja on these terms and that the on-lending operation
through the AFF would be automatic. All creditworthy applicant farmers in
the project areas would be eligible for sub-loans which Caja would make on
the basis of approved farm development plans at an interest rate of 14% for
a term of 12 years. A four year grace period would be granted to beef and
dairy producers and, to allow for the slower returns from investments in
sheep farming, a grace period of six years would be granted to wool producers.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these terms would be availa-
ble to sub-borrowers. (In the ongoing project, sub-loans have been issued at
12% interest per annum, from which contributions to the foreign exchange risk
was limited to 2% per annum. Also, in some instances, the repayment period
required by Caja has been considerably shorter than 12 years.) Individual
farm development loans above US$ 100,000 equivalent would require prior ap-
provel by the Bank as would investments in the Sheep Development Center.
I. Financial Operating Results
3.26      The excpected cash f:low resulting from the Project is in Annex 21.
Incoming loan interest would more than cover Caja expenses in the Project
after an initial period, and repayments and interest together would cover
Bank loan debt service. The Caja would also be able to recover its own con-
tribution of US.$ 9.5 million with interest. Cash surpluses over and above
that required for debt service would be used for livestock development loans.



- 18 -
IV. MARKETS, PRICES AND RANCHERS' BENEFITS
A. Markets and Prices
4.o1      The additional production of beef, dairy products and wool that
would result from the Project would be marketed through existing channels
(par-as 2.08, 2.18 and 2.19). The marketing system would be capable of
handling the expected increased levels of output (Annex 22).
4.02      The rate of population growth in Colombia is such that substantial
increases in the levels of domestic demand for beef and dairy products can
be expected. With beef, the influence of this factor could be supplemented
by the potential for increasing the existing low level of per capita con-
sumption. At existing price levels the additional production of beef and
dairy products resulting from the Project would be fully absorbed by pro-
jected domestic demand increases. Current beef prices paid to producers of
about 5.50 pesos per kg liveweight provide adequate incentives to expand
production but are high by international comparisons. Although this situa-
tion should improve, the Project justification does not rely on Colombia
achieving increased export business. A price fall to 4.50 pesos per kg
liveweight to producers by Year-4 has been assumed.
4.03      The increased production of wool on project farms would be utilized
by the textile industry which currently imports the bulk of its wool require-
ments.
B. Ranchers' Benefits
4.04      The benefits to participating ranchers from investments under the
Project are projected in Annexes 4 to 18. The estimates are based on models
of two representative beef ranches, a dairy farm, and a sheep farm. Expected
results for each ranch at various stages of development are s=mmarized below:



- 19 -
At End   At End   Increase
Before     of Year  of Year   After 12
Development     6       12        Years
La Costa Beef Ranch (750 ha)
Total herd (head)                     820      1,370    1,440          76
Sales (head)                          114        227      305         168
Bet Operating Income (Ps'000)         155        278      378         144
Los Llanos Beef Ranch (5,000 ha)
Total herd (head)                     822      1,375    1,534          87
Sales (head)                           87        187      260         199
bNet Operating Income (Ps'000)         78        168      252         223
Dairy Farm (60 ha)
Total herd (head)                     110        167      167          52
Milk production ('000 litres)          37        120      120         224
Net Operating Income (Ps'000)          37        114      114         208
Sheep Farm (600 ha)
Total flock (head)                      -      2,155    2,738          _
Wfool production ('000 kg)                         6        8          -
Net Operatinig Income (Ps'000)          -        262      346          -
4.05      As these projections show, the increase in net income for each
ranch is substantial and the incentives provided by this prospect would be
supplemented by the increase in the herd value. The financial rate of re-
turn for proposed investments in the beef ranches is estimated at about 20%
per annum (Annexes 6 and 9). For 'dairy and sheep farms, the rate of return
on the proposed investments is 25% in each case (Annexes 12 and 18).



- 20 -
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.0:L     The following table summarizes important direct benefits that would
result from the proposed Project:
Before     After 8 Full Development
Item          Unit          Development   Years     (By Year 12)
(Amt.)      (% 1/
Beef production   '000 tons          25.3        62.5    69.o       173
Milk production   million litres      9.1        30.0    30.0       230
Wool production   '000 kg                       142.7   184.3       370 2/
Gross Sales       Ps'000,000        151.4       325.5   355.5       135
1/ Percentage increase over predevelopment levels.
2/ Percentage increase over Year-l.
5.02      The economic rate of return of the overall Project is estimated at
22% (Annex 23). This calculation is based on the aggregation of the incre-
mental cash flows from which were deducted transfer payments and the cost of
providing technical services. The rate of return as specified above, would
be augmented by a number of nonquantifiable benefits. The Project would
widen the introduction of superior livestock production techniques indirectly
through the demonstration effect. Further, the continued in-service train-
ing of local technicians as well as the grants proposed for training abroad,
would develop domestic expertise beyond its existing level.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  ProJect inputs suitable for bulk purchasing, i.e.,
fertilizers, pasture seeds, chemicals for weed
control, fencing wire and steel fencing posts,
would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in keeping with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement, (para 3.17);
(b) the Government would enable all manufactured items
of the type used as Project inputs to be imported
by the Caja promptly as needed (para 3.17);



- 21 -
(c) the Government would make funds credited to the
Special Livestock Account freely convertible and
available promptly as needed for direct payments
to foreign suppliers of imported goods financed
under the Project (para 3.19).
6.02      No withdrawals on account of agricultural loans to beef producers
in the Magdalena Valley would be made until adequate technical services, sat-
isfeLctory to the Bank have been made available by the Caja. The Caja agreed
furthermore that technical services would be made available to the Magdalena
Valley area only in so far as this would not adversely affect the adequacy
of technical services in the.other Project areas (para 3.02).
6.03      No withdrawals on account of the sheep program would be made until
(1) Caja has acquired the use of an area of land satisfactory to the Bank and
suitable for the establishment of the Sheep Development Centre (para 3.08)
and (2) Caja has established an adequately staffed Sheep and Wool Unit headed
by EL Technical Supervisor acceptable to, and upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank (para 3.09).
6.o4      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of UIS$ 18.3 million, for a term of 18 years including a 6 year grace period.



AI'iUEX I
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
A. Reorganization of the Public Services to Agriculture
1.    In September 1968 the Government of Colombia adopted a plan for the
reorganization of the public services to agriculture. Previously there had
been some 30 institutions serving the agriculture sector with considerable
duplication of effort and fragmented responsibility. With the objective of
providing a sounder basis for further agricultural development, the Government
adopted a revised structure involving 10 institutions in a three-tiered
arrangement. At the top is the Ministry of Agriculture which directs the
work of the operating institutions and other supporting agencies. At the
middle level is the Agriculture and Livestock Development Institute (ICA),
the Agrarian Marketing Institute (IDEMA), the Agrarian Reform Institute
(INCORA) and the Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (Caja). The
third tier comprises the Coffee Bank, the Livestock Bank (Banco Ganadero),
the Institute for the Development of Renewable National Resources (INDERENA),
a National MeteLology and Hydrology Institute, a Financial Corporation
(COFIAGRO) and an 'mrte*prise for the production of veterinary products
(Empresa Zcoprofilatica).
2.    Accompanying this reorganization was the creation of an Executive
Agricultural Committee for the purpose of making policy recommendations and
coordinating the work of the different regions. This Committee is chaired
by the Minister of Agriculture and consists of the heads of ICA, IDEMA, INCORA,
Caja, Banco Ganadero, INDERENA and the Coffee Growers Federation.
ICA
3.    This Institute has absorbed all agencies operating in the field of tech-
nical research and extension as related to non-coffee agriculture. In
addition to these functions, ICA is to provide the general services of quality
control of agricultural inputs such as seeds, vaccines) fertilizers and
pesticides and has been charged with the responsibility of inspection of all
forms of meat and milk for the domestic and export markets and, in addition,
is responsible for the regional veterinary diagnostic centers. It is a
general policy of the Government to encourage private enterprise; this ex-
tends to agriculture and the provision of extension services by private con-
sultants. With respect to the latter, ICA has assumed responsibility for
issuing licences to suitably qualified advisory personnel and providing over-
all guidance and supervision. The Government is eager to establish ICA as
inter alia, a central repository for extension services, but it would be
premature at this stage to attempt to judge their prospects for success.
However, there is little doubt that the organization is now faced with con-
siderably increased responsibilities. Although several top-level administra-
tors have recently been employed to consolidate this reorganized institute,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
at the same time it is proposed to withdraw the Rockefeller personnel
beginning this year. At the field level, although well endowed with
agricultural technicians, the staff of ICA is essentially research
orientated and have had little or no experience in the use of credit.
For sometime ICA will find it difficult to effectively provide and over-
see technical supervision on the scale envisaged by the Government.
IDEMA
4.    The IDEMA institute is responsible for orderly domestic pricing and
distribution of farm products as well as the general promotion of non-
coffee agricultural exports. Up until now IDEMA has focussed attention on
crop products only but is currently in the process of establishing a live-
stock committee which will consider all aspects of the beef industry - live
cattle as well as refrigerated, frozen and canned beef. In undertaking
this role, IDEMA will work closely with COFIAGRO (para 5) and will make the
policy recommendations previously made by the Federation of Colombian Live-
stock Producers (FEDEGAi). For the last few years, this organization of
livestock producers has been contracted by the Government to organize
exports of meat and cattle, make studies of the industry and provide re-
commendations on general lines for development. As much as FEDEGAN would
like to continue in this role and even increase its operational effective-
ness, the Government, however, sees FEDEGAN's role somewhat differently
and appears intent on restricting the Federation to conducting studies of
the industry. FEDEGAN will be represented on the livestock committee set
up by IDENa and only through this medium will it take part in making policy
decisions and exercising marketing control. With respect to dairying and
sheep production, IDE11A has done nothing so far. On the dairy side, it
intends confining its attention to the marketing of fresh milk only.
COFIAGRO
5.    COFIAGRO is a public company, created in 1966 for the purpose of
financing exporters of agricultural products and, in particular, exporters
of beef. COFIAGRO presently has a paid-up capital of Ps h0 million with
ownership in the hands of the Government (Ps 13 million), Banco Ganadero
(Ps 15 million) and INCORA (Ps 12 million). A 50% increase in paid-up
capital is expected in the near future.
6.    Some 80% of COFIAGRO's portfolio is in enterprises engaged in the ex-
port of beef; it is a major shareholder in INGRAL, S.A., a private company
which owns an abattoir and freezing plant located in Barranquilla and has
made a loan of Ps 5 million to INDUGAN, a cattle-in-partnership company par-
tially financed by IFC, for the sole purpose of developing that company's
export operations. In fact, INGRAL and INDUGAN are about to collaborate in
the formation of a beef export company.  On a trial basis, the two companies
recently negotiated an export contract with Spain for 2,000 tons of refrigera-
ted beef for which shipments commenced in March 1969. In fulfilling its role
as a beef exporter, COFIAGRO has assigned top priority to ensuring that beef
supplies are available to meet the requirements of export contracts. To this



Ai7E5X I
Page 3
end the corporation proposes to finance, by loans and equity participation
in cattle-in-partnership companies, a herd of some 150,000 head within the
next 1 to two years to enable contracts entered into by INGRAL to be met.
B. Fiscal Policy
Taxation on Livestock Production
7.    A high level commission has recently completed a study of the overall
tax system in Colombia and will soon present its recommendations to the
Government. There have been no indications as to the nature of the proposed
reforms, but it is reasonably certain that they will provide for greater
revenue in the framework of a more equitable and efficient structure.
8.    Taxation on livestock enterprises takes many forms and there is a-
wide variety of tax exemptions and deductions from income for people en-
gaged in stock raising and agriculture (with the exception of coffee,sugar-
cane, and bananas). Important income and wealth tax benefits designed to
encourage large and medium-scale investments in agriculture lapsed on
December 31, 1968, having been in effect since 1958. In view of the im-
pending tax reform, this situation is not necessarily significant nor a
reliable indication of present Government thinking.
9.    With respect to general income taxes, an important feature of the
determination of taxable income concerns the calculation of profits derived
from the sale of cattle. This is taken to be the increase in value during
the year of sale only. By excluding any value added in earlier years, the
law favors longer-term operations rather than short-term fattening within
any one year. Additional incentives accrue to such enterprises through
the exemption of livestock kept for breeding and raising from the net
wealth tax (in effect until 1970). Without these tax advantages the net
profitabiLity of cattle operations would be seriously reduced.
10.   Special taxes levied on the livestock producer are:
a)   On the consumption and export of cattle, levied at the point
of slaughter or export at the rate of Ps 50 per head for
males and Ps 100 per head for females.
b)   Selective inventory tax:  equivalent to the value of 4 kg
liveweight per head of male cattle over one year. For this
purpose the Minister of Agriculture sets an average price
at the end of each tax year.
At the Government's discretion, up to 50% of the two tax revenues referred
to above can be directed toward improving the livestock industry, for example,
to organize technical assistance, to promote exports, to regulate prices and
to enforce international health regulations. For these purposes up to 45% is
allocated to Banco Ganadero and up to 5% to FEDEGAN. A conservative estimateof



ANNEX I
Page 4
the yields from these two taxes amounts to about Ps 220 million. In 1968 the
amiounts received by Banco Ganadero and FEDEGAN were Ps 30 million (less than
Uli%) and Ps 6.5 million (about 3%) respectively. Budget allocations for 1969
will leave Banco Ganadero's receipts unchanged and will increase the amount
gcing to FEDEGAN to Ps 7 million.
11.   In addition, 1% of net investment in livestock, when that investment is
in excess of Ps 15,000 (effective through 1970) is levied au livestock
producers as a general inventory tax. There are no exemptions from this tax
as there are for the net wealth tax. The livestock producer has the alterna-
tive of paying the tax in cash or subscribing to shares of Banco Ganadero or
Fondos Ganaderos (para 2.21 of the main report). The latter alternative is
the one generally followed and these proceeds represent an important source
of funds for the two institutions.  The securities purchased are marketable,
but only at a substantial discount.
Incentives for Export Promotion and Import Substitution
12.   Since March 1967, tax credit certificates or bonuses have been granted
tc) exporters of all ccmmodities with the excepticn of coffee and petroleum,
equal to 15% of the value of exports. Given the existing prices and export
marketing facilities, this rebate enables export to take place on a limited
sc:ale. Short of increasing this incentive, lower cost production and/or a
more favorable exchange rate would be necessary to enable Colombian meat
exports to increase to any appreciable extent. Domestic price support for the
export market has been successfully operated for sugar and cotton, but the
existing marketing situation for beef, characterized by a multitude of pro-
ducers, middlemen and slaughterhouses would make control of such support
prices impossible. A fund for the promotion of exports, set up by the same
decree that established the 15% tax credit, is authorized to discount bills
and other documents on behalf of exporters.
13.   The Government's policy with respect to wool imports gives no preference
or protection to the local producer and is a reflection on the low priority
currently being given to the development of this particular infant industry.
Imiports of fine wool from the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA)
are subject to an ad valorem duty of 9 - 11% without the normal requirement
for a deposit with the Banco de la Republica. Imports from other countries
attract a duty of 15 - 17% and a peso deposit requirement of 70% of the value
of the imports and, as a result, accounted for only 2.7% of total imports in
1967.
C. Credit Policies
14.   Apart from the institutional problems, the Government is seriously con-
cerned with two aspects of credit to the agricultural sector, the operation of
Law 26 and the low level of interest rates.  Law 26 is an important source of
funds for agriculture; inter alia the law requires commercial banks, the Caja



ANNEX I
Page 5
and Banco Ganadero to lend 15% of their deposits for agricultural development,
in.cluding livestock. It is required that this money be made available to
producers at 8% interest for periods varying up to five years. The law has
been quite ineffective, however, as the Government has only been able to ens-are
that the funds are lent to landowners/farmers and has not been able to control
their use. For security reascns, banks have generally offered their resources
to their best clients, the one group with the least need for cheap short-term
credit and allegedly with the least predilection toward utilizing the funds for
agricultural development. The Colombian entrepreneur has, characteristically,
multi-interests and as often as not is reputed to have gocd if not better uses
than agriculture for short-term credit.
15.   Reform of Law 26 has been proposed by the Executive Agricultural Committee
and accepted by the 1Minister of Agriculture. It is now in the process of
being reviewed by the Attorney General's Department to determine how the re-
form can be nade effective.  It is proposed that the funds, instead of being
lent directly by the banks, be channelled through the Fondo Financiera Agrario
in. the Banco de la Republica from where they will be available for the re-
discount of supervised loans made to farmers for purposes approved by the
Fondo. Rather than the existing 8% rate of interest, the reform if adopted,
would increase this rate and provide for periodic reviews by the Monetary
Board.
16. In general, the Government is concerned about the low interest rates to
agriculture and intends to increase these rates to ensure better utilization
of scarce capital resources.  For the on-lending of external loans, it is
proposed that interest rates be such that the borrower will bear most, if not
all, of the foreign exchange risk.
D. Prices
17.   There is no control over the price of livestock or meat.   In May 1967,
price controls of milk in towns of 70,000 or more inhabitants were lifted for
a period of three years. However, the Association of Milk Producers (ANALAC),
together with the Department of Economic Regulations, agreed on a maximum
price per bottle of raw milk to distributors. There is control on the margins
charged for the processing, distribution and sale of milk and these are set
by the Department of Economic Regulation. The maximum margin for pasteuri-
zed milk is Ps 0.25 per 750 cc bottle and this covers all costs from point
of collection to factory sale. The maximum margin for distribution is
Ps 0.05 per bottle and for retail sales Ps 0.04 per bottle.



ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
BAIKING AND CREDIT
A. Introduction
1.    The Colombian banking system is characterized by governmental direction
of credit through a ccmplex of official rediscount facilities and reserve
requirements. While this has been successful, to an extent, in channelling
credit towards priority agricultural and industrial development, its rigidity
has hampered monetary control. Government is gradually introducing changes to
make the system more effective, both in directing credit to development sectors
and in controlling the monetary system.
B. The Banking System
2.    There are 16 commercial banks in Colombia, h semi-official banks, 6
foreign comnercial banks, 13 development finance companies and the privately
oaned, but naw closely controlled, Central Bank, the Banco de la Republica.
The Central Bank also has an 80% interest in the Banco Central Hipotecario
(Central Mortgage Bank).
3.    A list of banks and their total assets is given in Table I, attached;
the Government owned Agrarian Bank (Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero
- Caja) is much the largest, apart from the Central Bank itself.
4.    The Central Bank holds the national reserves, is the sole bank of curr-
ency issue, and is bancer for Government and for other banks.   Its assets
exceed the combined total of the commercial banks.   The Central Bank also
administers five special Funds, of which the two most important are the
Private Investment Fund (Fondo Inversiones Privadas), created in 1ebruary 1963
as a channel for foreign loans in the private sector (mainly industry and
export promotion); and the Agricultural Financing Fund (Fondo Financiero
Agrario) created in Mkay 1966 to provide supervised short-term credit for
agriculture
5.    The commercial banks have head offices in principal towns and many
branches; the development finance companies are mostly regional; Caja is based
in Bogota, the capital; and has 638 branches or agencies throughout Colombia.
So the country is well provided with banking services and general short-term
credit, though credit may not be easy to get in particular sectors (e.g.
cattle fattening) either through deliberate Government policy or the banks'
own choosing. Demand for short-term credit is intensified by reluctance of
those who need short-term financing for their enterprises, to use their own
funds fcr tho purpose. Actual and potential inflation discourages long-term
lending, though the development finance companies make long-term loans, mainly



LhNTEX 2
Page 2
industrial and sometimes associated with equity participation. Government
has slowed inflation somewhat in recent years (see Section F) and has
assisted long-term lending, notably for livestock development, with help
from AID, the Inter-American Development Bank and the World Bank. It is
generally true, however, that long-term money is scarce.
C. Control of the Banking_System
Reserves
6.    Since 1963, the Government appointed Monetary Board has had legisla-
tive control of the banking system; it has been increasingly effective during
the last two years.  It sets the proportion of bank deposits which must be
kept in reserve and not used for lending. This proportion was 33% at the
beginning of 1969, subject to investment of part of a bank's portfolio in
development (see para 8(i)) and to certain other requirements. The reserve
requirement rose steadily from 24% in 1964 to a peak of 34% between January
and May 1968. 1Most banks invest in development, as required for the 33%
reserve; without this investment, the reserve proportion is 37%. Of the 33%
reserve, 1% of deposits may be invested in Agricultural (and some other
specified) Bonds, and 3/4% in loans for special purposes (e.g. municipal or
reconstruction). All the rest must now be in cash or deposits with the
Central Baxk, in contrast to previous other exceptions. The Central Bank
provides statistical and information services to the M4onetary Board and a
Government Department, the Superintendency of Banks, ensures compliance and
regularly inspects all banks (including Caja).
D. Direction of Credit
Obligatory Investments
7.    The commercial banks (certain semi-official banks excepted) must invest
5% of their total demand deposits in Caja Bonds and another 5% in National
Development Bonds. They must also invest 25% of their savings deposits in
Central Mqortgage Bank Bonds, 22% in Housing and Savings Bonds and 10% in
each of three other obligatory investments, including Caja Bonds.
Selective Credit
8.    In addition to these specific obligatory investments, Government
directs credit to priority sectors, partly by requiring stated proportions
of resources to be invested in a particular way, partly by offering official
credit for approved purposes through preferential rediscount facilities. The
following is a broad description:
a)   Commercial Bank Credit
In order to qualify for the 33% legal reserve requirement
(see para 6), a commercial bank must lend 32% of its loan
portfolio (of whatever term) for development (certain semi-
official banks excepted). A commercial bank may include
as development:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(i)  an obligatory 6% of total loan portfolio in subscription to
six-month bills of the Agricultural financing Fund, currently
issued at 6% per annum interest, togethler with any voluntary
subscription to such bills;
(ii)  35% of all loans made under arrangements with the Agricultural
Financing Fund and certain other Central Bank Funds (see para
4);
(iii)  an obligatory 15% of demand deposits in lending for agriculture,
in addition to the above obligatory 6% subscription; this 15%
may include voluntary subscription to additional Caja Bonds
(maximum interest rate 6%) beyond the statutory requirement
(see para 7), and must include subscription to Caja Bonds to
make up any shortfall;
(iv)  any other short-term lending for agriculture, in addition to the
obligatory 15%;
(v)  35% of loans on warehouse bonds;
(vi)  industrial development loans and Industrial Finance Corporation
Bonds.
b) Agricultural and Development Rediscount
(i)  50% of development loans, beyond the 32% in (a) above may be
rediscounted with the Central Bank;
(ii)  65O of loans made by the commercial banks for agriculture
under the Agricultural Financing Fund Plan may be rediscounted
with the Fund;
(iii)  65c/ of loans made on warehouse bonds for agricultural products
in store, up to 80% of their value, may be rediscounted with
the Central Bank.
c)  Special Institution Credit
Certain specialized development lending institutions have exceptional
rediscount facilities with the Central Bank. I4ost significant is
the Ps 1,670 million revolving credit of Caja which may rediscount,
up to this limit, 100% of its loans with a term not exceeding five
years. Ps 1,200 million is Caja's regular quota and the rest a
special additional quota. INCORA also has a separate line of credit,
through Caja, for 100% of its agreed requirements; and the develop-
ment banks may rediscount loans not exceeding 10 years up to the
amnount of their paid-up capital. Various other institutions, having
lending policies Government wishes to encourage, also have rediscount



ARNEX 2
facilities, including the Livestock Bank, to a limited extent, and
the regional Livestock Funds (see para 15).
General and Special Credit
9.    The Central Bank provides for liquidity of the banking system through
general and special rediscount facilities authorized by the Monetary Board.
Rediscount currently provided is:
a) General Quota
Up to 15% of a bank's combined capital and legal reserves (with an
additional quota for certain small banking institutions).
b) Special Quota
3T of total current accounb deposits to take care of decreases in
current account balances; and up to 7% of special deposits in June,
10% in December, to take care of seasonal withdrawals.
c) Emergency Credit
Such emergency credit as the Central Bank may, in the circumstances,
approve to meet emergencies, e.g. a withdrawal of deposits.
Interest and Rediscount Rates
10.   a)  Interest Rates
(i)  The Monetary Board sets a maximum rate of interest on loans
made by current and deposit account sources. For general
lending, this is now 14%; for selective lending, lower rates
apply (see below). There is no maxi-mum on loans made from
other funds (including foreign loans). The development banks,
for example, charge 18% on long-term loans made from funds
provided by the IBRD. The maximum limit may be evaded if
a lending bank feels a higher rate is justified, e.g. by
requiring the deposit of part of a loan until it is repaid;
but evasion is not believed i-rdespread.
(ii) On loans made under Law 26 (i.e. the 15% of deposits which must
be lent for agriculture) the maximum short-term rate is 8%;
the rate for loans beyond one year may be up to 9% (loans beyond
five years are exceptional, but some loans under Law 26 have
been made up to 10 years).
(iii)  The major rates for warehouse bonds are between 9 and 145.
(iv) The maximum for Agricultural Financing Fund loans by the
commercial banks (including Caja) is 13%.
(v)  The maximum rate payable on savings deposits is 4%.   (In spite
of this negative real rate of interest, savings have continued
to rise. For example, deposits with Caja (which receives most



AIMEX 2
Page 5
of them) increased from Ps 890 million in 1966 to Ps 1,150
mi.llion in 1968).
b) Rediscount Rates
(i) The Central Bank's general rediscount rate is 3% below the rate
of the paper being rediscounted. For the Special and Emergency
Credits in para 9, however, the rate is generally 14% (16% for
the third percentage of the Special Credit).
(ii)  Caja used to be charged only 2% on drawings from its revolving
credit fund with the Central Bank; but from January 1, 1969,
the rate on all new drawings has been increased to L%. INCORA
enjoys the same preferential rate and so does the Livestock
Bank for a relatively small part of its portfolio.
(iii) The Agricultural Financing Fund rediscount rate to all banks
is 7%.
E. Non-banking Credit
11.   A source of capital for beef cattle inventories is an arrangement, quite
c(mmon in Colombia, known as "cattle-in-partnership", whereby a rancher
accepts cattle for grazing, provides pasture and supervision, and receives a
share of the profits wihen they are sold. The cattle are financed by the
private sector; and by Livestock Funds, for which finance is provided by de-
partmental and national governments and by the Livestock Banlk and Caja.
Cattle-in-partnerhiip is, in effect, credit in kind and is very important to
the Colombian cattle industry. vThile no figures are available, probably
between 20% and 40% of the national herd is owned in this way and a sub-
stantial sum, in excess of Ps 1 billion is involved. A usual profit sharing
is 60% rancher; h0% financier. IWhile the arrangement has the advantage of
not impairing the rancher's borrowing capacity, it is probably equivalent to
a loan with interest of the order of 15 - 20% (depending on the profit shared).
F. Government Policy
12'. Government has made efforts to bring inflation under control.
Wh&ile anxious not unduly to increase the cost of its own borrowing, it has
aimed to stimulate private savings by allowing interest rates to move upwards.
Towards the end of 1967, for example, the rate on IIortgage Bonds (issued by the
Central Mortgage Bakc) went up from 7% to 9.5%; and on Government issued
Economic Development Bonds, from 8.5% to 11%; accrued interest on both issues
is free of tax. The Central Bank was recently authorized to issue Ps 100
million of 1L% notes, freely negotiable and redeemable at a discount determined
by the Monetary Board from time to time.  Government also issued a special



ANNEX 2
Page 6
bond, to the Colombian Social Security Institute, with an indexed interest
rate to protect the Institute's income against inflation; the rate is 6% plus
70% of the change in the wholesale price index. Government has initiated a
plan to make better use of reserves for severance pay now held by public
employers; the plan puts reserves held by public, and possibly later by private,
employers into a National Savings Fund. These measures not only indicate
Government's attitude towards interest rates but also its continued efforts to
control the credit system.
13.   To reinforce fiscal and monetary measures Government, in 1967, imposed
drastic emergency import restrictions and granted tax concessions to exporters.
G. Review of the Credit System
14. The credit system is constantly under review by the Monetary Board and,
as stated in para 1, changes are gradually being introduced. The Department
of Planning is specially studying agricultural credit policy.  In particular,
Law 26 is being redrafted to make compulsory credit to agriculture more
effective. Law 26 credit now probably goes to favored bank customers who
have agricultural interests, and it is unlikely that :its use for agriculture
is too carefully confirmed. Compulsory credit might all be made available
through the Agricultural Financing Fund, which has improved agricultural pro-
duction by making credit available for better seeds, for fertilizer, pesticides,
soil preparation, weed control and other desirable annual inputs. Government
is also considering an increase in the permitted interest rate for Law 26
loans.
H. Effects of Government Policy
1'5. The effects of Government policy, including the import restrictions,
may be judged by the following.S
a) Whereas during 1966 (an inflationary year which precipitated a for-
eign exchange crisis) Central Bank net credit expanded by about 15%,
during 1967 expansion of credit slowed down but started to increase
again in 1968. The banking system's net foreign reserves recovered
substantially by US$85 million over 1967/68.
1/  Source:  INiF Consultation Reports of Aipril 1 and 19, 1968.



AI\1NEX 2
Page 7
b)  Ailthough expansion of Central Bank credit slowed during 1967, total
banking syster crodit(public and rirntu)incroasod by about 16%.    This
increase was supported mainly by private deposiTs with the commercial
banks (19% up), reflecting a stronger propensity to channel real
savings through the banking system. This tendency continued even
more strongly in 1968. Government action thus appears to have
prevented erosion of internal confidence in the peso, which previous
experience of inflation might have justified.
c)  Private sector credit growth slowed dom in 1967 with an increase of
13p compared with 24% in 1966 (in real terms 5% compared with 9%).
d) Specialized institution credit growth continued at roughly the same
rate in 1967 as in 1966 (increase of 18.3% in 1966, 20% in 1967),
reflecting Government's effort to stimulate priority development
(as described in para 8( c )). There was a notable steady increase
in rediscounts granted by the Central Bank to Caja, the largest
institution.
e) Nlew loans to agriculture have been increasing, in real terms, at
the rate of about 10% per annum since 1963.
f) The following have been the average percentage increases in the
National Cost of Living Index for Workers:
1966    -    16.7%
1967    -     7.0%
1968    -     6.4%.
g) The exchange rate against the US$ moved rapidly from Ps 13.50 to
Ps 16.04 in the year to March 1968 (increase of 18.8%); it has
since moved much more slowly to a current (April 15, 1969) Ps 17.20.
G. Conclusion
16.   The conclusion is that, despite the complexities of the credit system,
which it is seeking to simplify, Government is effectively controlling money
and credit and successfully channelling credit to sectors it believes deserve
priority.
17.   The significance for agriculture (including livestock) is that Government
recognizes the priority of the sector and will continue to favor direction of
credit to it. As a consequence, some short-term agricultural credit is likely
to continue to be available at less than market rates, or currently about 8%
instead of something over 14%. IThile this is encouraging to the producer who
is able to obtain credit on these favorable terms, it leads to some reluctance
to pay higher riarket rates for long-term agricultural credit, including
foreign financed credit that incurs a foreign exchange risk.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
18.   Attached Table 2 shows the trend of lending in different sectors from
1963 to 1967. The proportion of lending to agriculture (including livestock)
has risen slightly from 32% in 1963 to close on 34% in 1967 and is expected
tio have risen again in 1968. Lending to industry has increased markedly from
30% to 3570. Lending for conmercial and other purposes decreased accordingly.
It will be noted that lending for livestock declined sharply in 1965 (i.e.
before the first Bank Loan for Livestock became available). Government
deliberately encouraged a preference for agricultural crop lending for import
substitution. Lending for livestock has risen since and is likely to have
represented about 15TD of all lending in 1968.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
COLOMBIAN BANKS AND THEIR
TOTAL ASSETS
( September 1968 )
Commercial Banks                                 Col. $ Million         US$ Million
(@ Col. $17.00   US$ 1)
1.   Banco de Bogota                                 3,989                  235
2.   Banco de Colombia                               2,871                  169
3.   Banco del Comercio                              2,9459                 145
4.   Banco Commerci.al Antioqueno                    2,181                  128
5.   Banco Industrial Colombiano                       972
6.   Banco Grancolombiano                              401
7.   Banco de Occidente                                334
8.   Banco de Santander                                276
9.   Banco del Estado                                  240
10. Banco de Caldas                                    183
11.  Banco de la Costa                                 165
12.  Banco de la Sabana                                145
13.  Banco de Construccion y Desarrollo                 98
IL.  Banco de America Latina                            68
15. Banco Panamericano                                  85
16. Caja de Aborros del Circulo de Obreros              65
14j&532
Government Assisted Banks
1.   Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero     5,379                  316
2.   Banco Cafetero                                  3,279                  193
2.  Banco Popular                                   2,266                  133
.   Banco Ganadero                                  1,118                   66



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 2
Development Finance Companies (Financieras)
1.   Instituto de Fomento Industrial  (+)                    1,789
2.   CorporaciorL Financiera Colombiana                        905
3.   Corporacion Financiera Nacional  (*)                      467
L.   Corporacion Financiera de Caldas (*)                      352
5.   Corporacion Financiera del Valle (*)                      313
6.   Corporacion Financiera del Norte (*)                      171
7.   Corporacion Financiera Grancolombiana (*)                  75
8.   Corporacion. Financiera del Transporte                     61
9.   Corporacion Financiera de Fomento
Agropecuario y de Exportaciones                            40
10.  Corporacion Financiera de Occidente                        38
11.  Corporacion Financiera de Santander                        36
12.  Corporacion Financiera Popular                             31
13.  Corporacion Financiera del Caribe                          16
+     0overnment owned
*    ]3eing assisted by IBRD (Loans 451-CO and 53h-co)
Central Bank
Banco de la Republica                                  17,879          1,052
Mortgage Bank
Banco Central Hipotecario
(80'X owned by Banco de la Republica)                   3,396            200
Source
Fleport of the Superirtendency of Banks No. 330 of November 1968



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
BANKING AND CREDIT
Lending by Sectors
( Col . p Milii ion ) 1/
Sector                1963           1964          1965           1966           1967
Agriculture                1,152   16     1,379   17    1,549   18     2,029-Y 20     2,381   20
Livestock                  1,199   16     1,335   16    1.o66   12     1,366   14     1,462   13
Sub-total              2,351   32     2,714   33    2,615   30     3,395   34     3,843   33
Of which:
Caja Agraria        1,115         1,329          1,226          1,613          1,817
Banco Ganadero         78             87            129           185            241
Commercial Banks    1,158         1,298          1,260          1,597          1,785
Industry                   2,167   30     2,778   34    2,982   35     3,385   34     3,991   35
Commerce                   2,265   31    2,236   27     2,1450  28     2,553   26     2,777   24
Other                        471    7      1485   6       627    7       638    6       881    8
Sub-total              4,903   68     5,499  67     6,059   70     6,576   66     7,649   67
TOTAL                  7,254 100      8,213  100     8,674  100    9,971 100     11,1492 100
1/ Commercial banks plus Caja Agraria and Banco Ganadero.
Source: Monthly Bulletin of Statistics of National Department of Statistics
and information supplied by Caja Agraria. 
2/ Agricultural Financing Fund commenced operation.                                               r MN



COLO1BIA
FIRST LrTOCK PROJECT
Loan 44z-CO
Details of Investments
La Costa                       Los Llanos                   Cauca Narino                    Sheep                           Total
Amount                        Amount                        Amount                        Amount                          Amount    Amount
Quantity  (Pesos M)   %       Quantity  (Pesos M)   %       Quantity (Pesos M)   %        Quantity  (Pesos M)   %         Quantity  (Pesos M) (US$ M)    %
Total Ranch Plans approved           415     206.2   100.0         143      76.6   100.0          36     18.3    100.0           8      8.7    100.0           602     309.8     18.2   100.0
Fencing (Kim)                      5,128      18.7     9.1       1,347       6.9     9.0         149       .7      3.8         114       .7      8.0         6,738      27.0      1.6     8.7
Watering Facilities (No.)          1,476      15.8     7.7          88        .9     1.2           43      .4      2.2           2        .1     1.1          1,609     17.2       1.0    5.5
Corrals (No.)                        675       9.6     4.6         128       2.8     3.7           50      .1       .5           8        .1     1.1           861      12.6       .7     4.1
Machinery and Equipment (No.)        938      U.7      5.7         222       5.0     6.5          133     1.5      8.2          21        .7      8.0         1,314     18.9       1.1    6.1
Troughs and Salt Boxes (No.)       3,877       2.4     1.2         351       .3       .4          223      .1       .5         -          -      -           4,451       2.8       0.2    0.9
Buildings (No.)                    3,055      23.8    11.6         419       7.3     9.5         343      3.5     19.1          23       .6      6.9         3,840      35.2       2.1   11.4
Pasture Improvement (Ha)         242,369      58.5    28.4       29,619     15.8    20.6        8,183     4.6     25.1       1,709       1.4    16.1        281,880     80.3       4.7   25.9
Male Breeding Stock (No.)          1,496       9.3     4.5        1,461      7.4     9.7           34      .5      2.7         139        .3     3.5          3,130     17.5       1.0    5.6
Female Breeding Stock (No.)       28,833     47.7     23.1      17,828      29.6    38.6        1,152     4 .2    23.0       6,335       4.8    55.2         54,148     86.3      5.1    27.9
Other Improvements (No.)            -         8.7      4.2         -          .6      .8          -       2.7     14.8         -          -      -            -         12.0       0.7    3.9



ANNEX X
COLOMBIA
SECCND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
La Gosta (750 ha) - Capital Expenditure and Financing
YEFAR                 1                        2                       3                Total
Units     Pesos         Units     Pesos         Units      Pesos         Pesos
On-Farm Investment
Fencing - New       (1)                 3 km    15,000          3 km    15,00()          3 km    15,000         L5,000
- Repairs   (2)                 ]. km    2,000          1 km     2,00()         1 km      2,000          6,ooo
Water suipply       (3)                         13,000                  13,00()                     _           26,000
Corral and crush    (4)                            -                    20,000                      -           20,000
Pasture improvement (5)                60 ha    48,000         60 ha    48,ooo          80 ha    64,00o0       160,000
Weed control        (6)               200 ha    20,000        200 ha     20,000                     -           40,000
Equipme nt          (7)                         35,000                    7,000                     -           42,o00
Building additiorB                                 -                     10,000                  4o,ooo         50,000
Breeding stock:
Heif'ers 0 Ps 1,500                LO       60,000                  6o,000                      -          120,000
Bull.s  @ Ps 7,500 (8)              3       22,500          3       22,500                      -           L45,000
Contingency (10%)                               21,500                  21,500                   12,000         55,000
TOrAJ                                      237,000                 239,000                  133,000        609,000
Financing
Caja loan              80%                     189,600                 191,200                  106,4oo        487,200
Rancher's contribution 20%                      47,400                  47,800                   26,600        121,800
Ranchar's contribution provided by:
Earnings                                   103,900                   76,300                  62,600
Less: Net cash surplus                      (56,500)               (28,500)                 (36,000)
-   Q7,400               4~~~7,oO0               2b,bOO
Purchased Steers
Cost of purchased steers               60       91,500         60       87,000         60        82 800
Caja loan              80%                      736200                   900620
Rancher's contribution 20%                      18,300                  17,400                   16,560
(1)  Ps 5 per meter.
(2) Ps 2 per meter.
(3) 3 points X Ps 7,000; piping and tanks @ Ps 5,000 (alternative windmill).
(4) 2/3 rds x corral and crush @ Ps 30,000.
(5) Ps 800 per ha (including clearance and fertilizer).
(6) Ps 100 per ha.
(7)  Discs @ Ps 12,000; weed cutter Ps 13,000; 6 salt boxes @ Ps 500; dip (2/3 X Ps 15,000); weed sprayer Ps 1,300;
miscellaneous Ps 2,700.
, a) AdditiLons for increased herd.



ANNEX 5
COOIINBIA
SEGDND LIVE.S3TCC PROJECT
La Costa (750 ha) - Model For Beef Cattle Ranch Developrent
0
Year        Without          1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8         9       10-20
Developrsnt
5H5ED IOMPOSITION (end of period)
Cows                                        300            353       399       403       402       426       460        460       460       460       460
Bulls - 5%                                   15             18        20        20        20        21        23         23        23        23        23
Calves                                      150            165       212       259       282       281       298       322        322       322       322
Heifers (1..? Yrs)                           75             75        83       106       130       141       141        149       161       161       161
Heifers (2-3 Yrs)                            70             70        71        80       103       127       138        138       146       158       158
Steers  (1-2 Yrs)                            75             75        82       106       129       141       140        149       161       161       161
Steers  (2-3 Yrs)                             70            70        71        79       103       126       138        137       146       158       158
Steers  (3-4 Yrs)                            66             66        66        68        59        51        31        -         -         -         -
TITAL                                   821(1)         892     1,004     1,121     1,228     1,314     1,369     1,378      1,419     1,443     1.443
ANIMAL tNITS (A/U)                            639           695        760       819       892       962       987       988     1.025      1.043     11043
PURCHASED STEERS                               -              60        60        60       -         _         -         -          -         -         -
ANINAL UNITS                                   -            755       822        879       879       879       879       879       879       879        879
CARRYINC CAPACITY (2)'                       (750>         (860)     ( 970)   (1,050)   (1.050)   (1.050)   (1.050)   (1.050)    (1,050)   (l.o0o)   (1.o50)
iUiCHASI  (No)
Heifers                                      -              4O        40
Bulls                                         3             6          6         4         4         4         5         3          3         3         3
Purchased Steers                             -             60         60        60        -
DEaTHS (No)
Cows                                         18             18        18        16        12         8         9         9          9         9         9
Bulls                                         1              1         1         1         1        -         -         -          -         -         -
Heifers (1-2 Yrs)                             5              5         4         3         3         3         3         3          3         3         3
Heifers (2-3 Yrs)                             4              4         4         3         2         2         3          3         3         3         3
Steers  (1-2 Yrs)                             5              5         4         3         3         3         3         3          3         3         3
Steers  (2-3 Yrs)                              4             4         4         3         1         2         2          1         1         1         2
Steers  (3-4 Yrs)                              2             2         2         1         1         1         1
TO EAL                                   39            39         37        30        23        19        21        19         19        19        20
FURCHASOD 3TELhS                                -              4         3         2
SAI..; (Io)
.uil 2-s                                     28            28        35        41        59         59        63        63        68        6L         6'
bulls                                    2              2         3         3         3         3         3          3         3         3
heifers                                  6             7          7         7         8        10        12        14         14        14 14
3u J-plu  heifers                            11            -         -          _                   -          6        44        414        52        o3
iteers (2-3 Yrs)                             -              -         -         -         19        50        93       137        136       145       1,6
Steers (3-11 Yrs)                            65            64         64        65        67        58        50        31         -         -         _
iG] L  114    101       109       116        156       180       227       297       265        2d2       305_
PUL,3ri: Azji 57Ti                             _              56        57        58        _-                            -          - _  _
ThC:-U41[CL C012FICIENTS (t)
r;ortality                                    6             6          5         4         3         2         2          '         2         2         2
-ftective celvirg rate(3)                    50            55        60         65        70        70        70        70         70        70        70
2ulirJ  rate - cows                          10            10         12        12        15        15        15        15        15         15        15
- heifers                       10            10        10         10        10        10        10        10        10         10        10
- bulls                         15            15        15         15        15        15        15        15        15         15        15
Yl,--hction rate(Saless  H erd) 0'4)         13.9          12.3      12.2       u.6       13.9      14.7      17.3      21.7      19.2      19.9       21.1
jcckir rate (Tar ha; Nerd     Area)           1.1           1.3       1.4        1.6       1.6       1.8       1.8       1.8        1.9       1.9       1.9
LIi N _SIG (Kg per head)
St-rs ('-3 Yrs)                              -              -         -         -        400       420       440       44l0      440        550o      14o
Steers  3-4 Yrs)                            400           400        400       420       420       440       440       440       440        44O       I-,G
.ull cows/heifers                           320           320       320       340        340       360       360       360       360       360        360
3slos  e  k,20                                            420       420        430       440       450       450       450       450        450       l;50
Fesos Fer kiloM (5)5.5                                      5.25       5.0       4.75      4.50      4.50      4.50      4.50      4.50       5.50      L.50
(l) La Zoata project ranches are in various stages ol development up to belanced herds at full stocking.
i lr oomparitive purposes, and to compensate for development which would continue wiLthout the project,
a balanred herd of 300 cows has been assumed as the pre-developsent model.
(2) Ass=ning pisture improvenent in Annex 4.
(3) C;.l1 birth rate x survival rate (100 - mortality rate),. weaning rate or effective calving rate.
(4)  cxtraction rate from breeding herd only (excludirg purchased steers).
(5) GO, .as  fall to expected on-fanm export price.



. FLUtI IA
SL, ):;O . l a.: Si. .?
Lu :.ost.: (750 Ia) - Financ ial: r,eittioc
/Fssos '0131
YAi.         :.icno,           1 t       72        3        4         5                                                10        11       il       13-20
deve I op:rbent
jAL-S
-r ':-, 2                                                                                         ~6?.                       2 R7,      n.-  -  -  -  ,  1 2.R. 9 3 InO 30 8  '  107.9
Steers (30- 4   I                           11.0.8        138.4     128.0     129.7    126.6     11L.8      09.0      61.4
Culls                                        64.5          63.2      73.5     83.6     lO8.,     117.?     127.6     138.9     138.,     136.9     180.5    140.5     1.0.5     L5o.5
Surplus helers s Ps 1,300                   18.2           -         -         -         -        -         7.8      57.2      57.2      67.6      81.9     81.9      81.9      81.9
Total -alue of herd sales                 223.5         197.6     201.5     213.3  ) 269.2     327.2     Ll.5     52d.d     i65.8     893.6     531.3     531.3    531.3     531.3
Purchased steers                             15.2(1)      117.6     111.0    110.2
Total income                              Z3d.7         315.2     315.5     323.5
OPBRAkrl8 IN S.S
Fixed
Salar; 2s. 26.                                           28.8      28.8      28.8      35.2     35.2      41.6   41.6        41.6    47.6     ht.6       h  1.6      11.6   41.6
Variable                     Ps per AU
Operation, repairt
and maintenance            30-Lo         19.2          20.9)                                          ( 32.6(2)   36.9(2)   41.0(2))
Bull replacement             35            22.L          2L.3)     68.5      73.7      80.3      86.6   ( 34.5      35.9      35.9   ) 104.3     105.3     104.3     104.3     104.3
Veterinary                   25 (3)         9.6          17.4)                                          ( 24.7      25.6      25.6
faxes anl other  (5%) (4)                  45. o.6                 1.9        S.1      5,8       6,1       6.7       3.0       7.2       7.1       7.1      7.3       7.3       7.3
Total herd operating costs                 81.0          96.0     102.1     107.6  ) 121.3      127.9     140.1    157.0     151.3     153.2     153.2     153.2     153.2     153.3
CoSt. of     ed steers (5)                    _            91.5      87.0      82.8
Steer fate   lnexpenaea        30             -             1.8       1.8       1.8
Total Opsrating Cost                        14.0        189,3     190.9     192.2)
Net operzating incomre                      154.7         125.9     124.6     131.3     147.9    199.3     278.5     381.8     314.1     340.1     378.1     378.1     378.1     378.1
Less: shcrrt-tsrm      rest (12%)           -             8.8       8.5       7.9
loan Interest       (15%)             _            13.3      39.9      60.8      68.2      59.7      51.2     42.6      34.1      25.6      17.0       8.5       -
loan repaysant                         -            -         -         -         -        60.9     60.9      60.9      60.9      60.9      60.9      60.9      60.9
Total Debt Service                          -            22.1      48.3      68.7      68.2     120.6     112.1    103.5      95.0      86.5      77.9      69.4      60.9
Net incom after debt aervia.                154.7         103.8      76.3      62.6  )   79.7      78.7     166.3    278.3     219.1     253.9     300.2     308.7     317.2     378.1
Rancher's contribution r7nj                   -            4 47.54   147.8)  ( 26.6)
Net cash position                           158.7          56.4      28.5      36.0
FI   IYAN L RET URN
Net operattng income                        154.7         125.9     125.6     131.3     157.9     199.3     278.5    381.8     311.1     350.4     378.1     378.1     378.1     378.1
Net income riithout development(7)    l   S   h.7         144.7    131 7     12h.6     111.7     11. 7     114 7     114.7    1ll.7      114. 7   1lL7      11l.7     114.7      1.7
Increnental net inconm (8)                    -          ( 18.8)   ( 10.1)      6.7     33.2      85.6     163.7     267.1     199.5     225.7     263.5     263.1     263.A     263.5
Rancher's contribution (6)                     -         ( 47.4)   ( 57.8)   ( 26.6)
Loan funds                                     _         (189.6)   (191,2)   (106.4)
Not incremental cash flow (ranch) (9)                    (255.8)   (249.1)   (126.3)     33.2     84.6     163.7     267.1     199.5     225.7     263.4     263.4     263.5     263.5
I-creeental net cash position of rancoler (10)  -        ( 8d.3)   (106.2)   ( 88.6)   ( 35.0)   ( 36.0)    51.6     163.6     104.5     139.2     185.5     194.0     202.5     263.5
Sstimated Financial Rate of netur- 21%
(1)   Profit from cattle-in-company.
(2)   Operation, repair and  iaintenaxce rising from Ps 30 to Ps 33 Year 6, Ps 36 Year 7, Ps Lo Year d onwards.
(3)   Veterinar, expenses, without development, Ps 15 per AU.
(c)   Nainly cattle inventory tax.
(5)   See Annex 4.
(o)   .anconer's co-tribution in cas., iabor ac mte riEds, 203 of capital expenditure, -xciading zontributLoo L. short-term f,ra;ncing
of p-cnaned steers (less t.ia: one year).  i c Aresx h.
(71   hoc iLcoss oicnoat  clopmene, adjustec .or vp-ecLed fall in cattle sale price.
(8)   Difference beteem net income :.itl and :host deselopm-n. (adjusted for prize change).
(     B) 3asis for caluluatll,-, -eit-,ed firn.rnci c rit   retumn.
(13)  Differzcnce bec-een e3tinated C.us:1 poeiio:1 :IEta ur. bitnoit do-eIr-n:rn.



ANNEX 7
COL4OUB&
SEOaND LIVZOCK PROECT
Los Lianos (5,000 ha) - Capital Epsnditure and Financing
YEAR                   1                      2                     3                 Total
Units     Pesos       tlhits    Pesos        units    Pesos           Pesos
On-Farm Investment
Fencing - New      (1)                           _            6 kmn  33,000         6 kmn  33,000          66,000
- Repairs   (2)                          _            1 km    2,000         1 lm    2,000           4,000
Water supply        (3)                          -                    7,000                 7,000          14,000
Corral and crush   (4)                        10,000                10,000                    -            20,000
Pasture improvement (5)                          -          250 ha  56,ooo        350 ha   79,000         135,000
Equipment,         (6)                         7,000                36,000                  7,000          50,000
Building additions                               -                                         25,000          25,000
Breeding stock:
Heifers 0 Ps 1,200                   100   120,000                                          -           120,000
Bulls   0 Ps 7,500 (7)                 6    45,000                               -                       45,ooo
Contirgency (10%)                             18,000                14,000                 16,000          48,ooo
TOTAI,                                    200,000               158 000               169,000          527,000
Financing
Caja loan             80%                    160,000               126,400                135,200         421,600
Rancher's contribution 20%                    40,000                31,600                 33,800         105,400
Rancher's contribution provided by:
Additional cash                                -                    3,500                21,100
Earnings                                    56,500                28,100                 12,700
Less: Net cash surplus                     (16,500)
40,000                31,600                 33,800
Purchased Steers
Cost of purchased steers               60     91 500         60     87 000         60      82,80
Caja loarn            80%                 7                                                66,240
Rancher's contribution 20%                    18,300                 17,400                16,56
(1) Ps 5.5 per meter.
(2) Ps 2.C) per meter.
(3) 2 points @ Ps 7,000.
(4) 2/3 rds x corral and crush @ Ps 30,000.
(5) Ps 225 per ha average (own seed after first year).
(6) 1/3 tractor @ Ps 70,000; discs @ Ps 12,000; trailers 0 Ps 8,000 (not all farmn zequire equipment;
most use it for additional fannirg purposes) plus dipa (Ps 15,000); 6 salt boxes (Ps 500);
miscellaneous Ps 2,000.
(7) Additions for increased herd.



0C-.0..C0C0HCC.     CC                  C>.      -HCCC.                    0>CC>0C     C         CCCOC,CCCSC.O0
O&CC-40H0'Ofl     .4  0          0       LC       -CCC 4.HCCHC.  CA        0-4.CCCCC H  .4       CAOUCCCA.O0
-          CCCCCCCCO                       CA               'C               CA        CC
C,               C,CH,A-C      -          -                                                         CC.
o                     00.-C  C             0        CCC      .4H.44.4.4CACA            O4CACC),-.CH           Cfl0CfC0CCO0             -S
OC-4C>CC           CCCI           0       tIC      -4a-4.4-4OCA                0a0CC.CC   CC         CCOCJCOCCCUCO            -a
C0C      -4  ON   0   CC.        C                -                CA
I   I  -      I   I                   I                         0
00              CA
OCCOCOCO,         .4  4         0                 -4H-44-4.4OCA              04,-4CCAC   CCC        'n0'AOCICCCCCO           4
C--CA         C                 -               CA         C-- -4,-COO  H           'OHH.-C.-C
*   C         I                                             0
I,                                                                                                                                CC-C CA         CCC
00. ONCOC--CA C   C  .4          0       .rC         IJ4SHCCCCA              CO-a  C--lACe  0.      00.010-40
NC            C                 ,-C             'A         '0     CCCI  Ot          CO.-CHH
a    -40            -          I                   I      C                                     -                0
C(.i CHC--.AC   u, r-         0        C-                                  H4H    .00  C.-        CAOCIC0CA40             .4
Co           0Cc4 HO..C,-4 0  C.- IC-C    C                 H               0          I0I   C-CA C            CCHHHH
HHHH       -\ 0    S  I -        I  I                          I            I     -    I
OCOCISNCHC-   CA     C--        0        C--                   a  0          r-.aO  CACA
-       0                      C                 -               CA                 -4             C-\200CAH0        0000-4
HHH              C   C -       I   C                          I           C      -4            HHHH
I j
NOHC     4   H  0       , 0         4        '0H4'n-4CACAH-4                   -4-4             COHHHH
C                 H                          4     HCA                               2000.4
4  N   HHH                      H          C                          I           C      H   *                         HO             c.E
H             H                                                                                                              IC
H    4N                        8       OC
4Ifl  H     CCC H4          0        -40      OH.4CA.4CACA H      CA     CfCCAC   .4            CC-CO 010U'COCO      00-4
C         CC      0                                   CC-C CC CCC    .0  HH            8N-              C
4   NH   H        H  C       C  H       C                                          I I                                '-40
0          0                       0                '0      0               4          0        'A C   'A      CCC.-IHH                         U        S
   0        .0.4 C.         C. H C C         :'AOOCA0.o         oo'A 
-CC,C'ACC'AUC'AOO         C'nCCC    0             C'A0O'A00            COCA
Cd                       C.  'A  -C
CC CCC                                                                                                      -4CflCC  a  CC   C   CC C.
                          CC.-CCCCCC
C.               .0  CC  CC
CC  .047CC. C.   CC,C4..C.C                          --C
C. 7CC-C C.C.Cb                  CC--CC C-                           -,-.      -CC.L                               C,C,  CCCC --7       C.4    'C
C. HO C..*.. CC<CCCC                          A   CCHCCC CC                 CC    fI' C.                            CCC'HCCC   A                 -   C
A                                                     -CC'           ,                C. C. CCC.* CC  A
-CCCC-rA               IC                 CCCCC,                 C7CC*CCC C-.



ANIIEX 9
COLOIMIA
ECOaND LIVI'TOCK PRO.ECT
Loa Lianoa (5.020 6) - Financinli Prcjection
YEAR            Without        1         2         3        4         5         6         7        8         9        10        11        12      13-20
d.s1 opMrent
3teer- (3-L Yrs)                                  -          -         -         -       25.2      60.9     140.2     153.1    153.1     153.1     167.9     17?.0     131.5    ldL.5
Steers (1-5                                     100.0      100.0     102.0     102.6      99.6     79.3      59.0      L8.0     51.7      51.7      51.7      57.2      60.9      62.7
|ui11s                                           58.9       58.9      58.9      68.2     80.6      89.6     115.6     171.3    121.2     125.6     127.1     171.5     128.5    128.5
7lrplas hoifr   a Ps 1,200                        -          -         _         _         _                            8.4     22.8      33.6      12.0      15.6     .5.6      .6.6
Total val-e    herd ..ales                    158."      158.9     160.9     170.8  ) 205.4     229.     314.8     330.8     351.8    361.0     388.7     410.3    i,1        .71.c
Sla 0ised steer.                                 9.4(1)    104.5    104.5      99.0  )
Total income                                    .           .
.3i? i111 COISTS
r'alarlos                                      28.8       28.8      28.8      28.8      35.2     35.2     41.6       41.6      41.6     L1.6      L1.6      41.6     41.6      11.5
t.irIable                   Ps per Al!
Ocmration,rairs
-nd  dhIstevenc-          30-40              21.6       25.0)                                         ( 34.9(2)    :19.4(2)  45.4(2))
Sull r-placsr- nt           35                 25.3       29.2)     76.7      81.1     86.4      92.4   ( 37.0       38.3     39.7   ) 116.2     117.7     118.0     116.7     113.0
Veterinary          (3)     25                 10.8       20.8)                                         ( 26.4       27.3     28.3
races -nd othor (5%) (1)                       4.3         5.2       5.3       5.6      6.1       6.4       7.0       7.3      7.8       7.9       8.0      0.3       d.2       8.0
Total heSd op!rat.rtg costs                   90.7       10.0      IO.o     118.5  J  Z27.      i34.0     146.9    153.9     162.8     165.7    167.3      167.6    157.5     107.1
Cost of psrchsosd ,leers (5)                      -         87.0      87.0      82.8
Stfer 'at'i n3T. enpenroc     30                  -          1.8       1.8       1.8
Total O eratvijg Cost                          90.8      197.8     199.6     203.1
Dqt                         (122)tirS lrlcons    77.5       65.6      65.8      66.7      77.7     95.8     167.9     176.9     189.0    198.3     221.1     22.27     251.)     253.7
Less: sho.:t-t,i];iTnterest (125)-                         8.4.      8.4       7.9
lan initrest        (1)                   -         11.2      31.2      69.6      59.0     54.8      46.4      38.0      29.5     21.1      12.7       6.2       -         -
loan repaI. ent (6)                       -          -         -         -        -        30.2(6)   60.2      60.2      60,2     60.2      60.2      60.2      30.2
,otal 2ebi Se,l,ic                             -          19.6      39.6     57.5      59.0      85.o     106.6     98.2      89.7      81.3      72.9     61..      30.2
.1 t icme afte- debt .ereico                     77.5       46.o      26.2       9,2  )  18.7      10.8      61.3      78.7     99.3     117.0     168.5     178.3     221.7     253.7
-nchern. contribJtion ;7)                        -         (40.0)    (31.6)   (33.8)
lcash positio                                  77.5         6.0     (5.6)     (24.6)
F1710171AL OSTLIRNS
L0 oper-ating il-Ot                              77.5       65.6      65.8      66.7     77.7      95.8     167.9     176.9    189.0     198.3     221.1     242.7     251.0    253.7
iet i..nc  withoUt develop-ent(8)                77.5       77.5      77.5      68.7     60.3      60.3      60.3      60.3     60.3      60.3      60.3      60.3     60.3      60.3
Ina-.3mntal net incore                                      I 7)  _  1 1   ( l1.7)  ( 2.0)  17.4   J5.5     107.6    llb.b     12b.7     136.3     Jbl.1     182.1    191.1S    1Y'.
-.l.nc,e'n, ronotethution  (7)                    _       ( 10.0)   ( 31.6)   ( 33.8)
Loaf s                   _                                (f60.0)   (126.1)   (135.2)
N-t iso-ee-ntal  nh fl      hanh) (10)            -       (211.9)   (169.7)   (171.0)    17        35.5  JS     6     107.b l  12d.7     136.3     111.1     1Y2.,     1 71.6  -T.iTT
Ioc,e'oooal noeL Dsah 215  Sin of   ranorer .(11)  -         .5( 7.)  ( 82.9)  ( 93.3)  (61.6)   (19.5)      1.0      18.1     39.0      56.7      88.2     110.0     151.1 1'3.1
Estfrterd Fim.nciel Rate of Return 12%
.:   Pro:atfrens cattle-in_-oopao,y.
Operatioh, repair a-  -ain.tenanne ricing froe Ps 30 to Ps 33 Year 6, Ps 36 Year 7, Ps 10 Year 8 onwarda.
(3) Voternsi. y e,p,0sec, aithoat derelop-net, Ps 15 per AU.
... tiaily cattlr   --ventory ta.
(5) See Anr.er 7.
(6)  'qual a-talnonts Years 6-11; half instalnent Years S and 12.
i7!  Sa -cor's oorltrib.tion in caah, labor and -aterial., 20% of napitr.1 e.penditare, excluding c-otributitn to  hort-ter   finencig
o- purcha-ed steers (las than one year).  See Annes 7.
:le-  -oo-e  , lhot d.eelop,ent, adjusted for e..pected fall iP cattle .aie price.
(.1  Diffsren-- beLceen net inno:e with acd withoat developrept (adjueted for prime nhifge).
(1)  Basis for calcalasting esti.ated finuncial rate of return,.
(11) Differeoci betwreen e.tintated nash p:,sitioc with and o.ithost develepcent.



ANNEX 10
COLOMBIA
SECOD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Dairy Farm (60 ha) - Capital Expenditure and Financing
YEAR               1                       2                      3               Total
Units    Pesos         Units     Pesos        Units     Pesos        Pesos
On-Farm Investment
Fencing (l)                          440 m     2,000        440 m      2,000        40 m      2,000        6,ooo
Water supply (2)                               2,000                   2,000                  2,000         6,000
Access roads and drainage (3)                  4o,000                 6,000                   6,000       16,000
Pasture irnprovement (4i)              9 ha   26,100          9 ha   26,100          9 ha    26,100       78,300
Equipment (5)                                 12,000                 16,000                     -         28,000
Building :improverents                           _                    5,000                  20,000       25,000
Breeding ;tock: (6)
Heifers @ Ps L,500                 8      36,000          7       31,500                    -           ,
Bulls   @ Ps 15,000                1      15,000                                -                      82,500
Contingency (10%)                              9,700                  8,900                   5,600       2J4,200
TOrAL                                    106,800                  97,500                 61,700       266,ooo
Financing
Caja loan            80%                      85,400                  78,000                lO,LOO       212,800
Farmer's contribution 20%                     21,400                  19,500                 12,300       53,200
Farmer's contribution provided by:
Earnings                                  30,200                 35,300                 50,600
Less:: Net cash surplus                   8,800                  15,800                 38,300
TOTAL                                      21,400                 19,500                 12,300
(1) Ps 4.5 per meter.
(2)  Including 1i troughs @ Ps 500.
(3) 0.5 km @ Ps 20/meter; 1 km drainage @ Ps 3/meter; 1 bridge @ Ps 3,000.
(14) Ps 1,20)0 per ha plus fertilizer on remaining pasture to irnprove fertility.
(5) Forage harvester Ps 10,000; Trailer Ps 8,000; Silo Ps 6,000: Electric fence Ps 2,000; Dairy equipment Ps 4,000.
(6) Additions for increased herd.



ANNEX 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Model for 60 ha DaizDr Farm Developrment
0
YEAR              Without       1        2        3        k        5       6-20
development
HERID CCMPOSITION (end of year)
Cows                                        50          58       66      69       70       70       70
Bulls                                        2           3        3       3        3        3        3
Calves                                      33          33      41       50       55       56       56
Heifers     (1-2 Yrs)                       12          15       15      18       19       19       19
Heifers     (2-3  I )                       11          11       14      14       17       17       17
Young bulls (1-3  T )                        2           2        2       2        2        2        2
TOTAL                                    110         122     ill      156      166      167      167
Animal Units (AU'                         77          89      100     106      111      111      111
Carrying Capacity                         75          99      108     117      117      117      117
PURCHASES ( No)
He if e rs                                  -            S        7      -        -        -        -
B3ulls                                      -            1       -        -       _        _        _
D_ATHS (1I'o )
Cows                                         3           3       2        2        1        1        1
Calves                                       4           4       4        4        6        6        6
Heifers                                      2           2        2       2        2        2        2
TOrAL                                      9           9       8        8        9        9        9
SALES (No)               Ps per, unit
Ciull co ..              1,500               6           6       6        7       10       lh  14
bul 1 s             1,800               1           1        1       1        1        1        1
heifer.,            2,000               1           1        1       1        1        1        1
Bull calves ( L week)      100              13          13       13      17       21       23       24
Heifer calves (C,-i Yr)    500               3           -        -       1        3        7        7
TOTAL                                     24          21       21      27       36       66       07
MILE PRODTIIN 1  ' Liters)
Total produ-.ri An (thousands)              36.5        41.1    62.1     8i1.7   106.2    1ll.2    120.1
Production                               1,200       1,350   1,500    1,700    1,900    2,000    2,100
TECHNICAL COLF' .. ",isS (V
Calf birtn ra e                             65          65       70      75       80       U0       80
ilortality   - calves                       10          10      10       10       11O      10       10
- cows                          5           5        4       3        2        2        2
-heifers                        5           5        4       3        3        3        3
Culii-tg -   - cows                         12          12      12       12       15       20       20
- heifers                      10  (reduced to 5 when heiCers sold from calf crop)      5
- bulls                        As required
Cows in . k                                 50          50       58      62       67       67       67
Average daily milk production
per co1: - l' 'rs                          4.o         I.5     5.0      5.67     6.33     6.67     7.0



COLDOS BA
a2ECOI  IVES1OCK 0 C  WoECT
Dairy Farm (60 ha) - Financial Projaction
(3'esoo '000)
YFAR               Without       1        2         3                  5        6         7        8         ?                11        12      13-20
developmnnt
aA183
Cull s                                       12.5        12,8     :p.8     1i.3     128.5      2L.6     2.6      24,a      24.5     21.e      2u.8     2L.5     21,8      2h.8
Bull calves                                  1.3         1.3       1.3      1.7       2.1      2.3       2.L      2.L       2.4      2,4       2.4      2.4       2.,      2.4
Heifer calves                                1.5          -        -        3.5       1.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5
Milk                                        51.1        57.5      66.9    118.8    13.8      160.2     168.1    165.:     165.1    168.1     166.1    168.1    168.1     166.1
rotal incrae                              Bc.? PiL             1c1.0 1   35.3 1    7    1.2  132.8   190.-    198.Ol   1B8..              190.d     198.0    195.5     19B.d
OPERAPINr COSrS
ldages                                       25.0        25.0     32.0      39.0     39.0      h6.o     46.0     b6.0      16.0     h6.0      h6.o     16.0      46.o     16.0
Tractor operating                            -           1.0       6.o      6.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0     12.0      12.0
Repairs and waintenance                      1.0         2,0       5.o      5.o       6.o      7.0       7.0      7.o       7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0
Fertilizer (1)                               -           -         -        -        12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0      12.0     12.0
Weteina ry         (2)                       1.9         2,7       3.0      3.6       3.9      3.9       3.9      3.9       3.9      3.9       3.9      3.9      3.9       3.9
Taxes anc other (5$)(3)                      1.4         1,'       2.3      2.6       3.6   _1.0         4.3      1.0       h.0      1.0       1.0      4.o       4.0      1.0
Iotal Oprating Costs                       29.3        35.4    h15.3     55.1      76.5      84.9     61.9     54.9      8a4.9     1.9     841.9     84.9      81.9     84.9
Net operating intome                         37.6        36.2     52.7      76.9     94.7    105.9     113.9    113.9     113.9    113.9     113.9    113.9     113.9    113.9
-I,ess: loan interest (413)                 -           6.0     17.4      26.3     29.8      26.o     22.3      18.6     14.9      21.2      7.3       3.7
loan repaysnt                        -           -                  -         -       26.6     26.6      26.6     26.6      26.6     26.6      26.6     26.6
Total Debt Service                          -           6.0     17.1      26.3     29.6      52.6     1i.9      15.2     11.5     37.6      31.0      30.3     26.6
Net iTrone after debt servioe                37.1        30.2     35.3      50.6  )  6h.9      53.3     65.o      68.7     72.2      76.1     79.9     83.6      87.3     13.9
Farxwr's contribiution (1)                    -        ( 21.3)   (19.5)    l12.3))
Net rash position                            37.1        8.0      25.o     35.3
FINANCLU ETUrRl
Net lyerati,g  nce                          37.1        36.2     52.7      76.9     34. 7    135.9    113.      113.9    113.9     113.9    123.9    113.9     113.9    113.R
Net inco without developant                 _          37.1     37.4      37.L     37.b      37.1     37.1      37.1     37.1      37.4     37.1      37.1     37.4     37.1
Incremental rnet incor. (5)                   _        ( 1.2)     15.3      39.5     57.3     65.5      76.5     76.5      76.5     76.5      76.5     76.5      76.5     (6.5
Farer's con.ribution  (14)                    -        ( 21.4)   (19.5)    (12.3)
Loan funds                                    _        (65.1)    (75.2)    (19.b
Net incremental cash flow (farn) (6)          -        (100)     (52.2)    |22.2     57.3     65.5      76.5     76.5      76.5      76.5     76.n     76.5      76.5     76.5
tnrrewental net casn position of farver (7%  -         '2i6j     '21.6)     0.9      27.o      o.9      27.6     31.3      35.0     3t,7      12.5     16.2      hs.9     76.5
tiv t-e dFinancial Rate of Return 25%
(1) Initial fertilizer applications included in capital cost of pasture inprovement.
:2), Approximately *s 25 per oead izhout developeent; Ps 35 cith derelcprent.
(3) Painly cattle inventory tax, which varies sojewhat according to famer's financial circumstances.
(1) Farmer's contribution in cash, labor and material, 20% of capital experditure in Annex 10.
(5) Difference beoween net income ith and without development.
(6) Basis for calculating estirated financial rate of return.
7) Difference between e5timated cash position with ard vithOtt developrment.                                                                                                   ,o



ANNEX 13
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Sheep Development Center - Capital Expenditure and Financing
(Pesos)
YEAR           1           2           3             Total
ON-FARM 3INVESTMENT
Euipment
Tractor and trailer                     105,000        -           -             105,000
Spreader                                  8,ooo        -           -               8,000
Power plant and
shearing equipment (1)                 84,700        -           -             84,700
4-wheel drive vehicle                    75,000        -           -              75,000
Radio communication                      10.000        -           -             10.000
'Sub-total                          282,700        -           -             282,700
BuildirM
3 'hous es                               30,000      30,000        -             60,000
Labor quarters                           20,000      30,000         -             50,000
Woolshed                                 80,OO         -            -             80,000
Yards and dip (2)                        25,000      15.000         -             40.000
'Sub-total                          155,000      75,000        -             230,000
Fenci t,
2 0 l   P s 7,000/km                     95,000      45,000        -            140,000
Pasture improvement
Fertilizer                              450,000       -           -            450,000
Seed                                    160,000     160,000     160,000         480,000
Bree ig stock
2,000 imported Corriedale
ewes transferred (3)                2,200,000        -           -          2,200,000
2,0a) Romney ewes to be
imported                            2,200,000        -            -          2,200,000
100 rams @ Ps 2,400                     240,000        -           -             240,000
5 sheep dogs                             15,000        -           -              15,000
Sub-total                       47,55,000          -           -          4,655;000
Contingency (10%)                         579,300      28,000      16,000         623,300
TOTAL                             6,377,000     308,000     176.000        6,861.000
FTNANCING
IBRD loan         60%                   3,826,000     185,000     106,000        4,117,000
Caja contribution 40%                   2,551,000     123,000      70,000        2,7)4,000
(1) Includes grinder, press and scales.
(2) Inc Ludes auxlli.ary equipment.
(3) Cor.riedales purchased under First Livestock Project but not yet
financed by Bank.



COLO.MIA
S3',ONL LrVESrOCK PROJECT
Sheep, Developmnt Center - Flock Projections
YEAR             1         2        3         4         5         6         7         a         2       10        11        12       13-20
FLIOCK COmPOSITioN (end of period)
S'wes      (1)                          3,80D     4,000     4,000    4,500     4,400     4,000     3,322     4,000     3,000     h,000    4,090     4,000     4,000
Rams 2.5%                                  97       100       100       112       110      100        96       100       100       100       100      100       100
Hoggets    (2)                          2,800     2,850     3,200     3,20o     3,60     3,520     3,200     3,o58     3,200     3,200     3,200     3,200    3,200
TOIAL                                6,697    6,950     7,30D     '7,312    8,110     7,623     7,118    7,158     7,300     7,300     7,300     7,300     7,300
DEArHs (No)
,wes                                      200       19O       200       200       225      220       200       191       200       200       200       200      200
Rams                                        3         3         3         3         3         3        3         3         3         3         3         3        3
Hoggets                                    -        224       228       256       256      288       282       256       245       256       256       256      256
TOTAL                                 203       417       431       459       484       511      485       450       44a       459       459       459       459
SALES
Cull ewes                                  -        181       190       190       213     1,286    1,273       488       403       670       373       788      649
- ewe hoggets                            -        258       262       294       294       331      324       294       281       294       294       294       294
- rams                                   -         -         -         24        27        27        24       23        24        24        24        24       24
Surplus ewe hoggets                        -        459       659       288       840       219       -        321       523       308       605       190       329
-     ram hoggets                        -        200       200       200       200       200      200       200       200       200       200       200      200
Wethers                                    -      1,082     1,108     1,233     1,244     1,436    1,396     1,242     1,179     1,245     1,245     1,245    1,245
TorAL                                   -     2,180     2,419     2,229     2,818     3,499     3,217    2,568     2,610     2,741     2,741     2,741     2,741
rECHNICAL CEFFICIENTS (%)
Mortality:
- ewes                                    5         5         5         5         5         5         5        5         5         5         5         5         5
- rams                                    3         3         3         3         3         3        3         3         3         3         3         3         3
- hoggets                                 8         8         8         8         8         8        8         8         8         8         8         8         8
Sffective lambing rate                     70        75        80        80        s0       80        o0        S0        80        80        80        80       80
Culling rate - ewes                        _          5 Years 2-5; then 100% six-year ewes and 5% rest
- rams                         -         -        -         25        25        25        25        25       25        25        25        25        25
- ewe hoggets                 20         20       20        20        20        20        20        20       20        20        20        20        20
Wool clip                                     Lambs, average 0.5 kg; hoggets 3.0 kg; ewes 3.5 kg; rams 5.0 kg
(1)  Comirencing from flock of 4,000 ewes.
(2) From lambs born during year.                                                                                                                                     1!



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Sheep Development Center - Financial Projections
(Pesos '000)
YEAR             1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12      13-20
SALES                   Uhit Price Ps
Culls                      200                  -         88       90       101       107       329       321       161       141       198       138       221       --
Surplus ewe hoggets        700                  -        321      461       202       588       153        -        225       366       215       424       133        -
ram hoggets        800                  -        160      160       160       160       160       160       160       160       160       160       160        -
Wethers                    200                  -        216      222       247       249       287       279       2h8       236       249       249       249        -
Sub-total                                   -        765      933       710     1,104       929       763       794       903       o22       971       763      833 (1)
Wool                                           404       388      104       418       454       462       430       406       450       450       450       450      450
Total Income                               104     1,173    1,337     1,128     1,558     1,391     1,193     1,200     1,353     1,272     1,421     1,213     1,283
OPERATING COSTS
Wages                                          138       138       138        91(2)    94        94        94        94        94        91        91        94        94
Operation, repairs
and maintenance                               16        15       16        10(3)     52        55        60        60        60        60        60        60       60
Fertilizer                                      -        225      225       225       225       225       225       225       225       225       225       225       225
Veterinary                                      27        26       27        28        31        31        29        27        28        28        28        28        28
Other (5%)                                       9        20       20        19        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20
Total Operating Costs                      190       424      426       406       422       425       428       426       427       427       427       427       427
Net operating income                           214       749       911       722    1,136       966       765       771       926       845       994       786       856
Less: loan interest/repayment(4)             191       392      106       412       412       412(1)    601       601       601       604       601       604       604
Net income after debt service                   23       357      505       310       724       55        161       170       322       241       390       162       252
Caja contribution                           (2,551)     (123)      (70)      -        -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Net cash position                           (2,52B)      234      435       310       724       554       161       170       322       241       390       1Y2       252
FINANCIAL RETURN
Net operating income                           214       749      911       722     1,136       966       765       771       926       815       991       786       856
Capital expenditure (5)                      6,377       308      176        -        -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Net cash flow       (6)                     (6,163)      424      735        722    1,136       966       765       774       926       645       994       76b       o5b
(1)  Income stabilizes at this level with change in composition of sales from balanced flock.
(2)  Reduction in labor force and omission of one technician as flock becomes established.
(3)  Includes provision for vehicle replacement from Year h.
(h)  Six-year grace period; repayment to Government by equated annuity at 10%; total 18 years.
(5)  Capital expenditure to be financed 60% by Bank loan, L0% by Caja.
(6)  The estimated finaneial rate of return is 12%.



COLCUBIA
SBCOND LIVMTOCK PROJBCT
Sheep Farm (600 ha) - Caital lipenditure and Financing
(Pesoq
Year                      1          2          3           Totals
ON-FARM IVES2MENT
Equipment
ower plant                                 20,000       _          _           20,000
She aring equipment                        30,000       -          _           30,000
Buildings and water
Housing                                      -        10,000     10:000        20,000
Woolshed                                   10,000       -          -10,000
Yards an d dip                             10,000       -          -           10,000
Fencing
internal fencing @ Ps 7,000/km       45,000     25,000       -           70,000
Pasture establishment
100 ha @ Ps 500/ha                         17,000     17,000     16,000        50,000
100 ha @ Ps 450/ha                         15,000     15,000     15,000        45,000
Breedi     stock
-I0Fpurebred ewes @ Ps 700                 70,000       -          -           70,000
700 local ewes    @ Ps 300                210,000       -          _          210,000
20 purebred rams @ Ps 800                 16,000       -          -           16,000
Contingencies (10%)                          20,000     18,000     17,000        55,000
463,000     85,OOO     58,000       606,000
FINANCIN3
Caja                   80%                  370,400     68,ooo     46,400       484,800
Farmer's contribution 20%                    92,600     17,000    U1,600        121,200
Farmer's contribution provided by:
Additional cash                            97,000       -          -
-      earnings                          s 4l4001  70s100    88,100
Less: net cash surplus



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Model for Sheep Farm (600 ha) Development
1        2        3        4        5        6        7         8        9      10        11       12      13-20
FLOCK COMPOSITION (end of period)
Ewes      (1)                         722      857      974    1,132    1,308    1,082    1,362     1,436    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Rams 2.5%                              19        21      24        28      33        27       34       36       38       38       38       38       38
Hoggets   (2)                         560      542      686      779      906    1,046      866     1,090    1,149    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
TOTAL                           1,301    1,420    1,684    1,939    2,247    2,155    2,262     2,562    2,687    2,738    2,738    2,738    2,738
DEATHS (No)
Ewes                                   40       36       43       49       57       65       54        68       72       75       75       75       75
Rams                                    1        1        1        1        1        1         1        1        1        1        1        1        1
Hoggets                                -        45       43       55       62       72        84       69       87       92       96       96       96
TOTAL                              41       82       87      105      120      138      139      138      160       168      172      172      172
SALES (No)
Cull ewes                              38       35       40       46       54      495        51      177      176      209      225      251      243
-  ewe hoggets                       -        52       50       63       72       83       96        80      100      106      110      110      110
-  rams                              -        -         5        6        7        8        7         8        9        9        9        9        9
Surplus ewe hoggets                    -        -        -        -         -       -         -        -        90      139      142      116      124
-     ram hoggets                    -        -        16       14       12       22       10        14       13       15       15       15       15
Wethers                                -        254     224       290      333      392      456      373      476      503      527      527      527
TOTAL                              38      341      335      419      478    1,000      620       652      864      981    1,028    1,028    1,028
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS (%)
Mortality:
- ewes                                5        5        5        5                      5        5        5        5             5        5
- rams                                3        3        3        3         3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3        3
- hoggets                             8         8       8        8         8        8        8        8        8        8        8        8         8
Effective lambing rate                 70       75       80       80        80       80       80       80       80       80       80       80        80
Culling rate - ewes                     5         Years 1 - 5; then 100% six-year ewes, 5% rest
-rams                     -        -        -         25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25       25        25
- ewe hoggets             20        20      20        20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20
Wool clip (kg) - lambs (50%)             0.7      o.8      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
--hoggets               -          2.1      2.5      2.7      2.8      2.8      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9      2.9       2.9
- ewes                   1.6      1.8      2.0      2.3       2.5      3.1      3.2      3.3      3.3      3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4
- rams                   5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0
(1) Cormienciag flock of 800
(2) From lambs born during year



CO)LOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Sheep Farm (600 ha) - Financial Projections
kFesos '0
1       2        3       4        5       6       7        8       9        10      11       12    13-20
SALES                   Unit Price Ps
Culls                      200                 7.6    17..     19.0    23.0    26.6    117.2    30.8     53.0    57.0     64.8    68.8     74.0    72.h
Surplus ewre hoggets       700                                          _ _     _ _      _                       63.0     97.3    99.4    81.2     86.8
ras hoggets         800                 _._     _.     12.8     11.2     9.6    17.6      8.0    11.2     10.4    12.0     12.0    12.0    12.0
Sub-total             R200                 _      50.8     44.8    58.0     66.6    78.4    01.2    7)46        .   10.6     10 .h    105.h   I or, I
Sub- total                                 7.6    6c.2     76.6    92.2    102.8   213.2    130.0   138.8   225.6    274.7   285.6    272.6   276.6
Wool                                          27.6    l4.i     54.8    68.5     89.0   118.8   112.7    127.1   140.9    150.6   152.6    152.6   152.6
Total Income                              35.2   112.3    131.4   160.7    191.8   332.0    242.7   265.9   366.5    425.3   438.2    425.2   429.2
OPERATING COSTS
Wages                                         31.2    31.2     31.2    31.2     40.0    40.0     40.0    40.0    40.0     40.0    40.0     40.0    40.0
Operation, zepairs
and maintenance                              2.9     3.4      3.9     5.7      9.2     8.7    13.6     15.0    15.0     15.0    15.0     15.0    15.0
Fertilizer                                     -.       .       -.-    10.0     10.0    10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0     10.0    10.0     10.0    10.0
Veterinary                                     3.6     5.6      6.1     7.2      8.3     7.5      9.2     9.2     10.0    10.1    10.3     10.3    10.3
Other (5%)                                     1.9     2.0      2.1     2.7      3.4     3.3      3.6     3.7     3.8      3.8     3.8      3.8     3.8
Total Operating Costs                     39.6    42.2     43.3    56.9     70.9    69.5     76.4    77.9    78.8     78.9     79.1    79.1     79.1
Net oprating Income
Lets; Oloran Interest                       14.4)    70.1    88.1    103.9   120.9   262.5    166.3   188.0    287.7   346.4    359.1   346.1    350.1
loan repaynents                       25.9    56.6     64.6    67.9    67.9     67.9    56.6     45.2    33.9     22.6    11.3
n repayments  _._  _._  _.-  -. -  -. -  -. -  80.8  80.8  80.8    80.8    80.8    80.8      --
Total Debt Service                         25.9    56.6    64.6     67.9    67.9    67.9    137.4   126.0   1114.7   103.4     92.1    80.8
Net Income after Debt Service                 (30.3)  13.5     23.5    36.o     53.0   194.6     28.9    62.0    173.0   2413.0   267.0   265.3    350.1
Nermer s ctribution                          (92.6)  (17.0)   (11.6)    -                -            -            -         -     -
Net Cash Position                            (12.9)   ( 3.5)   11.9    36.0     53.0   194.6     28.9    62.0    173.0   243.0    267.0   265.3    350 1
FDINANCIAL RETUR!
Net operating int ome                         ( u.n4)  70.1    88.1    103.9   120.9   262.5    166.3   188.0    287.7   3h6.)4   359.1   346.1    350.1
Farmer s contribution                        (92.6)   (17.0)  (1I 6)    -.-      -.-     -.-      -.-     -.-      -.-     --
Net iundsh Flow (Farm)                                   1     31     1392370. 142 (68.5        166 3   188 0    28 7    34 4     3       3        350.1
Net Cash Flow (Farm)              1~~~~~467. L  t551  30.1  103.9   120.9   262.5    166.3   188.0    287.7   3)46.14  359.1   3)46.1   350.1



ANNEX 19
GCoLn"R
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Phasing of Investment and Financing
(Ps Millions)-
Year         1        2        3        4        5       Total
Investment
La Costa - Beef              71.1    142.8    111.6     39.9      -       365.4
- Dairy              2.7      5.1      3.9      1.5      -        13.3
Los Llanos - Beef            10.0     17.9     16.4      8.5      -        52.7
Other Dairy                   8.o     20.7     16.8      7.7      -        53.2
Sheep Farms                   -        4.6      5.5      1.4     0.6       12.1
91.8    191.1    154.2     59.0     0.6      496.7
Sheep Development Center      6.4      0.3      0.2      -        -         6.9
98.2    191.4    154.4     59.0     0.6      503.6
Financing
Bark                         58.9    114.8     92.5     35.h     0.4      302.0
Ca,-la                       20.9     38.4     31.0     11.8     0.1      102.2
Farmers and Ranchers         18.4     38.2     30.9     11.8     0.1       99.4
98.2    191.4    154.4     59.0     0.6      503.6



ANNEX 20
S3COND LIVESTOCE PR0JET
Cost of Technical Services
Year             1970    1971     1972    1973    Total      1970      1971    1972     1973    Total
(Ps tOOQ)                .                    (us$ '000)
FORaIUMJ iXCHANGE COST
Proiect management              1,600   1,600    1,600   1,600    6,400[       94.1     94.1    94.1     94.1   376.4
Training of local staff           570     570      570     -      1,710        33.5    33.5     33.5     -      100.5
Transportation-                   275     275      275     275    1,100        16.2    16.2     16.2    16.2     6L1.8
Sub-Tota1                   2,445    2,445   2,45    1,875    9,210       143.8    143.8   143.8    110.3   541.7
LOCAl COSTS
Local technioians               2,091   2,091    2,091   2,091    8,364       123.0   123.0    123.0    123.0   492.0
Administration                    400     b00      400     400    1,600        23.5     23.5    23.5     23.5    94.0
Tr-ans;ota tion                   125     125     125      125     500          7.4     7.4      73      7.3     29.4
5SUD-total                  2,616    2,616   2,616    2,616  10,4641     153.9    153.9   153.8    153.8    615.4
SEriAL                      5,061   5,061    5,061   I4,491  19,674   :   297.7    297.7   297.6    264.1  1,157.1
ac1ludeF; prnvi sion for purchase of 15 Jeeps



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project C.Jsh Flow
(Pesos 1000)
Tear             1         2        3                  5       6         7        8        9        10       11        12       13       14        15       16        17       18
Loana                             55,065  114,655    92,538   35,426     348      -        -         -        -        --                 -----                                                    -
Technical. assistanoo              2,295    2,295     2,295    2,295     -        -        -        -         -                  --------
Sheep Development Center           3.826      185       106      -       -        -                           -        --                 -------
Sub-total                     61,186   117,135   94,939   37,721     345 
CAJA:
Loans                             18,355   38,219    30,846   1-1,808    116      -        -         -        -        -         -        -------
Technical services                 1,720    2,860     4,000    4,0o0   2,000     1,000o   1,000    1,000     1,000    1,00      1        1,000     1,000    1,000     1,0      1,0       ,0        ,0
Skuep Development Center (Net)  2 574 48       575      310     724       550      160       170      320      240       390      180       250      250        ~     -        
Sub-total                       "V;I1I5          3,41     16,115    2,040    1,550    1,160     1,170    1,320     1,240    1,3590    1,180    1,250    1,50      1,50     1,50      1,50     i,
Shoot-term loane                  25,6260  48,720    46,3170  23,:180F   -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         ----
Sub-tot-al                    48,ze     C0279    0171       e29     ,Bs U4U   ,55u     1,160    1, I-t   1,320     1,240    1,390     1,1830   1,250     1,250    1,250    1,250     1,250    1,5
Interest                           5,150    20,979   40,315   52,267  52,457    45,820   38,920    31,910   24,810    17,680   10,540     3,650      110     -                  ---
Repayments                          -        -         -        -      22.840   437.710   9.10     50.02    50,830    50,830   510, 8730  49~,3200  25,39     810      ---                     
SoSub-total                      5,150    20,979   40,315   52,267   7487      353      8,3      81,93    75,640    6a,5l0   6,30       290     2550       -1        -                  --
Shrt-term inteamest              3,060     5,880    5,530     2,765         -        -         -        -         -   -         ------
Total Rinda                  117,665  234,273   222,575  132,051  78,085    95,080   89,290    83,100   76,960   69,750    62,760   54,16o    26,750    2,060     1,250    1,250    1.250     1,250
AFPLICATION 0F 70NS
Loana granted:
Beef cattle                       64,880  128,560   102,360   38,680          -        -             -        -         -                  --------
Dairy farms                        8,54o    20,610   1J6,640   7,410     -        -        -         -        -         -        ------- 
Sheep farms                          -      3.704     .38,               L&.  6                      -        - 
Sub-total                     71420   152,874   123,384   47,234     464                                                     . 
Short-term loa,u                  25,620   48,720    46,370   23,180                                                                                                   7 
Sbimp b6im16pamt C6fitei            6,377       308      176       -       -        -        -        -         -        -         --                          -----
Expenaeee
Admini1stration                      690    1,030       960    1,000     500       500      500       500      500       500      500       500      500       o   500       500  5oc0o             500
Tuhsclassistance              2,295     2,295    2,295     2,295     -       -        -         -        -         -        --- 
Technical swvicas                  1,72      2,860    400       .0      2.00          1.0    ox 1.000    1.000    1.000     1.000    1.     O 100  1.000     1,000    1.000     1,000    1.000    1,000
Sub-total          4,705    6,105    7~~~~~~~~        ~~~, 255  729  2,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1 500   1.500    1,500     1,500    2,500     1,500    1, 500    1,500    1,0
Interest payable& 1/
IBRD loan                          3,977   11,591    17,762    20,214  20,236   20,240    20,240   19,070   17,830    16,510   15,100    13,600   12,010    10,310    8,500     6,570    4,520     2,330
Ecohmitet feek                     1,876      998       286        3     -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         --                 -
Subha-eotal                      2.14      6.4       .6      084     1,9       090      1,0       020       96       8,890     8,130    730      640       5,550    4,57o     3,540    2.430     1250
Sub-total   7,995    10,030   27,612    31,101  31,133  3~~~~~~~~~~~J1,1940U  31,140  2930 2,375,3 320            2,20      60,470   15,060   13,070    10,110    6,950     3500
Loan repayment (annuity)            -      -        -             -        -        -       17,920   19,090    20,330   21,650    23,060   24,560    26,150   27,850   29,660    31.590   33,640    35,830
Tbtal Application            118,117  226,917   204,797  208,810  34,097    32,640o  5o,560    49,930   49,26o    48,55o   47,790    46,980   46.12o    45,210   44,230    43,200   42,090   40.910
Balance                               (452)   7,356    17,778   23,241   43,988   62,440    38,730   33,170    27,700   21,200    14,970    7,180   (19,370) (43,150) (42,980)  (41,950)  (4o,840)  (39,660)
Cumulative Balance                    (452)    6,904   24,682   41,923   q1,911  154;,351  193,081  226,251   253,951  275,151   290,121  297,301  277,931   234,781  191,801   149,851  109,211    69,351
I/ At an assumeed Bank interest rate of 6.5% leaving 3.5% twards ttie exclange risk.  If intereat -it, is inmr ....d t~,n th, amount avail,abie
to hlip mect tie exchange risk would be correspordi ogly reduced.



ANNEX 22
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
MARK ETING
1.        The additional production of beef, dairy products and wool which
would result from the proposed project would be marketed through existing
channels. For the expected increases in beef output current slaughtering
capacity is adequate and the facilities for cattle movement to consumption
centers are satisfactory. Population growth would ensure a rising domestic
demand for additional beef at existing prices. In addition, Colombia has in
prospect the possibility of increased export business.
2.        For dairy products, processing capacity and transportation
facilities in the areas to be developed are adequate. Per capita consumption
of milk in Colombia is extremely low and is a reflection more on the existing
low purchasing power than on supply. However, in the major centers where
high population growth is the significant factor, there is an unsatisfied
demand for increased milk supplies. The areas proposed have ready access
to these markets so the increased output resulting from the Project would
be fully absorbed.
3.        Colombia has had no experience with the marketing of locally
produced fine wool. However, as evidenced by the level and nature of wool
imports, there is a substantial demand for fine wool and the production
generated by the proposed Project would be readily saleable to the textile
Tiil I .
A. Beef
The Marketing Chain and Slaughter Facilities
h.        The marketing of beef in Colombia is complex.   Between producer
and consumer there are many intermediaries including cattle dealers,
commission merchants, wholesalers and retailers. This framework is a
consequence, largely, of inadequate market knowledge; beef producers
commonly sell their cattle on the farm rather than face the uncertainties
associated with transportation and market prices. In return, the inter-
mediaries are well rewarded for assuming these risks.
5.        The principal cattle market in Colombia is at Medellin, where
prices tend to fix the level of those in most other parts of the country.
For this market cattle are drawn from the more western parts of the North
Coast region, the departments of Antioquia and Caldas and the middle
Magdalena Valley. Bogota is also an important market, its supply of cattle
coming from the middle Magdalena Valley as well as from the savannah of
Bogota and from the Eastern Plains region (Los Llanos). Barranquilla
provides a rnarketing outlet for cattle from the North Coast and the lower
lMagdalena Valley. This coastal city is situated on the Atlantic sea-board



ANNEX 22
Page 2
and its modern slaughtering and shipping facilities make it a logical
outlet for the export of beef products. Other important markets are
Cali and Bucaramanga.
6.        Cattle are transported to the market either on foot or by road,
rail or river barge. Frequently a combination of these methods is used.
In Los Llanos, the vastness of the area, the nature of the roads and the
distance to the main market at Bogota create special transportation problems.
Apart from contraband exports to Venezuela, cattle are brought to
Villavicencio on foot, by truck or river barge and thence by road (truck)
to Bogota. In the wet season roads in Los Llanos are virtually impassable
so that cattle can only be moved on foot or in some instances by river
barge. Extensive cattle breeding is the predominant type of operation in
those regions most distant from Villavicencio, from which feeder steers are
sold for fattening nearer this center.
7.        The number of slaughterhouses in Colombia exceeds 800.   The
operation of most of these is conducted by municipal councils and the taxes
and charges levied on cattle slaughtered are an important source of council
revenue. Consumer preferences are for freshly killed meat. In the absence
of facilities for transporting refrigerated meat, except within the major
cities, the system, though inefficient and difficult to change or modernize,
adequately meets the present requirements for fresh meat. With few
exceptions, slaughtering is carried out on a custom fee basis, according to
Which all important by-products remain the property of the cattle Xnmer and
must be kept identified with the carcass throughout processing. This limits
the level of efficiency which can be achieved, particularly in the larger-scale
abattoirs.
8.    Five slaughterhouses are currently involved in the export of meat - two
in Barranquilla and one each in the cities of Bogota, Buenaventura and Santa
Maria. A sixth plant at Villavicencio went bankrupt in 1968. These plants
have slaughter and refrigeration capacity well in excess of likely export re-
quirements in the foreseeable future. However, apart from these plants and
one or two others, most slaughterhouses have little more than the most
rudimentary facilities for refrigeration and by-product processing.
Demand for Beef
9.    Consumption of beef in Colombia is in the form of freshly killed lean
meat. Meat retailed by butchers has generally been killed the previous night.
Fresh offal is extremely popular, to an extent that little of the original
animal is left for processing. Domestic demand for processed meat is small
but growing.  Beef accounts for about 85 of per capita demand for red meat
which has varied between 24 and 28 kilos per annum over the past 10 years or so,
a level that is low by comparison with Argentina (80kg), Paraguay (50kg) and
Uruguay (70 kg). Between 1963 and 1966 per capita and total demand declined
sharply as a result of substantial increases in the retail price of beef to
which the consumer has displayed high sensitivity.  MIoney prices have remained
steady since then and a slight increase in consumption has occurred. Using



AONTEX 22
Page 3
sts a basis the current rate of population growth of 3.2%, domestic demand for
beef is projected to groar at the rate of about 5% per annum. This will depend,
however, on a continuation of the retail price stability established in the
most recent past. Prices will have to fall considerably before per capita
consumption will rise to any significant degree.
10.   Colombia exports beef in the form of live cattle and, since 1965, as
refrigerated carcass meat. Exports of beef since 1963 are as follows:
Year                      Live Cattle          Carcass Meat
(us$ 1000)
1963                          180
1964                          361                   -
1965                        6,344                 2,435
1966                        5,997                 1,363
1967                        1,323                 1,503
1968                          778                   794
(First 6 months)
Peru is the major buyer of Colambian beef accounting for about 90% of recent
]legal live cattle exports and more than 50% of meat exports.  In addition to
these exports, there are contraband exports of live cattle out of Los LLanos
to Venezuela which amount to between 120,000 and 200,000 head per year.  As
raany as eight large slaughterhouses have been established in Venezuela to
facilitate this trade. They will flourish as long as the retail price of meat
in Venezuela remains so high (three to four times the level in Colombia).
11.   Government planners forecast a sharp upturn in legal exports of cattle
and beef and have tentatively estimated these at US$ 17.5 million in 1969, in-
creasing to US$ 36 million in 1972. These projections appear optimistic and the
chances of achieving them are considered remote. The Government declared
policy of exchange rate flexibility, coupled with a 15% tax bonus, which
permits exporters to receive Ps 19.55 for each dollar's worth of exports, is
helping producers compete on the international market. A contract for de-
:Livery of 2,000 tons of refrigerated beef at US$ 550 per ton FOB has recently
been negotiated with Spain. But in the long ter-m a much greater effort to
modernize beef production methods by the application of improved technology
ilrl be necessary to produce a sizeable surplus for export which can be market-
ed in competition with countries such as Argentina.
:L2.  For the dawestic market, FEDEGAN are now implementing a policy directed
towards breaking the existing marketing chain of middlemen. They have succeed-
ed in doing so on a limited scale in the Bogota market where they have con-
tracted the slaughter of their own cattle and retailed the meat directly at a
:Lower price and, allegedly, a higher quality. The scale on which FEDEGAN will
pursue this scheme is uncertain but ill1 depend upon the ultimate success of
-this trial attempt.
13.   In regard to slaughtering operations, this aspect is expected to improve



ANNEX 22
Page 4
as a result of an AID grant to Colcmbia for the development of the livestock
inLdustry. According to this grant, US$ 12 million is to be channeled through
the livestock Bank for the purpose of creating large-scale slaughter opera-
tions. The first installment of the loan for US$ 4 million has recently been
approved and will be used for the development of nine slaughterhouses. In
addition, three cattle markets are to be established in locations to be deter-
mined by an on-going stucdy concerned with the production and consumption of
beef.  It is proposed to establish regional slaughterhouses of mixed owner-
ship to replace the existing municipal operations in order to increase pro-
ductivity and introduce some rationale to the processing of by-products.
To win acceptability of this program, it is proposed to compensate the
municipalities for lost revenues.
B. Dairy Products
14.   In 1967, slightly more than 90% of total milk consumption in Colombia was
met by domestic production, the balance being accounted for by donations from
the United States under the PL480 program. Per capita consumption in that
year in all forms was about 68 liters, though this varied widely between the
main population centers and the rural areas. Annual per capita consumption
in Bogota, MAedellin, Cali and Barranquilla was of the order of 95-100 liters
whereas in rural areas it was as low as 46 liters.  Cn a countrywide per capita
basis, consumption has increased by about 35% since 1954. The low level of
consumption in Colombia is a reflection of demand factors more so than condi-
tions of supply; the majority of the population cannot afford to buy milk at
existing income and price levels.
15.   Consumption of raw milk, represents about 60% of the total, with pasteuri-
zed and manufactured (condensed, powdered, skimmedi milk accounting for
approximately 26% and 5% respectively. The remaining 9% represents liquid
milk reconstituted from powdered milk supplied by the US.  High population
growth in the major cities of between 6 and 8% per annum has created, and will
continue to create, an unsatisfied demand and it is these centers which will
provide the market for any increase in milk production.
16.   Considering the high percentage of total milk production that is marketed
in the raw form, existing facilities for milk processing are regarded as
adequate. There are no processing facilities in the Narino district outside a
large cottage industry producing cheese, and these are not warranted at the
present stage of dairy development in this area.
17,. The most common channel of milk marketing in Colombia involves a number
of intermediaries: collectors, processors, wholesalers and retailers. Handling
margins are controlled by Government regulation in cities larger than 70,000
inhiabitants.
18.   lith the increasing demand in the larger urban centers for milk in
Colombia, there are transportation problems in some regions associated with the
increasing extension of production areas.  With respect to the Project Areas
proposed, the system of roads and nearness of markets pose no problems to the



ANNEX 22
Page 5
to the producers supplying Barranquilla, Bogota and iledellin.  Similarly,
production increases in the departments of Cauca and VaUle will be marketed
without difficulty because of the close proximity of the Cali market. However,
onily limited additional finance is proposed for the Narino district as it is
remote from the nearest major consuming areas and existing producer prices
do not favor large production increases. The feasibility of establishing
a low-cost industry on a meaningful scale will have to be demonstrated before
any expenditure on additional processing facilities could be justified.
k   Sheep
1'9. The majority of sheep in Colombia are of the native or criollo variety.
WIool produced is coarse and generally unsuitable for use by the textile indus-
try which has, in the past, had to rely on wool imports. It is estimated that
about 85% of Colombian wool production is consumed by the cottage industry
engaged in spinning/weaving operations.  This industry is located in the major
wool producing areas of Boyaca, Cundinamarca, Narino, Santander and Caldas,
and produces shawls, rugs, and carpets.  It is comprised of local cooperatives
and small factories.
20.   The primitive nature of domestic wool production in Colombia is well
matched by its poor marketing system. Prices of wool vary widely wuithin and
between regions and the resulting uncertainty has had a marked effect upon
producer incentives and the nature of sheep farming. With few exceptions, the
individual production unit is extremely small.
2:L.  IJool is generally sold at the local markets of the various producing
reagions. The result is that different prices may prevail within a single
district since they depend greatly on the negotiating capacity of each pro-
ducer.  For greasy wool  sales to the cottage industry, producers receive a
price of around 20-23 pesos per kilo. Alternatively, they may be unable to
dispose of their wool in this way and have to accept a price of 14-16 pesos
per kilo from the Sheep Breeders' Association. This group is located in
DBgota and processes the wool to an extent for resale to the cooperatives
at 22-23 pesos per kilo.
22.   Marketing of fine grade wool, as it is now produced, poses no problems.
Pure breed (imported) animals account for less than 1% of the total sheep
population in Colombia and most of these are owned by the textile mills.
Virtually, all fine wool production has been from the sheep maintained by the
mills and, consequently, its disposal has placed little strain on the marketing
network. The factories, in effect, buy this wool from themselves at 30 pesos
per kilo, a price which it is said is available to any other producer capable
of supplying the same quality. This possibility will shortly be tested when
attempts are made to market the first wool clip of the sheep imported under
loan 484C0.



ANNEX 22
Page 6
Mutton and Lamb
23.   Lamb and mutton account for no more than about 1% of the total meat
consumption in Colombia, the greater part of which is consumed directly.
Animals are sold on-the-hoof to local butchers at a price of about 5 pesos
per kilo.



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVEST2OCK PROJECT
Sconomic Rate of Return (''
(Pesos Millions;
Year           1          2        3       4       5       6        7       8        9      10       11     12-19       20
Aggregated Ranches Increment al
Cash Flows                        (216.8)    (186.8)   (97.0)   38.9    75.2   134.0    195.6   156.3    175.1   201.0    203.7   104.5    1,598.0(2)
bRzes                                  3.8       4.1       4.4     5.1     5.14    5.8      6.o     6.2      6.3     6.3      6.3     6.3       6.3
Cost of Technical Services          ( 5-0)    ( 5-0)     ( 5-0)  ( 4-5) ( 1-2)   ( .6)     -        _       _        _       _        _
Balance                             (218.0)   (187.7)    (97.6)   39.4   79.4    139.2    201.6   162.5   181.4    207.3    210.0   210.8   1,604.3
Estimated Economic Rate of Return 22%
(1) Negative figures appear in parenthesis
(2) Includes residual value of livestock



COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL MANAGER
of 'he CAJA
I
Assistant General Manager
for Development
Livestock Development Department                              Project Loan Committee
2 Directors of the Caja
Technical Director               Administrative Director               Assistant General Manager
and                                 and                          for Development
Assistant                             Staff                       Auditor General
for                                 for                        Technical Director
Preparation and Supervision                      Loan
of Farm Plans                      Administration                   Administrative Director
Divisional Secretary
Narino - Cauca Valle
Los Llanos                           La Costa                                                         Sheep and Wool Unit
UJbate and Ceja Valleys
Technical Director                   Chie  T echnician                                                   Technical Supervisor
.                    ~~~~~~~Chief Techn ic ian 
Assistant                          Assistants                                                             Assistant
Assistant
Technicians  |ecniiasecniiasesm
Tcncians                        Technicians                         TechnicasIITechnician                                           '
FT                      ~         ~I__I_



Ai.EX 25
CO LOiBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE AGRARIAN INDUSTRIAL AND i'UNfIG CREDIT BANK
(CAJA DE CMEDITO AGRARIO IEDUSTRIAL Y aZNERO)
A. Introduction
1.        The Agrarian Industrial and Mining Credit Bank (Caja de Credito
Agrario Industrial y TUnero - Caja) was formed in 1931 as a semi-official
joint stock company. The Ps 511 million share capital is held by:
Ps '000       %
GovernmentL                         421,468       82
National Federation of Coffee
Growers                            61,935       12
Agricultural MIortgage Bank          21,003        4
Stabilization hund                    6,876        1
Others                                   21        1
511,303      100
2.        Caja has 638 offices or agencies throughout6 Colombia and employs
8,400 people.  It is the largest bank in Colombia, apart from the Central
Bank itself, and probably the largest agricultural credit institution in
Ditin America. 1Ninety per cent of Caja's portfolio is in agriculture
(including livestock) and the rest in small industry and mining. More
than 501P of all Colombian agricultural lending was financed by Caja in 1967,
thlough this proportion is declining somewThat as lending in the sector
by other institutions increases, e.g., Banco Ganadero (Livestock Bank),
with AID and IDB assistance; and the commercial banks, through government
directed lending regulations (See Annex 2 on Banking and CreditX). The
growth of Caja lending is illustrated by the following totals:
Ps Illion
1965    1966     1967     1968
Total Loan Portfolio      2,038   2,339    2,806    3,584
Index (1965 = 100)          100     115      138      176
3.        Caja lending is extensive.  In 1967, 306,334 loans were made for
a total of Ps 2,063 million, an average of Ps 6,734.



ANNEX 25
Page 2
4.        In the same year, 24% of Caja loans were between Ps 1,000 -
5,O00 (US6Q6,300), the largest group, while about 14% were in excess of
Ps 150,ooo (uS$ 9,000).  There is no official maximum, though loans are
rarely made for more than Ps 1.0 million or to borrowers with net worth
exceeding Ps 15 million (Us$ 90,000).
5.        Rates of interest vary between 8% short-term (for small amounts)
anid 12% long-term. For loans longer than five years, a higher rate of 14%
will probably be introduced.
6.        Security for medium and long-term loans is usually a first mortgage
on land and improvements; on short-term loans, a chattel mortgage on cattle,
machinery or crops, though personal guarantees are accepted. All loans are
judged by expected repayment capacity generated by the loan, regardless of
security offered.
B. Purpose
7.        Cajats objective is to improve agricultural production, mainly
by the smaller farmer, through provision of credit and inputs at reasonable
costs.  In addition to lending, mostly on short and medium-term - shorz 66%
of portfolio; medium 27'%; long 7% in 1968 - Caja provides technical assistance
to its borrowers and, through i-as numerous branches, sells agricultural
machinery (much of it imported) and a wide range of agricultural requisites,
all at competitive prices. Caja also produces and.distributes improved
seeds and carries out trial plantings to demonstrate their effectiveness.
C. Organization and Management
El.       As a semi-autonomous body, Caja makes its own lending decisions
within the framework of Gkvernment's general agricultural policy.   Caja
i.s controlled by a 10-man Board of Directors comprising:
The Minister of Agriculture (Chairman)
One representative each of:
The President of the Republic
National Federation of Coffee Growers
Colombian Farmers' Association
The Central Bank
The Small Farmers' Association l/
Manager of the Colombian Agricultural- and. Livestock Institute
(ICA) 1/
Manager of the Parm Products Marketing. Institute (IEMIA) l/
I4nager of the Institute for Development of Natural Resources I/
The Ydnister of Finance, though not a member, may also speak and vote at
Board meetings.
l/ Added in October 196&.



ANNEX 25
Page 3
9.        Caja is administered by a General Hlanager (Sr. Jose Elias del
Hierro) with five General Sub-ilanagers and a Secretary General. A General
Sub-i-lanager is in charge of each of the following departments:  Administration;
Banking; Finance and Commerce; and Development.
10.       Branches have a large measure of independence and may approve
loans up to certain limits (maximum Ps 120,000) according to which one of
four categories they are in. Larger branches have local boards that
may approve loans to larger limits (maximum Ps 250,000 for the highest
category). Bank livestock Project lending, however, is centralized for the
time being and all project loan decisions are made by a Loan Committee,
specially set up for the purpose.
D, Resources
10.       Caja's principal sources of funds are deposits (of which two-
thirds are on savings account) and discounts with the Central Bank, as
shown by the following figures at June 30, 1968:
Deposits                         1,710           31
Sundry Liabilities                 426            7
Discounts with Central Bank      1,669           30
Bonds                              668           12
Foreign loans                      199            4
Capital Account:
Paid Capital            511
ireserves and Provisions 351   862           16
5,534         100
Caja is negotiating with Government for an increase in paid-up capital,
which has remained virtually unchanged since early 1966. The permitted
limit for discounts with the Central Bank is decided from year to year and
it is uncertain whether Caja will be permitted to increase i'ts quota, already
considerably higher than for other banking institutions. Caja is also
considering other sources of funds, e.g. compulsory share capital sub-
scription by borrowers.
lI.       Caja has received several foreign loans; in 1949 US$ 5 million
from the Bank for imported agricultural machinery; another US$ 5 million for
the same purpose in 1956 (both repaid within seven years); in 1967 US$ 12.2
million from the International Development Bank for agricultural machinery;
US$ 2.5 million and US$ 3.4 million from the Ixport-Import Bank; and US$ 8
million from the Development Loan Fund.



ANiTEa 25
Page 4
12.       In 1966, the Bank lent US$ 16.7 million to Cajas repayable in
18 years, for supervised livestock crediL, and at December 31, 1968 nearly
75% had been committed. Tables 1 and 2 gives summarized actual and estimated
profit and loss accounts and balance sheets for this project. Early short-
fall of income over expenditure was due to a slow start as the separate
Livestock Development Department was set up and the project explained to
Livestock producers.  The Bank project is only part of Caja's livestock
loan portfolio totalling Ps 954 million (3$ 56 million) or 34% of all
lending at December 31, 1967.  Other loans totalled Ps 1,853 million
(US$ 109 million) or 66d. At June 30, 1968, Bank project loans totalled
Ps 171 million or about 5% of total lending. If the proposed Second
Livestock Project loan is approved, Bank project loans will rise to about
12% of Caja's total lending by 1971. (See Tables 3 and 4; Caja actual and
estimated profit and loss accounts for the years ending June 30, 1965
to 1971; and actual and estimated balance sheets at June 30, 1965 - 1971.)
E. rinancial Situation
13.       Caja aims to make its income exceed expenditure by a small margin,
taking one year with another, and reinvests all profits.  The percentage of
net income, before reserves and provisions, over the past four years was:
1965     1966     1967     1968
I. * *      ( .**  *   *.. ... X * ...   e ....e 
7.3      7.7      9.0     13.0
14.       Although the ratio between total indebtedness and capital reserves
and provisions has been declining during the past three years, due to the
availability of rediscouni facilities wzith the Central Bank, the percentage
of capital and reserves to total indebtedness is not expected to fall below
15%, which is accepuable.  The following are actual and forecast percentages:
Pecentages
1965    1966   1967   1968    1969    1970
Capital and reserves    19.7    19.3   17.0   15.0    15.2    15.6
Total Indebtedness      80.3    80.7   83.0   84.0    84.8    84.4
15.       Caja's collection record is good, the average loss over many years
being Ps 1 in 10,000.  Delinquent loans over the past four years have averaged
about 12',' of total loans; most are repaid within two months (and are overdue
because of harvesting delays). The figures are:



Page 5
(Ps a000)
Year    Total Loans     Over due     5'x,
1965       2,038          281        13.8
1966       2,339          285        12.2
1967       2,806          341        12.2
1968       3,584          394        lJ.0
The good record is partly because Caja credit is very important to the small
farmer.   If he destroys his credit with Caja, he has no other certain source
and none at reasonable cost.
G. Audit
16.       Caja accounts are subject to the surveillance of the Superintendence
of Banks, a Government department responsible for the control of all banking
insti utions. The Superintendent of Banks appoints the Caja general auditor
and he has two assistant auditors working continually in the Caja office.



Table 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTDCK PROJECT
Profit and Loss Account of Stae I of Bank Project
(Pesos . 
1966      1967      1968      1969       1970      1971
---------Actual -------          ----Estimated----
INCOME
Interest received                -       2,606    15,351     28,980    43,410    42,010
-    due                     -           6       539     1,010      1,440    1,520
Fees received and due            -          81        70        -         -         -
Total Income                 -       2,693    15,960     29,990   44,850     43,530
EXPENDITURE
Salaries and travel:
Expatriate                    437         754    1,339      1,470
Local                         407      1,388      2,711     3,510     2,540     1,770
Interest to Bank                 -       1,667     4,509     10,440    15,130    16,660
Interest to Government 2%        71         67     1,302     3,480      5,040     5,550
Total Intexe st              71      1,734     5,811    13,920     20,170    22,210
Social charges                    1      1,066     1,120     1,400      1,140       770
Branch commission                -         326       523        900       260       160
Other expenses                    2        224        252      310        350       350
Total Expenditure           918      5,492    11,756     21,510    24,460    25,260
Profit (Loss)                  (918)    (2,799)    4,204     8,480     20,390    18,270
Cumulative                     (918)     (3,717)      487     8,967    29,357    47,627



Table 2
COLOMBIA
SFCOND .IVESMQCK PROJECT
Balance Sheet of Stage I of Bank Project
(Pesoa '000)
For Year Ending June 30        1966      1967      1968       1969       1970       1971
-------- Actual ---------       ------- Estimated --------
ASSETS
Loans made:
Short-term                        -                    424    10,000      20,000      -
Medium-term                       -        _        13,911     25,000     20,360    12,030
Long-term                         _                156.648   314.400    I342,400   350,730
Sub-total                     -      69,094   17O,903    349,400    362,7b0    302,10
Interest due                        -           6        539      1,010     1,440      1,520
'Tehicles and stores                -         178      2,289      2,500      2,500     2,500
Total Assets                  -      69,278   173,811    352,910    386,700    366,780
LIABILITIES
Bank Loan portfolio 75%             -      51,820   127,919    254,550    272,070    272,070
Technicali assistance               _      1,191       2,530     4,000      5,620       -
Less:  Amount carried forward (1)   -      18,834      9,122    31,970       -
Net loan                            -      34,177    121,327    226,580    277,690    272,070
Caja Account:
Loan portfolio 25%                  -      17,274     42,640    84,850     90,690     90,690
Short-term                          -       -           424     10,000     20,000       -
Balance                             -      21,544     8,933     22,513    (31,037)   (43,607)
Net Account (2)                    Ylo     30,olo    51,99T    117,363     79,653     47,0t3
Profit and Loss Account           (918)   ( 3.717)       487     8,967     29,357     47,627
-      69,278    173,811    352,910    386,700    366,780
(1) Amount eligible for Bank financing, not yet oentributed by Bank
(2) Caja contribution to project, after taking Profit and Loss balance into account



ANNEX 25
Table3
COLOMBIA
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Caja Profit and Loss Accounts Years ending June 30, 1965 - 1971
(Pesos '000)
1965       1966       1967       1968         1969       1970       1971
--------------- ActuaL ----------------       --------- Estimated ---   -
INCOME
Interest;on loans                     180,823    210,711    258,026    334,790      418,000    502,000    650,000
Commissions and fees                   17,798     21,073     26,502     34,239       43,000     53,000     64,300
Other interest                         34,276     40,292     43,186     45,002       47,000     50,000     53,000
Other income:
Merchandising                        12,313     23,762     26,882     31,035       36,000     41,000     47,000
Other                                17,623     22,614     23.319     30,058       37.000     40,000     42,000
29,936     46 376     50,201     61i093       73 000     81 000     d90ooo
Total Income                    262,833    318,452    377.915    475.124      581,000    686o000    856,000
EXPENDITUR3-
Salaries and travel                    79,904     93,304    102,121    124,142      137,000    170,000    200,000
Social charges (net)                   48,088     65,343     58,840     57,717       80,000     90,000    100,000
Other expenses                         33.064     38.850     62.701     70,282       84,000     95,000    110,000
Sub-total                       161,056    197,497    223,662    252,141      301,000    355,000    410,000
Gross Profit before interest
and provisions                      101,777    120,955    154,253    222,983      280,000    331,000    446,ooo
Interest paid:
Central Bank                          8,005     16,858     25,190     34,123         -          -          -
Commercial Banks                      7,204     16,533     19,750     24,245         -          -          -
World Bank                             -          -         1,667      4,509         -          -          -
Savings Accounts (including
expenses)                          24,936     29,722     33,667     4,o008         -          -          -
Other                                15,309      2,870      4,993      3,255         -          -          -
Sub-total                       255454      65 98t3     5,267    10710        145,000    168.000    200000
Net Income after interest              46,323     54,972     68,986    115,843      135,000    163,000    246,000
Reserves and provisions (net)          41,075     36,596     46,510     88,215       90,000    110,000    180,000
Net ProfLt                              5,248     18,376     22,476     27,628       45,000     53,000     66,000



ANNEX 25
Table
COLGIEBIA
SECOND LIVTOCK PROJECT
Caja Balance Sheets at June 30, 1965 - 1971
(Pesos '000)
1965         1966         1967         1968           1969          1970         1971
-------------------- Actual --------------------      ------------ Estimated ------------
ASSETS
Cash or equivalent                     152,672      105,577       226,337     193,311         257,000      284,000      300,000
Sundry debtors                          81,726      101,687      264,407       212,334        220,000      230,000      240,000
Loan Portfolio:
World Bank project                      -            -          69,094       170,983        349,400      456,000      589,000
IDB project                             -            -            -          12,469
Others                             2,038,109    2.338,745    2.736.749    3.400o488      )3,862.600    4.118.000    4.528,000
Total Loan Portfolio           2,038,109    2,338,745    2,805,843    3,583,940      4,212,000    4,574,000     5,117,000
Investmenats                           448,882      482,647      468,107      666,317        667,000       750,000      820,000
Merchandising Department               184,624      258,999      302,187       369,315        406,000      447,000      491,000
Building.s and land                    117,491      148,051      169,214      201,157         231,000      266,000      306,000
Other assets                           204.220      275,546      270,287      307,786        402.000       449,000      501,000
Total Assets                   3,227.724    3,711,252    4.506,382    5,534,160      6,395,000    7,000,000    7.775,000
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                        390,675      401,601      472,474      560,561        674,000       774,000      913,000
Savings deposits                       737,767      890,316      943,969    1,149,687      1,242,000     1,404,000    1,526,000
S-ndry l-abilities                     248,545      316,418      391,449      425,743        678,000      736,000       942,000
Discounts with Central hanik           860,000      967,755    1,383,605    1,668,818      1,700,000    1,700,000     1,700,000
9onds issued                           353,652      416,265      510,113      668,124        800,000      850,000       910,000
Foreign loans:
World l3ank                             -             437       34,178      121,137        227,000      339,000       389,000
IDB                                     -            -            -          78,115
Other                                   -           1,383        2,247          261     ) 100,000       100,000      100,000
Total Foreigni Loans                -           1,820       36,425      199,513        327000 o439,000           489,000
Capital Account
Paid-in capital                      480,375      510,643      511,303      511,303        516,000      521,000       526,000
Legal reserve                         39,454       41,643       45,952       50,595         51,000       52,000        53,o00
Other reserves and pro-visions       112,008      146,415      188,616       272,188       362,000       471,000      650,000
AnrLual profit                         5,248       18.376       22.476       27,628         45,000       53,000        66,ooo
Total Capital Accoumt            637,085      717,077      768.347      861,714        974.ooo    1,095,000    1, 295. 000
Total Liabilities              3,227,724    3,711,252    4,506,382    5,534,160      6,395,ooc    7,000,000    7,775,000



'IO      -      ; L a I                           GENERAL    LOCATION
OF BEEF, DAIRY     CATTLE AND
N --            E                 >           '<v   t -F-- X } SHEEP PROJECTS
,NORTE
..-;-..* .SUCRE         DE
.- --
*t wA U  A>- 3  [ PIo,e,o RB, c&_-~-~ 5- ~  -/-~~~ SAN TANDE-
.. 9  C O R D O B A _2t.  -                 E  7Z-TL
.  A  N  T  0  0    'J  I  A.'
-z_       -;   -                , /  .        1r>. ,E   >A  R  A  U  C  A
<                                :m.ddle mn5d,-                        ....*M..de .  Mo  dolo.  .  -  -** -  *.------  Prot.
Q,aibd6
2  . iC  H  C 0_'
- -tt   FZ  Monaiz,zes  _."  , I  Ubote o0.
B\ *llA   P ,*'<  .CUNDINAMAF  -   '               H
I -,  -~ ~ ~~~~          ICH 
60      0   M
V;TAIr$ A           A aL'  u~ E        ~-               ;U/
00,1
V' 'i IA J C  A L,  O
'-..-                 G   u  A  i    I A
..  ..         ..               ~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . . . . . . F
N AR  N ~~~~  ..  *Io,coVA                      U P ES
ICA      Q  U E'T -A                        I
P UT U M A YO
*0,,~~~~~~~~~  .* ~~~~~~~~B                      R   A   Z   I  L
U ~~~~~~  D  ~ ~ ~ 1"Coucopo
A   M  A    Z O  N  A  S
BEEF CATTLE
L. Costa.
Los LLanos                          *
DAIRY CATTLE
CoBrrcanquilela
A   SH-EF DEVEL-DF-I:T  CE!rPER                            L
(OCTOBER  1969



