CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 691 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Third Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 28, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) By the Loan Agreement (Third Power Project) of
even date herewith between International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (hereinafter called the Bank) and Electricity
Supply Commission of Malawi (hereinafter called ESCOM) (said
agreement hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank
has agreed to lend to ESCOM an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000) on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, for purposes of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the said Loan Agreement
(hereinafter called the Project);
(B) the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project by granting the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(C) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Malawi and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to lend
to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter called the Intermediate
Term Loan) in an amount in various currencies equivalent to


﻿- 2 -
eight million dollars ($8,000,000) on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, to assist
in the financing of the Project;
(D) the Project will be carried out by ESCOM with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ESCOM the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided, and the proceeds of the Intermediate
Term Loan;
(E) the Borrower and ESCOM have requested the Federal
Republic of Germany, the African Development Bank, the Commonwealth
Development Corporation, and the European Development Fund to
assist in the financing of the Project by making available additional
financing for this purpose; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to grant the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Subsidiary
Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ESCOM pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1987, and ending December 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ESCOM is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ESCOM to perform in accordance
with the provisions of Articles III, IV and V (except Section 5.05
of the Loan Agreement), and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ESCOM to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
ESCOM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ESCOM under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include repayment
of principal within 24-1/2 years, including a 4-1/2 year-grace
period, and an interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum on the outstanding
principal.


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower undertakes toward the Association,
mutatis mutandis, the obligations set forth in Sections 3.02, 3.03,
3.04 and 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement (Third Power Project)
between the Republic of Malawi and the Bank, of even date herewith,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. The events specified in Sections 6.01 and
6.02 of the Loan Agreement are specified as additional events for
purposes of Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions,
respectively; provided, however, that the references made in the
Loan Agreement to the Borrower and the Guarantor will, in this
Agreement, be deemed to be references to ESCOM and the Borrower,
respectively.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ESCOM, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement and the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement have been
fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
ESCOM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ESCOM in
accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.03. The date August 25, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
III of this Agreement and the provisions of Article IV shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower;
Action on behalf of the Association;
Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. Any action taken by the Bank regarding the
provisions contained in Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 6.01 and
6.02 of the Loan Agreement and in Schedules  2 and 4 to the Loan
Agreement shall, unless the contrary is stated, be deemed to be
taken also on behalf of the Association.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City Lilongwe 3,
Malawi
Cable address:
FINANCE
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                                440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
Nå=


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives therunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ D.Y.J. Kalilangwe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation
of the amount of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                            Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Civil works                               7,900,000
(2) Training                                   100,000
program
TOTAL               8,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficent
to finance of all expenditures in that Category, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to
the extent required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of
the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 16 -
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


