CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1388 MAI
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
Dated April 28, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI (hereinafter called
the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Malawi and International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Development
Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to grant to the
Republic of Malawi a credit (hereinafter called the Credit) in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million
dollars ($8,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, to assist in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (hereinafter
called the Project);
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Malawi and the Bank (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement), the Bank has agreed to lend
to the Republic of Malawi a loan (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan) in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000) on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement,
to assist in the financing of the Project;


﻿-2-
(C) the Republic of Malawi will lend the proceeds of such
credit and loan to the Borrower, for purposes of carrying out the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(D) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(E) the Bank and the Borrower intend that the proceeds of
the Credit be disbursed on account of expenditures for the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for
in this Agreement are made;
(F) the Bank and the Borrower intend that the proceeds of
this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of an 9:8 ratio;
(G) the Borrower and the Guarantor have requested the
African Development Bank, the Commonwealth Development Corporation
and the European Development Fund to assist in the financing of
the Project by making available additional financing for this
purpose; and
(H) the Borrower and the Guarantor have requested the
Federal Republic of Germany to assist in the financing of the
Project by making available further financing for this purpose.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agrcements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the
Loan.
(b) On ench of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and public
utility practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in matters
regarding purchase of goods and construction of civil works, and
in supervising construction under the Project, the Borrower shall
continue to employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (i) carry out or cause to
be carried out a study satisfactory to the Bank of the possible
ecological changes caused by the construction of the facilities
included in the Project; (ii) exchange views with the Bank on the
recommendations derived therefrom in order to avoid or mitigate
any undesirable ecological effect that such construction may
produce; and (iii) take all reasonable measures necessary on its
part to avoid or mitigate such effects, if any.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof


﻿- 7 -
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to reflect the progress and cost of the Project and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-8-
(z) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and conduct its business and undertaking, all in
accordance with sound business, financial and public utility
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall at all times take all necessary
steps to maintain its existence and its right to carry on
operations, and to acquire and retain all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful for the
purpose of complying with its obligations under this Agreement or
for the efficient conduct of its business and undertaking.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
the plants, machinery, equipment and other property owned or
operated by it and promptly make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
public utility practices.
(c) The Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of the property or assets owned or


﻿- 10 -
operated by it which are necessary or useful for the efficient
conduct of its business and undertaking.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Bank before making any appointment to the positions of General
Manager, Chief Engineer, Secretary and Financial Controller.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take from time to time all
such action required on its part (including, but without limitation,
action with regard to the level of its rates for the sale of


﻿- 12 -
electricity) as shall be required to provide revenues to produce
an annual rate of return on the average of its total net fixed
assets in operation of at least 12% in each of the Borrower's
fiscal years 1978 and 1979, and of at least 8% in each fiscal year
thereafter.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the rate of return in respect of any fiscal year
shall be calculated by relating the Borrower's net
income from operations for that fiscal year to the
average value of its total net fixed assets in
operation during that fiscal year;
(ii) "net income from operations" means gross operating
revenues from electric power, less all operating,
administrative and overhead expenses including
adequate straight-line depreciation, taxes if any,
or any payments in lieu thereof, but without
deduction of interest and other charges on debt;
(iii) "total net fixed assets in operation" means the
gross value of such assets, determined in
accordance with methods of valuation acceptable to
the Bank, less accumulated depreciation; and
(iv) the average value of the total net fixed assets
in operation shall be determined by adding the
value of the total net fixed assets in operation at


﻿- 13 -
the end of a fiscal year to the value of the total
net fixed assets in operation at the beginning of
that fiscal year, and dividing the total by two;
provided that if a major asset shall be brought
into operation during the fiscal year, the value of
such asset shall be included in the foregoing
computation only in proportion to the part of the
year in which such asset has been in operation.
(b) Review from time to time the structure of its tariff of
rates for the sale of electricity, and consult with the Bank on
such structure before changing any such rates.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than the debt to be
incurred pursuant to the requests referred to in Recitals (G) and
(H) of the Preamble hereto, unless its net revenues for the fiscal
year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for any later
twelve-month period ending prior to the date of such incurrence,
whichever amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means all debt of the Borrower maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
incurred;


﻿- 14 -
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a contract
or loan agreement, on the date and to the extent the amount of the
loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant thereto, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources,
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rates for the sale of
electricity in effect at the time of incurrence of debt even
though such rates were not in effect during the fiscal year or the
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses, and including
provision for taxes, if any, but before provision for
depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
(d) "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sink-.ng fund payments, if any), and
interest and otner charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value, in terms of
the currency of the Guarantor, debt denominated or payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for
the purpose of servicing such debt, or if such other currency is
not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.05. Beginning with its financial statements for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 1977, the Borrower shall annually
revalue its assets in accordance with methods acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 5.06. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
and until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall not
undertake any capital expenditure (other than the Project)
estimated to cost, in any one fiscal year of the Borrower, more
than the equivalent of $1,500,000.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Electricity Act (Cap. 73:01) of the Guarantor [as
amended,], providing for the establishment of the Borrower,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as shall materially and adversely affect the ability
of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or the Guarantor to
withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan
made to the Borrower or the Guarantor for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,


﻿- 18 -
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower or the
Guarantor to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof, that any event specified in Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement and of the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement have been fulfilled;
(b) that the Borrower's property charged by the Trust Deed
dated April 21, 1965 between the Borrower and Government of Malawi
and Barclays Bank, D. C. 0. as trustee, to secure (i) £1,850,000 A
Debenture Stock 1970/84; (ii) E200,000 7-3/4% B Debenture Stock
1970/79; and (iii) the equivalent in the currency of Malawi of
£300,000 6-3/4% C Debenture Stock 1970/94, created and issued by
the Borrower pursuant to a resolution passed by it on December 17,
1964; has been released from its security for the said A Debenture
Stock and the said C Debenture Stock, so that such stock shall be
unsecured obligations of the Borrower;
(c) that the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank to obtain funds additional to those to be obtained
pursuant to the requests referred to in Recitals (G) and (H) of
the Preamble hereto, in an amount not less than three million six
hundred thousand Malawi kwachas (the currency of the Guarantor);
and


﻿- 20 -
(d) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the agreements providing for the loans referred -o in Recital
G of the Preamble hereto, and all conditions precedent to the
first disbursement of the proceeds of the loans provided thereunder,
if any, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement and the Development Credit
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the event referred to in
Section 7.01 (b) has occurred.
Section 7.03. The date August 25, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Electricity Supply Commission
of Malawi
P.O. Box 30224 Chichiri
Blantyre 3, Malawi
Cable address:                       Telex:
ELECTRIC                            4246
Blantyre                            Blantyre


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have cau ed this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY COMMISSION OF MALAWI
By /s/ D. Y. J. Kalilangwe
Authorized Representative


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate
Term Loan, and the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category:
Amount of the Loan
and of the Intermediate
Term Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)
(1) Civil works                    13,880,000
(2) Training pro-                      120,000
gram
(3) Interest and                     1,000,000
other charges
on or before
December 31, 1980
(3) Unallocated                      2,000,000
TOTAL     17,000,000
The proceeds of this Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan
shall be withdrawn pro rata on the basis of a 9:8 ratio.


﻿- 24 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all
amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no
withdrawals shall be made from the loan accounts for the Loan or
the Intermediate Term Loan except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of this Loan Agreement and Section
1.01 of the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the Intermediate Term Loan set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the said loans then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Guarantor and the Borrower,


﻿- 25 -
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the said loans which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement or in the
Intermediate Loan Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of any of the said loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement and
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, by notice to the Guarantor
and the Borrower, cancel such amount of the said loans as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of such loans.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1976-1980 electric
power generating program. It consists of the following:
Part A:   Construction of a rock-fill dam about 7 meters high
and 700 meters long on the Shire River, at the Nkula
site, to form a reservoir and enable daily regulation
of the river flow.
Part B:   Construction of a low-pressure cut-and-cover conduit,
head-race tunnel, penstock, and tailrace outlet system
of about 1,280 meters, and a powerhouse with two
units with a generating capacity of about 18 MW each,
but designed so as to enable the installation of three
additional units of the same generating capacity each.
Part C:   A training program for the Borrower's professional and
technical staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1982
through   December 1, 1996                    290,000
On June 1, 1997                                    300,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                       Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                      1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                      2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                      4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                      8.50%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the pertinent
provisions of the General Introduction thereto, on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, [or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods]; (ii)
customs duties and othe- import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation sbll be included.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the


﻿- 30 -
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modifiation to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 31 -
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.


