Report No. PID7901
Project Name                     Lesotho-Community Development Support...
Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social Funds & Assistance (SA)
Project ID                       LSPE58050
Borrower                         Government of Lesotho
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Development Planning (Attn:
Principal Secretary)
P.O. Box 630, Maseru 100, Lesotho
Phone: (+266) 311 100; Fax: (+266) 310 281
Date this PID prepared           June 17, 1999
Appraisal date                   February 1999
Projected approval date          June 25, 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background:   Lesotho's per capita GNP of US$570
(1998) defines it as a lower-middle income country, but its social indicators
lag behind those of other countries with similar per capita incomes.
Inequitable income distribution results in a stark contrast of the poverty
level between urban and rural areas (90w of the poor live in rural areas).
Changes in the poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no
system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho.
2.      The Government of Lesotho (GOL) is committed to implementing policies
and programs designed to reduce poverty. Following the Bank-assisted Poverty
Assessment (1995), the Ministry of Development Planning (MODP) developed a
Poverty Action Plan that highlighted several key areas of reform and actions.
This process led to the development of the National Poverty Programme (NPP).
The NPP document identified, as one of its five priority areas, the
reformulation of the Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF) into a "social
fund" to support community-driven projects that benefit the poor.
3.      The LHRF was established in 1991 in order to utilize royalties from the
Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) to improve basic services and reduce
poverty. Although achievements were recorded in terms of local employment
generation and projects delivery, fund operations were constrained by
managerial, institutional and financial problems. The GOL therefore decided to
reformulate the LHRF, and replace it with a social-fund type operation with
clear criteria and procedures in place to ensure effective and transparent
operations. Extensive consultations with a wide range of stakeholders and
community members has led to a development of an Operational Manual and a
creation of a new fund, called the Lesotho Fund for Community Development
(LFCD), which was officially established in March 1999.
4.      Project Objectives:   The first objective of the project is to test
demand-driven and participatory approaches through a multi-sectoral special
fund and draw lessons on how to support community development in Lesotho. The
second objective is to test various mechanisms and tools to monitor poverty
trends in Lesotho and to coordinate national poverty monitoring and analysis
activities.



5.      Project Description:   Through a flexible Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL), the project will support a "learning process" associated with
reformulating the LHRF in a phased manner, and establish a more effective
institution for addressing poverty. It will assist the GOL in the
establishment and operationalization of the LFCD, by testing different
approaches and mechanisms (e.g., delivery mechanisms and procedures, project
cycles) and allowing for adjustments and refinements of operations through
'learning-by-doing'. The LFCD would address sectoral constraints to improved
coverage and access to economic and social infrastructure and services through
community-identified subprojects. In pursuing this objective, the project
will explore whether the LFCD can: (a) effectively promote sustainable
community development by supporting participatory project planning approaches;
and (b) address the needs of poor communities by funding participatory
community demand-driven activities in a more efficient and effective manner
than supply-driven programs.
6.      The project will also seek to contribute to the overall implementation
of national poverty reduction strategies by helping build capacity to collect
and analyze data on poverty, and evaluate the extent to which development
programs benefit the poor. One of the key tools to be tested is the Core
Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ). If successfully implemented, the
CWIQ will help track implementation of the community-based approach supported
by LFCD, and analyze its impact on poverty.
7.      The project will have the following components:
Component 1:    Support to establishment and implementation of the LFCD
1.1.    Piloting of the LFCD project cycle through projects in
22 communities and for different types of projects.
1.2.    Systems development and operationalization for LFCD
1.3.    LFCD management and coordination
Component 2:    Capacity building activities for the LFCD
2.1.    Training of LFCD staff in operational systems for
financial and project management
2.2.    Training for LFCD partner institutions
(communities, central and district level government staff,
local governments, NGOs, private sector)
Component 3:    National Poverty Program   implementation and monitoring
3.1.    Data for poverty monitoring
3.2.    Program monitoring and poverty analysis
8.      Project Financing:   The total project cost is estimated at US$10.4
million (GOL $5.7 million; IDA $4.7 million and communities $0.1 million).
9.      Project Implementation:   The Ministry of Development Planning (MODP)
will have the overall responsibility for overseeing project implementation.
The day-to-day management of Component 1 and 2 will rest with the LFCD, which
will have a Board and a Management Unit. The Bureau of Statistics and the
Department of Sectoral Programming of MODP will have the primary
responsibility for executing the respective sub-component of Component 3.
10.     Project Sustainability:   Sustainability of LFCD sub-projects will be
ensured through maintaining adequate technical standards as defined by the
-2 -



respective sector ministries and through involvement of various partners who
will support the community. A high degree of community participation at all
stages of subproject cycles including community contributions and maintenance
thereafter will also help ensure sustainability of subprojects.
Sustainability of poverty monitoring component will be ensured through
building on the existing institutional arrangements and comparative advantages
of different institutions to provide and analyze poverty data, and by
introducing simple but effective tools for data collection and analysis, which
can be sustained beyond project life.
11.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:    The supply-
driven approach of GOL programs in the past was not able to meet the needs of
the poor in the most effective and timely manner. IDA operations supporting
GOL programs/projects have also experienced weak management capacity in
government agencies and slow disbursement. Experiences from other countries
show that social funds can provide effective mechanisms to respond quickly to
communities' needs and disburse funds, and that communities have the capacity
to identify and manage projects.
12.     Poverty Category: The project addresses poverty reduction as a medium-
to long term goal, improving the quality of life and well being of the poor,
and encouraging their participation and self-help in their own development.
Special attention will be paid to the potential impact of the LFCD on the
poor. Improved capacity in poverty monitoring will strengthen the GOL's
ability to systematically measure poverty levels and the impact of the LFCD
and sector programs.
13.     Environmental Aspects:   While the majority of the sub-projects are
expected to be small and community-based and their environmental impacts are
anticipated to be insignificant, the following areas require attention: (a)
potential negative environmental impacts of relatively large subprojects; and
(b) potential positive impacts through LFCD's community sensitization
activities and through subprojects aimed at improving natural resource
management. Environmental screening, review and assessment of potential
environmental impacts of investments will be an integral part of the LFCD
subproject cycles. To the extent available, the LFCD will apply existing
standards for environmental impact analysis/assessments and for measures to
safeguard environment from potential negative impacts. The environmental
rating is "B".
14.     Project Objective Category:   The project objective category is poverty
reduction.
Contact Points:
Task Manager
Norbert Mugwagwa
(202) 473-8415
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
-3-



Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 25, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



