Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18387
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
(US$4.67 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
December 22, 1999
Human Development I
Country Department I
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 17, 1999)
Currency Unit = Maloti
M 1.00 =  US$0.16
US$1 = M 6.24
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AT          Area Team
BOS         Bureau of Statistics, Ministry of Development Planning
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDSP        Community Development Support Project
CPC         Community Project Committee
CWIQ        Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DMT         District Management Team
DSP        Department of Sectoral Programming, Ministry of Development Planning
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EU         European Union
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
GOL         Govermnent of Lesotho
IDA         International Development Association
IEC         Informnation, Education and Communication
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCU        Labor Construction Unit, Ministry of Works
LFCD        Lesotho Fund for Community Development
LHRF        Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund
LHWP        Lesotho Highlands Water Project
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MODP        Ministry of Development Planning
MU         Management Unit
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NPP         National Poverty Program
NES         National Environmental Secretariat
OM          Operational Manual
PCA         Participatory Community Assessments
PMR         Project Management Report
PMT         Poverty Monitoring Team
RRA        Revenue Receiving Account
SACU        Southern Africa Customs Union
VDC        Village Development Councils
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Pamela Cox
Sector Manager: Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader: Norbert Mugwagwa



Lesotho
Community Development Support Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ............................                                                         ......................................... 2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ................................................ 2
2. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .....................................................................                                                                 2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..................................................................... 3
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPOTED BY THE PROJECT ............... 3
2.  MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND  GOVERNMENT STRATEGY ..............................................                                            ....................... 3
3. LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY LIL .............................................................. 5
4. LEARNING AND INNOVATION EXPECTATIONS .....................................................................                                                       6
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .....................................................................                                                                8
1 . PROJECT COMPONENTS .....................................................................  8
2. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS .....................................................................   8
3. MONITORING  AND EVALUATION  ARRANGEMENTS .......................................1.............................. I 
D: PROJECT RATIONALE ..................................................................... 12
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ...................................................... 12
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES .............. 14
3 . INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ................................................................... 15
4. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT IN TIUS PROJECT .....................................................................                                               15
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS .....................................................................                                                                 15
1. ECONOMIC .....................................................................                                                                                  15
2. FINANCIAL .....................................................................                                                                                 16
3. TECHNICAL .....................................................................                                                                                 17
4. INSTITUTIONAL .....................................................................                                                                             17
5. SOCIAL .....................................................................                                                                                    17
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ..................................................................... 18
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .....................................................................                                                                    19
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ..................................................................... 20
1 . SUSTAINABILrIY .....................................................................                                                                           20
2. CRITICAL RISKS .....................................................................                                                                           21
3.  POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ..................................................................... 22
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .....................................................................                                                                     22
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .....................                                                                                                                 22
2. OTHER ......................22
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ................................. 23
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ................................. 23



List of Annexes
Annex 1:     Project Design Summary
Annex 2:     Project Description
Annex 3:     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 5:     Letter of Policy relating to the Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (10/23/1998)
Annex 6:     Summary of Project Workplan
Annex 7:     Organizational Structure of LFCD
Annex 8:     LFCD Project Cycles for Technically Complex and Simple Sub-projects
Annex 9:     Summary of Participatory Community Assessment
Annex 10:    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 11:    Documents in the Project File*
Annex 12:    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 13:    Country at a Glance



Lesotho
Community Development Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Southern Africa Country Department
Date: December 22, 1999                             Task Team Leader: Norbert Mugwagwa
Country Director: Pamela Cox                        Sector Manager: Dzingai Mutumbuka
Project ID: LE-PE-58050      Sector: Multi sector   Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [1  No
Project Financing Data     [  Loan    [X] Credit        [  Guarantee    I  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 4.67 million/SDR 3.6 MILLION
Proposed terms:                       [X] Multicurrency      [3  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed    [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5% (but at present is waived)
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source:                                                Local           Foreign           Total
Govermnent        5.02            0.65             5.67
IDA        2.92            1.75             4.67
Communities       0.11-             0.0            0.11
Total       8.05            2.39            10.44
Borrower:    Kingdom of Lesotho
Guarantor:    N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Development Planning
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   2000         2001        2002        2003       2004
Annual   .162         1.898      1.617        .763        .230
Cumulative   .162        2.060       3.677       4.440      4.670
Cumulative %    3.5%       56.7%      78.7%       95.1%      100.0%
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date:   April 1, 2000
Expected closing date:    March 31, 2003



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                       Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The first objective of the Community Development Support Project (CDSP) is to test demand-driven and
participatory approaches through a multi-sectoral special fund and draw lessons on how to support
community development in Lesotho. In pursuing this objective, the project will explore whether the
Lesotho Fund for Community Development (LFCD) can: (a) effectively promote sustainable community
development by supporting participatory project planning approaches; and (b) address the needs of poor
communities by funding participatory community demand-driven activities in a more efficient and
effective manner than supply-driven programs.
The second objective is to test various mechanisms and tools to monitor poverty trends in Lesotho and
to coordinate national poverty monitoring and analysis activities. The project will seek to contribute to
the overall implementation of national poverty reduction strategies by helping build capacity to collect and
analyze data on poverty, and evaluate the extent to which development programs benefit the poor. One of
the key tools to be tested is the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ). If successfully
implemented, the CWIQ will help track implementation of the community-based approach supported by
LFCD, and analyze its impact on poverty.
2. Key performance indicators:
The success of this project will be evaluated against how and to what extent the lessons learnt from each
stage of the project are incorporated in the next steps. Since this is a LIL, the project will measure the
incremental changes of effectiveness or impact of the methodology and approaches taken by the LFCD or
in poverty monitoring and analyses, rather than the absolute levels of impact made. The following
indicators will be used to evaluate the project performance against the Project Development Objectives:
*  A practical and appropriate methodology adopted for community needs assessments and
participatory planning process, and for appraisal, implementation and maintenance for community
demand-driven sub-projects, with a view to ac4ieving the LFCD's goal of poverty reduction
(indicated through a revised OM, beneficiary assessments, and evaluation reports).
+  Expected benefits to be generated by sub-project assessed by gauging, inter alia: the level of
satisfaction from the users of facilities developed under the sub-project; the efficiency of
operations and maintenance of said facilities; poverty targeting (e.g. resources allocated to poor
communities, types of investment with higher impact on the poor); and relevance of investment to
community needs (indicated through post-completion evaluations of sub-projects, beneficiary
assessments, household surveys, and evaluation reports).
*  Semi-annual reports on LFCD's activities and operations submitted to the IDA, no later than 45
days after the end of every six months.
* A strategy, reflecting the lessons learnt and acceptable to IDA, adopted by June 30, 2002, to
support community development, including an action plan for the future of the LFCD.
*  The Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaires (CWIQ) piloted and its effectiveness and adequacy as
a tool for poverty monitoring evaluated.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 3
* A strategy or an action plan, reflecting the lessons learnt and acceptable to IDA, adopted by
September 30, 2002, to monitor poverty data and trends at the national level.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 1775 1-LSO         Date of latest CAS discussion: June 4, 1998
The Board approved the CAS on June 4, 1998. The objectives of the CAS are to support the GOL's
development agenda of promoting poverty reduction as articulated in various policy documents and to
support its efforts to sustain macroeconomic performance through greater integration into the sub-regional
economy. The CAS emphasized the need for progress in GOL's poverty reduction effort is critical; one
component of such effort would be the reformulation the Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF) - a
special fund established in order to effectively utilize royalties from water exported to South Africa under
the Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP). Reform of the LHRF to increase its effectiveness and its
impact on poverty, as well as the strengthening the national monitoring systems to improve poverty data in
Lesotho, are identified as core activities in the CAS. Implementation and progress in these areas are also
defined as a trigger for continuing in the High Case Scenario where Lesotho now is.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty in Lesotho: With its per capita GNP of US$570 (1998), Lesotho is defined as one of the lower-
middle income countries, and has achieved relatively rapid GDP growth in recent years (7.2 percent per
annum for 1990-98). However, its social indicators (e.g., an infant mortality rate of 74 per 1,000, a net
primary school enrollment ratio of 65%) leave much to be desired compared to those of other countries
with similar per capita incomes. In addition, because of the country's inequitable income distribution, the
incidence of poverty varies dramatically. In particular, of the nearly 50 percent of the population that is
defined as poor, 90 percent live in rural areas. Poverty in the mountain and Senqu valley zone (e.g.,
Thaba-Tseka, Mokhotlong, and Quthing) is far more severe and widespread than in the lowlands and
foothills. Continuing high levels of unemployment (the official rate is 35 percent) and underemployment
are one of the leading causes of poverty, with declining demand for Basotho workers in South African
mines aggravating the situation. However, changes in the poverty status are not systematically monitored,
as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho.
Service coverage is generally higher in urban than in rural areas, with correspondingly better indicators of
social development, though this is not always the case in peri-urban areas where many of the urban poor
reside. In health and education, access to basic education and health services has been one of the major
constraints, especially in remote areas, although the problem is compounded by the low service quality as
well as the inadequate recurrent funding and weak capacity in management and service delivery. Provision
of clean water and sanitation facilities is also disproportionately low in rural areas. Less than half of rural
households had access to clean water in 1994, and sanitation facilities were available to even fewer
households (less than 20 percent), while the equivalent figures for urban areas were 80-85 percent and 60
percent respectively. Lack of adequate roads is perceived to be a major bottleneck by many communities
in rural areas, inhibiting them from taking advantage of economic opportunities and essential services.
Prospects in agriculture are limited with only 9% of total land area is suitable for cultivation. A
combination of overgrazing, soil erosion, and inadequate forest cover not only adds further constraints to
agricultural productivity, but also poses a serious challenge in managing Lesotho's vulnerable
environment and natural resources in a sustainable manner.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 4
Poverty reduction strategies: GOL is committed to implementing policies and programs designed to
reduce poverty. In particular, the Ministry of Development Planning (MODP) has undertaken a systematic
approach to identifying programs and projects specifically targeted at the poor and poor communities.
Following the Bank-assisted Poverty Assessment (1995), MODP developed a Poverty Action Plan that
highlighted several key areas of reform and actions, including support for participatory community-driven
projects for poverty reduction using LHWP royalties. This process led to the development of the National
Poverty Programme (NPP), which was presented and discussed at a sectoral Round Table Conference of
donors in November, 1997. The NPP document identified, as one of its five priority areas, the
reformulation of the LHRF into a "social fund" to support community-driven projects that benefit the poor.
The report pointed out that, as an activity complementary to sectoral programs implemented by various line
ministries, a social fund has the potential to support a "bottom-up" approach to development by
empowering communities and local institutions to deal with their own priorities and concerns.
Effective use of the LHRF for poverty reduction through participatory community-driven
development: The Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP) is one of the most ambitious multi-purpose
projects in Lesotho. By exporting water through a series of dams and tunnels to South Africa, its royalties
alone generate substantial resources to support Lesotho's economic development goals (about $45 million
annually or 10% of Government revenues). In order to utilize such LHWP royalties to improve basic
services for the population and reduce poverty, GOL established by the Act No. 82 of 1991 an extra-
budgetary fund called, Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF). The establishment of the LHRF
provided a potentially effective mechanism to utilize the fund to improve the quality and quantity of basic
services for the population and to reduce poverty. Although achievements were recorded in terms of local
employment generation and projects delivery, the fund operations were constrained by managerial,
institutional and financial problems. A recent audit has shown that the Fund did not have solid
mechanisms in place to ensure adequate standards of technical appraisal and supervision for project
sustainability; neither were there sufficient internal controls to adequately account for all LHRF
expenditures. Various other reports also attest to the technical and institutional difficulties LHRF was
attempting to deal with.
GOL therefore decided to reformulate the LHRF, and replace it with a social-fund type operation with clear
criteria and procedures in place to ensure effective and transparent operations. In so doing, GOL
deliberately chose a participatory, consultative approach to obtain the views of a wide range of
stakeholders and community members, and to build consensus on the design of the new fund. First, the
objectives and key features of the reformulated fund were agreed through consultations with key
stakeholders, and spelt out in a Letter of Policy of March 23, 1998 (see Annex 5). This was followed by
consultations with various levels of stakeholders, from community members at the grass-roots level
through to broader civil society organizations and the government agencies and ministries. The results of
these extensive consultations have been incorporated into the design of the reformulated fund, which is to
be named as the Lesotho Fund for Community Development (LFCD). An Operational Manual has been
developed that describes project cycles and operational procedures. A new Legal Notice No. 16 of 1999
was passed in March 10, 1999, which has officially established the LFCD, and replaced the old LHRF.
Decentralization: Concurrent to this reformulation process, GOL was also finalizing initial arrangements
for implementing the new Local Government Act (1997), which deals with the decentralization of
government ministries at a sub-national level and the establishment of revised structures of democratic
local government. The new local level structures will require some time and support to establish
themselves and to develop the capacity to be effective, responsive, action-oriented units. It is hoped that
the decentralization process will lead to an improvement in the orientation of government staff toward
communities, promote greater transparency and accountability, and empower district-level staff and
communities to have greater decision-making authority over local-level issues.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 5
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by LIL
Use of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) is justified since the project will test a participatory demand-
driven approach and project planning to community development that is relatively new to Lesotho, and will
support a "learning process" in reformulating the existing Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF) into a
social-fund type operation called, Lesotho Fund for Community Development (LFCD).
Lesotho's development programs have traditionally been supply-driven, and have not successfully
implemented demand-driven community development projects, identified by use of participatory planning
approaches, in a sustainable manner. While there have been many previous programs and projects to
support elements of a community-based approach, they have usually been partial, of limited duration, and
reliant on donor funding. New local government structures are still not in place and will require time to
develop and be institutionalized. While substantial preparatory work and conceptualization has been done
by GOL, there is a need to test and refine the procedures and to try out various approaches through actual
implementation to see what will work and how in the local context.
Moreover, given the past experience of the LHRF, the LFCD will require extra effort in demonstrating that
it has overcome some of the main problems it has experienced in the past. To overcome some of these past
problems the LFCD must have clear criteria and mechanisms to: target the poor, identify the needs of such
communities, involve communities in the management and implementation of the projects, manage the
operations and administration of the LFCD, supervise the quality of projects, and make adequate provisions
for operations and maintenance.
The project will test the project cycle initially in 22 communities, where participatory community
assessments were conducted during the preparation phase. The lessons learnt from this initial phase will be
incorporated in the operations thereafter when the LFCD operations expand to other localities. The project
will periodically review the progress of implementation and the performance of the LFCD, and assess the
adequacy of the institutional set-up, management structures, operational procedures, and project cycles.
GOL, in collaboration with the World Bank, will assess the performance of the LFCD, and will make a
decision on subsequent steps (e.g., scaling up the operations, adjusting/revising the modality).
In addition to the testing of new institutions and mechanisms, the project will attempt to foster behavioral
changes of the development agencies/partners (e.g., line ministries, local governments, NGOs, the private
sector) to become more responsive to the community demands, rather than prescribing development needs
for the communities through top-down planning. In that respect, the LFCD will support GOL's effort to
decentralize decision-making to the grass-roots level by empowering communities to manage resources for
their own development.
There is also a need to strengthen capacity in monitoring the status of poverty in Lesotho. The current
status is characterized by weak institutional and human resource capacity in poverty monitoring and
analysis, and insufficiently coordinated activities (e.g., studies, surveys) that result in duplications and
difficulties in data comparison and time series analyses. Due to the cross-cutting nature of poverty,
coordination at the inter-ministerial level is critical, especially in monitoring and analyzing poverty trends.
The flexible LIL instrument will permit the testing of different approaches, and allow for adjustments and
refinements of operations through 'learning-by-doing'. Through continuous review and monitoring of the
LFCD's performance, the LIL will provide instruments and technical assistance to constantly revise and
refine the project cycles and operational modalities to address implementation problems, and test
alternative approaches and mechanisms where appropriate. In addition, the poverty monitoring component



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                         Page 6
will complement the LFCD's effort by providing updated poverty data and analysis to help monitor the
impact on poverty.
4. Learning and Innovation Expectations:
[X] Economic [X] Financial [ ] Technical [X] Institutional
[X] Social [ ]Environmental [X] Participation [ ] Other
Key areas to be tested and further developed under the project include:
*  LFCD's governance and institutional structures: The project will support GOL's effort to establish
the governance and institutional structures that ensure adherence to the LFCD's goals and guiding
principles, as well as its transparency and accountability. Collaboration with and participation of non-
government stakeholders (including communities themselves) will be critical for successful
implementation of a participatory demand-driven fund, as well as for creating accountable systems.
The project will continuously monitor the effectiveness of the LFCD's govemance and management
structure and its effect on operations.
*  Different project cycles and management suitable for various types of sub-projects: The initial
list of subproject types that could be eligible for LFCD funding include a wide range of areas: e.g.,
social and economic infrastructure and community-based assets (e.g., feeder roads, footbridges, rural
water supplies, VIP latrines, schools, health posts/clinics, markets); community-based environment and
resource management (e.g., soil conservation, tree planting, land reclamation); support to small-scale
agricultural production (e.g., small-scale irrigation, small damns, improvement of vegetable production);
and income-generating activities (e.g., cottage industries, small-scale manufacturing). However,
different procedures, criteria, and technical standards will need to be applied to various subprojects.
Community-managed assets and development activities are to be purely community-managed; i.e., the
community will identify, plan, manage, implement, and maintain subprojects, with technical support
from relevant partners as needed. On the other hand, larger-scale, technically complex projects are to
be identified by communities but to be managed and implemented by experts (e.g., private contractors,
line ministries) due to their complexity. Details of these two project cycles as well as roles and
responsibilities of each player are described in the Operational Manual. These project cycles and
procedures will be tested and adjusted to suit various types of subprojects. For income-generating
activities, the experience in Lesotho will be reviewed to determine how best income-generating
activities could be supported in Lesotho. Based on this study the LFCD would decide on how it could
best facilitate income generation activities. Findings of the review will help determine types of
interventions in this area, and if so decided, the LIL will test support to income-generating activities.
*  Community-based planning, prioritization, implementation, monitoring and maintenance:
Building on the past experience and effort, the project will support further testing and strengthening of
community planning and prioritization methods to learn how best the community could be facilitated to
articulate their needs and priorities in a participatory manner. The existing capacity in the community
to plan, implement, monitor and maintain subprojects will be tapped, utilized and strengthened to the
extent possible, and appropriate approaches and partners for effective facilitation will be identified.
*  Checks and balances mechanisms for community representation, accountability, and
sustainability: The project will help LFCD try out various options to ensure that: (i) the choice of
projects truly represents the needs and priorities of the community, particularly the poor; (ii) LFCD
resources are used and managed properly; and (iii) LFCD-funded projects are technically, financially,



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 7
and environmentally sustainable. In addition to conventional internal, administrative controls, other
methods will be explored and tested, such as built-in verification methods for community consensus at
several stages of the project cycle, increased transparency to the community on the LFCD operations,
and community involvement in resource management including direct financing to the community.
*  Poverty "targeting" mechanisms: The project will assist LFCD to define and refine mechanisms to
"target" the poor by balancing its participatory demand-driven nature with its goal of poverty
reduction. This could be done through various criteria built in the operational design and resource
allocation mechanisms. For instance, the LFCD could ensure that resources would benefit the poor by:
giving greater resource allocation to poorer districts and localities; setting the limit in project size or
amount to support small-scale operations; specifying eligible types; giving greater weight to those sub-
projects which would have higher impact on the poor; and, if cash transfer is involved, setting the rates
at levels which are "self-targeting" to attract only the poor and the destitute.
*  Efficiency, Effectiveness and Impact on Community Development: The project will test the
participatory demand-driven mechanisms through a multi-sectoral special fund, which is expected to
respond to communities' needs more efficiently (e.g., speedy fund disbursement) and more effectively
in a sustainable manner (e.g., project identification according to needs, greater community participation
in management and maintenance). During the course of the project, the performance of LFCD
operations will be closely monitored and evaluated to assess its efficiency, effectiveness, and impact on
community development compared to other government programs.
*  National Poverty Monitoring and Analysis: The project will pilot a Core Welfare Indicator
Questionnaire (CWIQ) and will assess whether the CWIQ presents an appropriate instrument to
strengthen the country's capacity to monitor poverty. The project will also contribute to strengthening
the institutional and human resource capacity to periodically update and analyze poverty data. It will
also try out various approaches and mechanisms to coordinate poverty monitoring and analysis
activities under the National Poverty Program (NPP). The GOL's capacity will be strengthened
through the existing inter-ministerial Poverty Task Force and a Poverty Monitoring Team to be
established in MODP.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 and 3for a detailed description and cost breakdown):
Component               Category     Cost Incl.    9/o of   Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total   financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)  financing
1. Support to establishment and
implementation of the LFCD
[Implementing agency: LFCD]
1.1 Piloting of the LFCD project  Subproject        1.3       13%         1.2     26%
cycle through projects in 22      investment
communities and for different types   costs
of projects
1.2 Systems development and       Institution      2.2        21%        1.5      31%
operationalization for LFCD       building
1.3 LFCD management and           Operational      4.1        40%          -
coordination                      costs
2. Capacity building activities for
the LFCD lImplementing agency:
LFCDJ
2.1 Training of LFCD staff in    Institution        0.3         3%       0.2        5%
operational systems for financial and   building
project management
2.2 Training for LFCD partner     Institution       1.1        11%        0.7      15%
institutions (communities, central and  building
district level government staff, local
governments, NGOs, private sector)
3. National Poverty Program
implementation and monitoring
3.1 Data for poverty monitoring   Institution      0.8         7%        0.7       14%
[Implementing agency: BOS/MODP]  building
3.2 Program monitoring and poverty  Institution     0.6         6%        0.4       9%
analysis [Implementing agency:    building
DSP/MODP]                           ._                               l
TOTAL                                              10.4      100%         4.7    100%
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing Agencies: The Ministry of Development Planning will have the overall responsibility of
overseeing the implementation of the project. The actual execution and day-to-day management of each
component is as follows:



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 9
(i)    LFCD-related components (e.g., community sub-projects, systems development, and capacity
building): implementation responsibility of these components will rest with LFCD. Close collaboration
with other government agencies, LFCD's other institutional partners and participating communities will be
ensured at the national level, the District Development Councils, District Development Coordinating
Councils and the District Management Teams at the district level, and Area Teams, Village Development
Councils/Community Councils at the local level. At the community level, a Community Project Committee
(CPC) will be popularly elected by the community to coordinate and administer planning and
implementation of LFCD subprojects.
An Operational Manual (OM) to guide the implementation of the LFCD has been prepared by a team
made up of Government and other stakeholders. The OM is a living document that will be continuously
modified, subject to agreements between GOL and IDA, as new lessons are learnt and incorporated for
future use. It includes the basic guidelines for the sub-project cycle, procurement of goods and services,
disbursement arrangements, accounting and reporting requirements. Various handbooks/manuals (e.g., a
Community Handbook, a Procurement Manual, a Financial Management Manual, and a Maintenance
Manual) will be developed based on the OM, to be used by LFCD staff, stakeholders, and community
members to assist them in the implementation of the various activities. These handbooks that explain
stakeholder roles and responsibilities as well as technical guidelines for specific activities will be revised
continuously as implementation proceeds.
(ii)   NPP implementation and monitoring component: the Bureau of Statistics (BOS), a unit under the
MODP, will have the primary responsibility for executing the Data for Poverty Monitoring sub-
component. The management of the Program Monitoring and Poverty Analysis sub-component will be
located under the Department of Sectoral Programming (DSP), MODP, which is coordinating the
implementation of NPP through an inter-ministerial Poverty Task Force. GOL will assign a small Poverty
Monitoring Team (about 3 staff) on a full-time basis to be responsible for coordinating poverty monitoring
activities, and also serve as a secretariat for the inter-ministerial Poverty Task Force. For simplicity, the
LFCD Management Unit (MU) will provide administrative and financial management services to Bureau
of Statistics and Department of Sectoral Planning, by facilitating procurement and disbursement under the
project.
Institutional Set-up for LFCD: LFCD will have delegated authority with respect to management and
decision- making on operational matters of the Fund. It will have three levels of management: (i) the
LFCD Board; (ii) the Management Unit, and (iii) ten District Offices at the district level.
The LFCD Board will consist of representatives from the Government, parastatals, NGOs, the private
sector, and community representatives. The Board will provide policy oversight over the MU, and monitor
the compliance of the LFCD operations with the Fund policy and guidelines as well as the impact of the
Fund on poverty. The LFCD Board will be accountable to the Prime Minister, and also to the public
through open disclosure policy of LFCD's key documents such as annual reports of operations and
activities, audit reports, and independent evaluation reports.
The Management Unit (MU) will be headed by the Executive Director, and will have three Departments,
Finance and Administration; Project Operations, and Technical Services; and three Support Units,
Management Information, Communication and Capacity Building, and Internal Audit. The Executive
Director reports to the LFCD Board, and is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the LFCD. The
MU staff will be recruited through a competitive process based on their qualifications and experience. The
appointment of a qualified professional as Executive Director is a condition for credit effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                        Page 10
District Offices: The central level will be supported by ten District Offices, each of which will be headed
by a District Officer (DO), assisted by a Technical Officer and an Administrative Assistant. District
Offices will have staff to assist communities identify, design, plan, implement and supervise subprojects as
well as staff for office administration, accounting and technical supervision. The head of the District
Office should be trained in participatory and community development, good at community relations and a
communicator, skilled in management, self motivated and knowledgeable about the workings of
government that include decentralized administration.
At different phases of the project cycle, the MU and its District Officers will collaborate with existing
partners/stakeholders: e.g., the District Development Committees; the District Management Teams; NGOs;
private contractors; the Local Authorities; and relevant sector officers from the national ministries of local
government, works, health, education, water, agriculture, etc. To strengthen LFCD's collaboration with
sectoral ministries, sector officers from government ministries, will be assigned to: (a) provide detailed
information to the MU on sectoral gaps, policies and norrns; (b) give feedback on issues arising from sub-
project implementation; (c) obtain sectoral approval of subprojects for inclusion in LFCD work program;
(d) ensure sectoral recurrent budget covers assets created under LFCD; and (d) staff responsibilities
include LFCD projects activities. Involvement of extension workers from the line ministries and NGOs
will be essential for the success of LFCD. Circulars articulating the roles and responsibilities of sector
officers and extension workers in supporting LFCD activities will be issued by the respective Principal
Secretaries of the key ministries to all their staff.
Financial Management: The Management Unit (MU) of the LFCD will be responsible for ensuring that
financial management and reporting procedures for the project meet GOL and the World Bank standards.
Experience from other Bank projects in Lesotho (except for the LHWP) has shown lack of adequate
capacity in financial management. In order to address this concern, a time-bound Financial Management
Action Plan has been developed to lay out an essential institutional set-up and internal control mechanisms
as well as to set forth necessary actions for systems development for sound financial management, and
incorporated in the Operational Manual (Key issues and actions in the Plan are outlined below and in
Annex 4). Additionally, the establishment of the Department of Finance and Administration, and the
Internal Audit Unit, as well as the appointment of competent professionals to key posts, such as Director of
Finance and Administration, Chief Accountant, and Internal Auditor would be critical to sound financial
management. A Financial Procedures Manual will be developed to facilitate the implementation. An
independent external auditor will be appointed to carry out annual audits (as well as semi-annual reviews
until the Internal Audit Unit develops adequate capacity). The appointment of a qualified professional such
as Director of Finance and Administration as well as the establishment of an adequate financial
management and accounting system are conditions for credit effectiveness.
At this early juncture of planning the establishment of LFCD's financial management system, LFCD is not
yet ready for disbursements based on Project Management Reports (PMR), as discussed in the World
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short-
termn, existing World Bank disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook, will be followed. The appointment of key staff for financial management as well as the
engagement of a short-term consultant should facilitate the establishment and development of LFCD's
financial management system and the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of
credit effectiveness (an action plan will be completed by September 30, 2001). In that regard, a financial
management review of the project should be undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management
Specialist in about 12 months of credit effectiveness (March 2001) to assess progress.
Management of Community Sub-projects: A Community Project Committee (CPC) will be popularly
elected by the community to help organize the planning and implementation of LFCD-financed sub-



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                     Page 11
projects. A CPC will include: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary, Deputy Secretary, Treasurer, and
others committee members. Upon approval of a sub-project, a Project Financing Agreement will be signed
between the LFCD and the Community, which describes terms and conditions of LFCD financing,
community contributions, responsibilities of each party, with project description and specifications attached
(a draft form has been developed).
3. Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements:
Effective monitoring and evaluation of the project are critical in order to assess the performance of the pre-
test and subsequent operations, analyze the effects and impact of implementation, and draw lessons and
experiences to be incorporated in any adjustments or modifications of the design and processes of the
LFCD. It is also important to ensure that the LFCD, government ministries and other participating
institutions can learn from the activities supported by the project. To achieve this, project performance will
be monitored and evaluated through various means at different levels, each providing input into a learning
process for the institutions involved.
First, various mechanisms will be built in the design of the LFCD's project cycle to monitor the progress
and quality of subprojects. Monitoring indicators will be developed for each subproject based on an
indicative list in the OM (with technical support from partners as needed), which will be important criteria
for final project approval. Technical standards of subprojects will be ensured and monitored by maintaining
close links with line ministries at all stages (e.g., appraisal, approval, supervision), using existing technical
standards to the extent possible, involving other partners (e.g., NGOs, private contractors) who have
technical expertise, and emphasizing rigorous supervision and reporting of subproject implementation.
During subproject implementation, the Community Project Sub-committee will closely monitor the
progress and submit monthly reports to the LFCD's District Office and the VDC. LFCD's District Officers
(DO), in collaboration with DMT, will carry out periodic site visits and submit reports to the MU. Upon
completion, site visits will be conducted by DO and DMT, and a certificate will be issued by the MU.
Subprojects will be evaluated 12 months after completion during another site visit by DO and DMT.
Second, overall physical outputs financed by LFCD will be recorded through the Fund's MIS, which will
be designed and implemented during the pilot phase of LFCD operations. LFCD's MIS will provide data
on project types and loan processing indicators (e.g., number of applications, number and types of
approved subprojects by geographical areas). In addition, when linked to data from the financial and
accounting system as well as reports from the District Offices, the MIS will enable assessments of an
overall picture of LFCD performance and potential impact on poverty in terms of delivering projects cost-
effectively (e.g., time elapsed between applications and approvals, speed of disbursement).
Third, capacity building activities and participation of partner institutions to LFCD operations (e.g., line
ministries, NGOs, private sector) will be monitored through: types and number of training and IEC
activities carried out for these partner institutions; incidence and nature of their participation to assist
communities (e.g., facilitation for community-based planning, technical support in design or
implementation of subprojects, physical implementation as "contractors" to communities, supervision of
subproject implementation).
Fourth, LFCD will undertake various periodic assessments aimed at providing a broader evaluation of
performance. These assessments will include: annual audits by qualified auditors; annual performance
reviews; an evaluation carried out by independent reviewers by March 2003 (six months before the credit
closing date); community-level assessments designed to assess community satisfaction with the LFCD; and
special studies (e.g., gender or environmental impacts of LFCD operations). Terms of reference for an
independent evaluation will be agreed between the Government and IDA, and will assess, inter alia:



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 12
effectiveness and timely delivery of LFCD operations to meet the community demand and provide support;
quality and sustainability of LFCD supported projects; effectiveness of the participatory planning process
to identify community's priorities and their potential impact on the poor; capacity and participation of
community-based organizations to plan and manage projects; capacity of the private and non-governmental
sector, local institutions, line ministries to support community-driven projects; and capacity in national
poverty monitoring and programming.
Fifth, the poverty monitoring component of the project will generate, monitor and evaluate poverty-related
indicators for each key sector. Also, the CWIQ will assess access, use and level of satisfaction among
users for key social and economic goods and services, e.g., education, health, infrastructure, natural
resource management, and agricultural services. These broader poverty measures provide an important
overall indicator of the extent to which the LFCD, as well as other government policies and programs, are
having a positive impact on reducing poverty, though such impact is not likely to be observed during the
project life.
Last but not least, the performance of the poverty monitoring component will be monitored through: the
number and quality of poverty indicators produced, outputs from surveys, analyses and studies on poverty;
the number and types of training carried out to strengthen GOL's capacity for poverty monitoring; and the
increase in such capacity as observed in the number of trained staff in place to lead poverty monitoring
activities.
The World Bank will supervise the project through a task team leader who will carry overall responsibility
for carrying out and leading supervision missions. There will be two supervision missions each year
consisting of a team of sector and operational specialists. The missions will study the implementation
records and reports, accounts and audits, MIS data retained by the MU, and make sample visits to District
Offices, selected project sites, and participating communities. In addition, GOL through LFCD will submit
to the Bank a copy of LFCD's reports including quarterly financial disbursement reports, semi-annual
implementation reports, and annual audit reports. GOL will also send to IDA in a timely manner a copy of
all other evaluation/assessment reports on LFCD's performance. A beneficiary assessment will be carried
out and completed by about 18 months after the inception of the project (August 31, 2001) to obtain
community's views and feedback on the LFCD. Its results will feed into a mid-term review of the project
to be carried out in about September 2001 in collaboration between GOL and the Bank. About six months
before the closing date (by March 2003), an independent evaluation will be completed to assess: (i)
whether the project has accomplished its objectives; (ii) effectiveness of the LFCD operations, the
institutional structure and management, and the operational procedures, and (iii) the extent of capacity
strengthening for LFCD operations (among all partners) and for poverty monitoring. The GOL and the
Bank will jointly review the findings of the evaluation, and will agree on next steps and follow-up actions
for the LFCD after the project.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
GOL has considered channeling all the royalty revenues from the LHWP through the Consolidated Fund
and utilizing regular budget mechanisms to support the sectoral public expenditure program but decided
against it. The main reason for that was that centrally-driven implementation has achieved only limited
success in improving service delivery, especially for poor communities, with ministries struggling to find
effective mechanisms of support. Central government decision-making and bureaucratic processing has
not encouraged the participation of poorer communities as effectively as projects supported under the
community demand-driven approaches. This is consistent with government's emphasis on



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                    Page 13
decentralization. Weakness in financial management systems and inadequate capacity in the government
are not conducive for quick and timely disbursement to respond to the community. [Effort is underway
through a separate operation to strengthen overall financial management systems and capacity in the
government.] As a result, GOS decided to set aside part of the LHWP royalties for a social fund operation
through the LFCD.
The use of alternative implementing agencies was also considered. While NGOs could and will provide
important complementary activities to the LFCD MU, the NGO community in Lesotho remains small with
limited capacity, and the current legal structure makes it difficult to distinguish community groups and
development NGOs from politically-oriented ones. The subproject cycles of the LFCD will include checks
to ensure the legitimacy of participating NGOs, and is intended to foster government-NGO partnership as
well as strengthen NGOs' capacity to be facilitators and technical support group for the community. A
further proposal to continue to use of Members of Parliament as the conduit for community financing was
also rejected, as this approach did not work well during the initial operations of the LHRF.
The use of regular investment credit as a lending instrument was considered, but rejected in favor of using
a LIL due to the testing and learning aspects described in Section B.3 and B.4.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                     Page 14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                  Project              Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Infrastructure (Source of  Lesotho Highlands Water Project -    S               S
revenues for the LFCD)    Phase IA (closed on 3/31/99)
Lesotho Highlands Water Project -    S               S
Phase lB (closing on 12/31/04)
Education                 Education Sector Development          S               S
Project (closing on 6/30/99)
Education Sector Development         S               S
Program II
Health                    Health and Population Project II      S               S
(closed on 3/31/98)
Health Sector Investment Project   To be appraised
in Dec. 1999
Agriculture               Agricultural Policy and Capacity    Effective July
Building Project                    1999
Environment               Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier   To be appraised
conservation and Development   in January 2000
Area Project
Water                     Water Reform Project           To be appraised
in July 2000
Roads                     Road Rehabilitation and               S               S
Maintenance Project (closing on
12/31/01)
Public Sector Reform      Public Sector Reform and       To be appraised
Improvement Project            in March 2000
Other development agencies
District planning and     Mafeteng Development Project
decentralization         (GTZ)
Microenterprises and      Support to Micro-project
community-based micro-    Management Unit (EU)
projects
Community needs           UNICEF Country Program
assessment and participatory
planning
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                     Page 15
3. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GOL is committed to reform the LHRF to meet the principles set out for the new LFCD, and address the
weaknesses experienced under the LHRF. The Principal Secretary (PS) for Development Planning has
taken a strong leadership throughout the preparation process of this project. Through a design team, made
up of representatives from Development Planning, the LHRF, and the NGO community, and a drafting
team, which represented the key ministries of education, works, health, local government and agriculture,
the PS has completed the project preparation phase. GOL held a series of consultative workshops at
national (November and December, 1997, and June, 1998) and district levels (March, 1998), which were
attended by Ministers of Government, MPs, senior government officers, district staff, NGOs, chiefs and
headmen and community members. These efforts towards building a consensus in support of the LFCD
have been instrumental in building and rejuvenating confidence in Government's genuine intention to build
a truly transparent fund for community development. Given that the LFCD is being prepared while the
existing LHRF is still under implementation, substantial political support was needed to ensure that the
work proceeded without undue political and administrative interference. This was only possible because of
the strong political backing the reformulation process received from the new Government through the
offices of the Minister of Finance and of Development Planning.
To finance the LFCD, GOL has allocated M 225 million (US$36 million) over the next three years from
the LHWP royalties. Despite the political tensions in September 1998, the GOL remains committed to the
LHRF reformulation and gazetted the Legal Notice No. 16, dated March 10, 1999, which fornally
established the LFCD in place of the old LHRF. As soon as a new institution is established and core
functions of the LFCD become operational, all the assets and liabilities of the LHRF will be transferred to
the LFCD.
4. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has implemented more than 35 social funds throughout the world, of which about 10 are in
Africa. The accumulated experience from these experiences will be utilized during establishment and
implementation of the LFCD. In addition, the Bank is active in all the key sectors that communities are
likely to request sub-projects from, and is therefore is in a position to facilitate data exchange and
comparison of performance by the different approaches. Through a LIL, the Bank will be able to support
the evolving process of the establishment and internalization of the LFCD operations on a learning-by-
doing basis. From the poverty perspective, the Bank has supported the recent poverty analysis and is
therefore well-placed to facilitate the comparison and further refinement of poverty data. With the CAS in
place, GOL and the Bank jointly monitor the overall macro-economic situation to ensure an appropriate
enabling environment. The Bank's contributions will mostly be through its technical know-how and a
knowledge base accumulated through its broad-based support to the country and similar operations in other
countries, rather than financial resources which in this case are sufficiently available from the LHWP
royalties.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 1 1)
1. Economic:
[] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= N/A. million; ERR= N/A  [] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[XI Other: Qualitative, process-based analysis of least-cost alternatives
Due to the pilot nature of the project, only qualitative and process-based analysis has been undertaken.
Given the multi-sectoral nature of the LFCD and its participatory demand-driven approach, project benefits



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 16
are not easily quantifiable ex-ante. Progress will, however, be closely monitored during project
supervision.
The LFCD will attempt to minimize the costs by using local labor, community participation procurement
methods, and provision of unit cost data to the community. It will also try to maximize the benefits of the
sub-projects by responding to community needs, allowing to apply appropriate technology and project
design based on the local needs and capacity, and promoting operation and maintenance by beneficiary
communities themselves. Unit costs of LFCD-financed sub-projects will be measured during the project
and compared with that of similar projects carried out by conventional sector programs. To the extent
possible, basic cost-benefit analyses will be carried out, comparing the LFCD sub-projects and
conventional supply-driven projects.
Efficiency, Effectiveness and Equity: In contrast to the conventional supply-driven identification and
provision of infrastructure or services, LFCD's direct financing of community subprojects responding to
the demand of beneficiaries is expected to enhance efficiency in resource allocation as well as the speed of
meeting people's needs. As experience from other countries indicates, the demand-driven identification,
management and maintenance of subprojects are anticipated to increase the impact and sustainability of the
subprojects. However, such demand-driven approach does not always ensure equity. Therefore, in order
to meet the principal goal of the LFCD, poverty reduction, certain "targeting" measures would be
necessary to encourage resource allocation in favor of poor segments of the society as well of types of
subprojects that would make greater impact on poverty.
Fiscal impact: The LHWP royalties will generate revenues of about M200 million per annum ($32 million),
currently equivalent of about 10 percent of total government revenues. Of these, M225 million ($36
million) will be allocated to the LFCD over the next three years, up to the fiscal year 2002/03. The balance
of the royalty revenues will be transferred into the government's consolidated budget. If in the early years
of the LFCD the rate of expenditure does not match the inflow of resources, any remaining surpluses will
be maintained as reserves of the LFCD, until the capacity of LFCD and the growing demand from
communities leads to a full-scale operation. After the year 2002/03, GOL will review the allocation to the
LFCD based on the evaluation of the LFCD operations and impact, and prospective demand for its
resources.
Communities will be expected to contribute a share of individual sub-project costs (equivalent to a
minimum of 10 percent of the value of the subproject cost). As a condition of sub-project approval,
communities will also submit a plan for maintenance of the completed asset. This would show
responsibilities and also any financial contributions to be made by community members or users. It is
expected that the project will have two main fiscal benefits: (a) the productive life of the communal asset
will be longer than in the non-participatory planning case; and (b) the overall recurrent cost burden on the
Government's budgetary resources will be lower than in the non-participatory case. Sub-project proposals
will also be reviewed to ensure that sectoral ministries can meet recurrent expenditure requirements
generated by the sub-project and for which the sector has responsibility.
2. Financial:
NPV= N/A      million; FRR= N/A
Financial accountability: Overall public accountability for LFCD allocations is ensured as the Board,
chaired by the Minister of Finance and development Planning, and is directly accountable to the Prime
Minister, and key documents such as annual reports, audit report, and evaluations will be made available to
the public. LFCD will prepare annual reports of operations (physical and financial) and have their



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                       Page 17
financial statements audited annually by an external auditor. The project would need to establish new
accounting systems that can respond to the new Fund's financial and operational systems. A Financial
Management Action Plan has been prepared, and plans are laid out for establishment and development of
key departmentlunit as well as rules and procedures (with a Financial Procedures Manual to be developed).
LFCD's financial accounting systems would allow for fast disbursement to communities in tranches based
on: (a) subproject proposal readiness and compliance with appraisal criteria; (b) provision of an adequate
justification for funds advanced to communities by LFCD; and (c) swift accountability for funds.
3. Technical:
Sub-projects' technical design is based on the use of simple, appropriate and environmentally sound
technologies, corresponding to the needs and community capabilities (for construction, as well as operation
and maintenance). The design and standards of sub-projects will be based on the norms and standards of
the technical ministries involved. Labor-intensive work will be preferred wherever proven as technically
and economically efficient. Innovations in technical designs of subprojects will be encouraged while
keeping in mind the need for technical, financial and implementation viability. Investmnent costs for the
subprojects are based on prevailing market unit costs, with appropriate allowance for inflation, and,
whenever applicable, a reasonable level of physical contingencies.
4. Institutional:
The success of the project, and more broadly of the LFCD, depends on the strength of institutional
linkages, both horizontal and vertical. Weaknesses in such linkages have posed problems in Lesotho in the
past, and strengthening these linkages is one intended outcome of the LFCD. One of the major focuses of
this project is, therefore, the development of an appropriate institutional arrangement with adequate skills
and capacity to meet the goal of the LFCD. The LFCD will collaborate, at all stages of the project cycle,
with relevant government agencies, district-level authorities and officials, and other partner institutions in
supporting communities, and in carrying out appraisal, approvals, and monitoring of sub-projects. Close
monitoring of how the LFCD will work with Village Development Committees (VDCs), district
government, line ministries, district and central LFCD offices, non-governmental organizations, and the
private sector, as well as how these institutions assist communities will permit a detailed evaluation of their
individual, institutional capacity to deliver goods and services to the poor and to work in partnership
towards this goal. The project supports a significant capacity building program, the effectiveness and
flexibility of which would also be monitored. For the poverty monitoring component, the emphasis is on
strengthening existing institutions and trying out appropriate tools to improve poverty monitoring and
analysis that would be institutionalized beyond the project life.
5. Social:
The social challenge of the project and LFCD relates to understanding and effectively mobilizing
communities around targeted investments in social and economic infrastructure, improved natural resource
management and other small-scale activities that communities themselves identify as important to
improving their welfare. To this end, the project will foster partnerships with ongoing government and
NGO-led programs and activities to enhance communities' capacity and organization to make productive
use of project resources and other sources of investment opportunities. Extensive training of communities
and their organizations will be supported by the project to promote capacity building and self-sufficiency at
the local level to lay the groundwork for transferring authority for implementation of development and
natural resource management activities to local organizations and communities.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 18
Preliminary social data has been gathered through a series of Participatory Community Assessments
(PCAs) carried out in all 10 districts and in peri-urban Maseru. The PCAs include details about local
institutions, perceived levels of poverty, and development needs and priorities. The PCAs provide rough
baseline data on number of households, household composition, community assets and other common
property resources. They are also an important source of qualitative baseline data indicating communities'
experiences and expectations. These qualitative findings would be monitored in the same PCA
communities, as they participate in the LFCD, as well as in communities not in the sample but benefiting
from the LFCD, and in communities that are not receiving LFCD benefits. PCA data has shown gender
differentiation of needs and priorities. Therefore monitoring and evaluation should seek gender-
differentiated data on perceived benefits of LFCD sub-projects. (See Annex 8 for more details.)
The poverty monitoring component would support social aspects of LFCD operations through improving
the availability of regular information and analysis of household and community welfare. Data collection
supported under this component will not only be quantitative, but also involve participatory assessments of
poverty dimensions.
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category []A [X]B []C
The extent and diversity of potential LFCD investments present a challenge for mainstreaming
environmental assessment review procedures in the subproject cycle. An environmental analysis has
been carried out to assess potential impact of the project on environment, propose mitigation measures, and
recommend actions so that environmental concerns are adequately addressed in the project.
Most of the subprojects are expected to be small and community-based, and their negative environmental
impacts would be insignificant, especially on terrestrial eco-system (land, forestry, protected sites, etc.) and
aquatic ecology (water sources, waterflows, fisheries, etc.). However, the following areas require
attention: (a) potential negative environmental impacts of certain types of subprojects (e.g., construction of
new relatively large infrastructure such as feeder roads); and (b) potential positive impacts that LFCD
could make on environment and natural resource management through its community sensitization
activities and through subprojects that are directly aimed at improving natural resource management.
In collaboration with the NES and relevant sectoral Line Ministries, the project will assist the LFCD to
undertake two related activities, namely: (i) to raise community awareness about environmental impacts of
the program-funded activities and promote ways to mitigate and avoid negative effects; and (ii) to promote
improved natural resource management through its support for subprojects aimed at improving community-
level natural management of the natural resources which they control and depend on for their livelihood
(e.g., soil conservation, tree planting). A working group or technical committee that will involve expertise
from all relevant sectors will be established, including the NES, the Soil and Water Conservation
Department, and NGOs. An environmentalist/environmental engineer will be assigned in the MU who will
ensure, with support from the NES and relevant line ministries, that environmental concerns are adequately
incorporated and addressed in the project planning and design. In collaboration with the NES (and/or use
of a short-term consultant), capacity of the MU as well as that of the LFCD District Offices, District
Management Teams, Area Teams, NGOs and communities will be strengthened through
workshops/seminars to enhance awareness on the environment.
Environmental screening, review and assessment of potential environmental impacts of investments will be
an integral part of the LFCD subprojects from the design, implementation, supervision and monitoring
stages through to evaluation. To the extent available, the LFCD will apply existing standards for



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                       Page 19
environmental impact analysis/assessments and for measures to safeguard environment from potential
negative impacts. As part of the social mobilization activities supported by the project, LFCD will
facilitate environmental institutional capacity building to ensure awareness, enforcement and monitoring of
environmental standards and guidelines, as well as promoting subprojects aimed at improving
communities' management of their natural resources.
The poverty monitoring component is expected to support strengthened data collection and analysis of all
dimensions of welfare, including environmental resource availability and use by different groups of the
population.
7. Participatory approach:
In addition to advancing community participation and collaboration with NGOs and civil society
organizations in Lesotho, the project decision-making processes are expected to contribute towards
strengthening the capacity of existing structures within local government and the traditional village system
to serve as effective mechanisms for active participation by marginalized groups (e.g., women, landless,
youth) in determining options and priorities for alleviating poverty and the sustainable management of their
natural resource base. The poverty monitoring component is expected to generate increased dialogue
between central and local planners, public authorities and civil society, and data collectors and users, on the
range of issues regarding poverty indicators, status, trends and causality. In these ways, the project is
expected to promote consensus-building on poverty-reduction interventions in country.
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The project is based on the assumption that local decision-
making and community contributions in LFCD-supported subprojects will have a direct effect on the
sustainability of the subprojects. With that in mind, the Participatory Community Assessments (PCAs)
(See Annex 8 for more details) began a process of information sharing and consultations with primary
beneficiary groups (communities) in the process of developing the Operational Manual. Joint decision-
making (e.g., beneficiaries and LFCD staff will need to collaborate to improve operational procedures at
the local level) and empowerment of local communities to design, implement, monitor and sustain their
own subprojects are among the goals of the LFCD, and the project will help pilot these activities in the 22
pre-test communities where the PCAs were undertaken.
Other key stakeholders: Extensive consultations with key stakeholders have been carried out during the
process of refornulating the LHiRF into the LFCD, including: a series of regional stakeholder workshops at
the district level; a governance workshop to discuss institutional options for the LFCD; systematic
consultations by the MODP and LFCD Design Team with line ministries and NGOs; and iterative national-
level stakeholder workshops involving a wide range of stakeholders. 1 An Operational Manual was drafted
based on these consultations, and was reviewed by the workshop in June 1998. As with primary
beneficiaries, the project will support continued participation of other key stakeholders beyond consultation
and toward joint decision-making, like that which has been illustrated by the representative composition of
LFCD Design Team.
' Including apex and line ministry officials, district-level leaders and government officials, chiefs, parastatals, private
sector, NGOs, universities, donor agencies



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                        Page 20
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will support the process whereby a range of stakeholders and beneficiaries will interact and
collaborate at all stages in establishing and implementing the LFCD operations (e.g., systems development
and operationalization of the LFCD, the entire subproject cycles). This itself is a learning process for all
the institutions and individuals involved, including the govermment, the non-governmental sector, and
communities themselves. This will help build capacity and foster a sense of ownership among key actors
to sustain subproject activities.
Sustainability of LFCD sub-projects will be ensured through: (a) a high degree of community participation
in identification, planning, implementation, operations and maintenance; (b) commitment by beneficiaries
as evidenced through their contributions to subprojects in cash, kind, and/or labor; (c) a menu of
standardized technical designs appropriate to local conditions that will be made available to local
communities; (d) appraisal and approval criteria including an operation and maintenance plan; (e)
assurance that LFCD-financed sub-projects are part of the district and village plans, in line with national
policies and complementary to national programs; (f) participation of government agencies and the DMT in
project appraisal, approval and supervision; (g) agreement with government agencies to assure coverage of
recurrent costs for subprojects that generate such requirements; (h) training provided to local communities
on how to operate and maintain the facilities; and (i) involvement of NGOs and other players in facilitating
and providing technical support to communities.
Technical quality and supervision of community subprojects will be emphasized in LFCD procedures as
detailed in the Operational Manual, and organizational responsibilities (especially vis-a-vis the Line
Ministries) would be clearly spelt out. Capacity building programs for LFCD and Line Ministry staff, as
well as NGOs and the private sector would be developed, as needed, to ensure sustainability of these sub-
projects, especially for operation and maintenance.
Sustainability of the poverty monitoring component will be ensured through: (a) building on the existing
institutional arrangements and comparative advantages of different institutions to provide and analyze
poverty data; (b) introducing simple, but effective tools for data collection and analysis, which can be
sustained beyond project life; (c) clarifying the organizational structure for implementing the NPP,
especially the role and composition of the Poverty Monitoring Team; and (d) overseeing the monitoring
program through the Poverty Task Force, which has representatives from government and non-govermnent
institutions covering most sectors.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                    Page 21
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                                   Risk Rating Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Change in political commitment to the      M      Policy Letter of March 23, 1998 clearly states
LFCD's goal of poverty reduction                  GOL's commitment to the LFCD's goal and
the revised Legal Notice formalized its
commitment; Progress in the LFCD
operations according to its principles is a
trigger for a high case scenario in the CAS.
Collaboration under the LFCD will not lead  M     Continuous dialogue between GOL and
to development of partnership between GOL         NGOs; IEC and training to GOL and NGOs.
and NGO community
Sharing poverty data between agencies will  M     Dissemination of data and report findings;
not take place                                    capacity building.
Inadequate interest and willingness of     N      Dissemination of data and report findings;
policymakers and planners to base decision-       capacity building.
making on poverty data and trends
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs'
GOL does not delegate authority to LFCD in  N     Legal Notice and the Operational Manual
operational matters as in the OM                  clearly defines the roles and responsibilities;
establishment of open, transparent
procedures; sensitization of policymakers.
GOL does not provide incentive packages   M
for MU staff
Funds from LHWP revenues to the LFCD       M      Development and signing of a clear statement
will not be provided according to the agreed      by GOL on its commitment and procedures in
allocation                                        allocating LHWP revenues to the LFCD.
Adequate banking services are not available  M    Devise alternative mechanisms to handle
for the use of communities to manage              subproject funds.
subproject funds.
Political and public pressures for quick   M      An Information, Education, and
results will undermine the effort for systems     Communication campaign to policymakers
development and piloting of activities in         and the public.
phases
Partners at central and district level will not  N  Continued information, education &
support the goals of the fund and contribute      communication; training, and collaboration
to its success                                   through LFCD operations.
Inadequate incentives for poverty          M      Develop and institute non-monetary
researchers and analysts.                        incentives for the key staff to remain in their
posts.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                      Page 22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project will support the targeting of the funds from the LHWP to the community and the poor. Due to
the high visibility of the LHWP and thus the use of its royalty revenues, the LFCD operation will be
subject to a high degree of attention and scrutiny from all interest groups and stakeholders, including
politicians, the media and the public.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
+  The Operational Manual adopted in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.
*  Qualified professionals appointed as (i) Executive Director and (ii) Director for Finance and
Administration for the Lesotho Fund for Community Development.
+ An independent, external auditor acceptable to IDA appointed.
*  Minimum financial management and accounting systems for LFCD acceptable to IDA adopted.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
* Adequate financial management and accounting systems, satisfactory to IDA, will be established in the
LFCD before any disbursement be made from the credit for community sub-projects.
*  Quarterly reports on financial disbursements will be submitted to IDA.
*  Semi-annual implementation reports will be submitted to IDA.
*  Annual audit reports will be submitted to IDA.
*  A beneficiary assessment and an independent evaluation will be undertaken and completed by,
respectively, August 31, 2001 (18 months after credit effectiveness) and March 31, 2003 (six months
before the closing date), with terms of reference to be agreed between the Government and IDA. They
will assess, inter alia: effectiveness and timely delivery of the LFCD operation to meet the community
demand and provide support; quality and sustainability of the LFCD sub-projects; effectiveness of
participatory planning process to identify community's priorities and their potential impact on the poor;
capacity and participation of community-based organizations to plan and manage sub-projects;
capacity of the private and non-governmental sector, local institutions, line ministries to support
participatory community-driven sub-projects; and capacity in national poverty monitoring and
programming.
+  The government and IDA will carry out a mid-term review by no later than September 30, 2001, to
review the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
* The government will: (a) open and maintain a Revenue Receiving Account (RRA) in its central bank
under the name of the LFCD under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (b) deposit



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Community Development Support Project                                        Page 23
into the RRA an aggregate amount of not less than 225 million Maloti which shall be disbursed in three
annual installments to be determined as follows: (i) an initial amount of not less than 40 million Maloti
shall be deposited into the RRA by April 15, 2000; (ii) unless it shall have been agreed upon otherwise
with the Association, the amount of the second and third installment shall be equal to 85 millionMaloti
and 100 million Maloti respectively; and (iii) the amount of the said second and third installments shall
be deposited into the RRA by April 15, 2001 and April 15, 2002 respectively; and (c) ensure that the
proceeds of the RRA are used by LFCD only for the purposes of funding community driven
Subprojects and other activities entrusted to LFCD with a view to fostering and monitoring the
reduction of poverty in the Borrower's territory, all in accordance with the operational procedures and
guidelines set forth in the Operational Manual.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[XI The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] A draft Operational Manual for the community subprojects and LFCD administration has been
appraised and found to be satisfactory.
[(] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
=. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
f ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Acting Task Tei Leader: Chiyo Kanda
Acting Se fr Manager: Marito Garcia
Acting Coun4y 6irect r: Arnaud Guinard






Annex 1
Community Development Support Project
Project Design Summary
[ Narrative Summary  [  Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring & Evaluation        Critical
..   .       ..               Assumptions
SE(IFOR-10. A ED) ('AS ('O  u.
Improve the standard   Reduction in levels of key poverty  Poverty monitoring system;  (Goal to Bank
of living of poor, rural  indicators                national household surveys;  Mission):
communities,        Reduction in % of population that  and sectoral statistics  Strong political and
especially the most    is poor                                               institutional
vulnerable andcomteto
disadvantaged       Improved access of poor to some                           commitment to
community members  services and infrastructure.                              implement the
National Poverty
Programme
Development
Objective of 'follow-
on operation':
Reduce poverty in
Lesotho through a
participatory demand-
driven, multi-sectoral
special fund



Annex I
Page 2 of 5
Narrative           Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Summary
El             |    W 1l1l              _.. 
1. Test demand-   l.1. A practical and appropriate       Revised OM; benefciary   (Objective to Goal):
driven and        methodology adopted for community       assessments; annual      LFCD reaches an
participatory     needs assessments and participatory    reviews; and LFCD annual increasing no. of poor
approaches        planning process, and for appraisal,   reports, audit and        communities and
through a multi-   implementation and maintenance for     evaluation reports       disadvantaged
sectoral special    community demand-driven sub-projects,                          individuals (e.g.,
fund and draw     with a view to achieving the LFCD's goal                         women, unemployed)
lessons on how to  of poverty reduction (indicated through a
support           revised OM, beneficiary assessments, and                         Line Ministries'
community         evaluation reports).                                             programs and
development in    1.2  Expected benefits to be generated by                        services are re-
Lesotho                                            alia:  Post-completion          oriented to support a
sub-project assessed by gauging, inter  evauaton of sub          ,bttm-p
the level of satisfaction from the users of
faciXities developed under the sub-project;  projects; beneficiary  approach to
the efficiency of operations and       assessments; household    development
maintenance of said facilities; poverty  surveys; annual reviews;    Decentralization
targeting (e.g. resources allocated to poor   audit and evaluation  arrangements are
communities, types of investment with  repot                     implemented
higher impact on the poor); and relevance   reports              according to the
of investment to community needs                                 Ministry of Local
(indicated through post-completion                               Government
evaluations of sub-projects, beneficiary                        implementation plan
assessments, household surveys, and
evaluation reports).
1.3. Semi-annual reports on LFCD's     Semi-annual
activities and operations have been    implementation reports
submitted to the IDA, no later than 45 days
after the end of every six months.
1.4  A strategy, reflecting the lessons
learnt and acceptable to IDA, has been  A strategy paper; an action
adopted by June 30, 2002, to support   plan
community development, including an
action plan for the future of the LFCD
2. Test various   2.1  The Core Welfare Indicators        Reports on surveys that
mechanisms and    Questionnaires (CWIQ) piloted and its   used CWIQ; annual
tools to monitor    effectiveness and adequacy as a tool for    reviews; and evaluation
poverty trends in   poverty monitoring evaluated         reports
Lesotho and to    2.2  A strategy or an action plan,      An action plan/strategy for
coordinate        reflecting the lessons learnt and acceptable  future national poverty
national poverty   to IDA, has been adopted by September    monitoring
monitoring and    30, 2002, to monitor poverty data and
analysis activities  trends at the national level



Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring &       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
lIlfQ.l. ( i    O | ( )t ' '1 'I   ' [I'S
1. LFCD fully        1.1  No. of subprojects approved,  LFCD's accounting   (Outputs to
operational, with    under implementation and        records and            Objective)
effective mechanisms  completed                      Management             Continued political
for supporting                                       Information System     commitment to the
participatory                                        (MIS)                  LFCD's goal of
community-driven     1.2  LFCD Board members and                            poverty reduction
subprojects tested,  MU staff appointed through clear    LFCD annual reports;
adjusted and finalized  and transparent procedures   and supervision reports
1.3 Operational Manuals and
other technical guidelines, manuals, Copies of finalized
and handbooks developed and     manuals, guidelines,
tested                          handbooks
1.4  Financial management       LFCD MIS; Supervision
systems and project management   reports
information systems in place and
functioning effectively
1.5  No. of staff trained in relevant Training reports; and
management and other operational  supervision reports
skills
1.6  No. of communities reached   IEC consultant's report;
by IEC campaign                 and copies of IEC
materials produced and
distributed
1.7  Average delivery time for  LFCD MIS; beneficiary
LFCD services is in line with   assessments; and
Operational Manual guidelines (e.g. supervision reports
approvals, disbursement)



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
NIarrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring & Evaluation        Critical
Assumptions
2. Capacity of the   2.1  No. of sub-projects that     Beneficiary assessments;    Collaboration under
LFCD staff,          reflected communities' needs and  post-completion evaluations. the LFCD leads to
participating        priorities.                                                 development of
communities and                                                                  partnership between
intermediaries       2.2  % of community contributions  LFCD MIS and annual      GOL and NGOs
strengthened         to of total sub-project costs     reports; supervision/field
visit reports.
2.3  Knowledge/ability of the    Beneficiary assessments;
community to operate and maintain   supervision/field visit
the infrastructure built/rehabilitated.  reports; post-completion
evaluations.
2.4  No. of LFCD staff trained by    Training reports; LFCD
type of training                 Management Information
System (MIS); beneficiary
2.5  No. of intermediaries (NGOs,   assessments; supervision
Line Ministries, etc.) trained by type  reports; and qualitative
of training                      assessments of trainees
2.6 No. of communities and
community members trained by
socio-economic status, gender and
type of training
3. Improved          3.1  No. of staff trained in poverty   Training reports;    An open access to
availability of      analysis and monitoring by type of    supervision reports; poverty  share poverty data
information and      training                          monitoring database       between agencies
analysis on the status   3.2  No. of reports and studies on    (maintained by poverty  will prevail.
of poverty           poverty recorded in the poverty   monitoring team); and     Greater interest and
monitoring system                reports for surveys and/or    willingness of
studies undertaken        policymakers and
3.3  Reduction in BOS survey tum-                           planners to base
around time (from end of fieldwork                          dersio          on
to first report)                                            decision-making on
systematically
3.4  Reduction in duplicated or                             gathered
uncoordinated poverty monitoring/                          information on
analysis activities                                         poverty



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
Narrative Summary         Key Performance       Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Indicators          Evaluation
PROJ I.Ci CON()XI Pt)ONU\ IX   INI Th (lit 1(t1 1 r)
1. Support to Establishment and  US$ 7.6 million  Supervision reports;   (Components to Outputs):
Operationalization of the LFCD                    disbursement reports;    GOL grants delegated
1.1 Piloting of the project cycle    US$ 1.3 million  LFCD annual reports    authority of the LFCD in
through sub-projects in 22                        and MIS; semi-annual    operational matters as defined
communities and for different                     implementation reports;  in the OM and provide
cypesommunitiecs andfordifferebeneficiary assessments;  conducive incentive packages
post-completion        for MU staff
1.2 Systems development and    US$ 2.2 million    evaluations of sub-
operationalization for LFCD                       projects; external     Continued flow of funds from
evaluation.            LHWP revenues to the LFCD
1.3 LFCD management and        US$ 4.1 million                           according to the agreed
operational costs                                                        allocation
Political and public pressures
for quick results will not
undermine the effort for
systems development and
phased implementation
2. Capacity building activities    US$ 1.4 million
for LFCD
2.1 Training of LFCD staff in  US$ 0.3 million                           Adequate banking services are
operational systems for financial                                        available for the use of
and project management                                                   communities to manage
subproject funds.
2.2 Training for LFCD partner  US$ 1.1 million                           Partners at central and district
institutions (communities, central                                       level continue supporting the
and district level government staff,                                     goals of the fund and
local governments, NGOs, private                                         contribute to its success
sector)
3. National Poverty Program    US$ 1.4 million
implementation & monitoring
3.1 Data for poverty monitoring    US$ 0.8 million                       Potential poverty researchers
and analysts are sufficiently
well remunerated and
motivated, and not take work
elsewhere
3.2 Program monitoring and     US$ 0.6 million
poverty analysis






Annex 2
Community Development Support Project
Project Description
Project Background
1.    To ensure prudent management of the royalties from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project
(LHWP), GOL decided to establish a special fund that will be used for community-based development
projects for poverty reduction. The Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LBRF) was established through
Act No. 82 of 1991, and rules and regulations were stipulated in the Legal Notice No. 91 of 1992. While
the LHRF created valuable employment opportunities for communities and contributed to the creation of
needed infrastructure, it lacked adequate institutional requirements and mechanisms to ensure effective
operation of such a fund; for example, no detailed implementation procedures or quality assurance
mechanisms were developed, and few written plans or guidelines were prepared. As a result, the LHRF
has operated with unclear, inconsistent and sometimes non-existent policies and procedures. Having
recognized such operational problems of the LHRF, the GOL committed to reformulate the LHRF into a
more effective institution, and test a variety of mechanisms that support participatory community
development.
2.    In September, 1997, GOL took a decision to reformulate the LHRF into a social fund-type
operation, with the principal objective of reducing poverty. The Ministry of Development Planning
(MODP) has taken the lead role in the reformulation process. A small Design Team was appointed to
coordinate the design of the new Fund using a consultative approach, which enabled the participation of a
wide range of key stakeholders during the preparation phase.2 A draft Operational Manual was prepared
by a Drafting Team, composed of the Design Team and other senior technical staff from key Line
Ministries and government agencies. It was subsequently debated and broadly endorsed at a large
stakeholder workshop. The manual was further revised and refined, incorporating stakeholders'
comments and additional technical inputs.
3.    GOL now wishes to press ahead and try out the institutional and financial mechanisms through a
newly reformulated Lesotho Fund for Community Development (LFCD), with a view to subsequently
scaling up the activities to cover poor communities across the country. A revised Legal Notice was
recently gazetted and became effective, formally establishing the LFCD in place of the old LHRF. As
soon as a new institution is established and core functions of the LFCD become operational, all the assets
and liabilities of the LBRF will be transferred to the LFCD.
4.    Closely related to the goal of the LFCD, the project will also help test and coordinate different
approaches to monitoring and analyzing overall poverty status in Lesotho. This is expected to contribute
to periodic updating of the poverty data, and monitoring of the potential impact of the LFCD and other
sectoral programs.
5.    This project has been developed to test different mechanisms in a phased manner to
operationalize a participatory demand-driven fund that is aimed at supporting community-driven
development and poverty reduction. It will also test various approaches and instruments to strengthen
Lesotho's poverty monitoring system and analytical capacity to monitor the poverty trends more
effectively.
2 Yroject preparation costs were mainly covered by a Japanese PHRD grant.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Component 1: Support for the Establishment and Implementation of the LFCD
Total cost of component: US$7.6 million (GOL: $4.8 million; Communities: $0.1 million; IDA: $2.7
million).
Sub-component (a): Community subproject investment costs
(US$1.3 million - Communities: $0.1 million; IDA: $1.2 million)
6.    LFCD operations and procedures will be 'pre-tested' in 22 communities which participated in an
earlier consultative exercise through the Participatory Community Assessment (PCA). The PCA
illustrated, among others, existing institutional structures, community-based organizations, and
communities' views on priority needs (see Annex 9 for summary findings). Returning to these
communities in pre-test activities would provide an opportunity for LFCD staff and community members
to learn together, while addressing priority development needs in poor communities.
7.    Under this sub-component, IDA will finance all investment costs associated with subprojects
approved by LFCD in the 22 selected communities during the "pre-test" phase, except for the
communities' own contribution toward subproject costs. A preliminary assessment of development
priorities in the 22 communities suggest that subprojects to be financed during the pre-test are likely to
include feeder roads (selected as their top priority by the majority) and other local infrastructure such as
schools and water supply, natural resource management and other community-managed assets (See
Annex 9, Table A).
8.    Lessons learnt from the pre-test phase will be incorporated into LFCD guidelines prior to
expanding the operations to other localities for further testing. In line with the capacity of the LFCD and
other participating institutions, the LFCD will increase its operational scope by expanding the
geographical areas covered, increasing the range of eligible subproject types, and testing alternative
financial mechanisms of support for the poor. GOL, through the LFCD, will finance all the subsequent
subproject investment costs, again with the exception of the communities' own contribution where
appropriate.
Sub-component (b): Systems development and operationalization
(US$2.2 million - GOL: $0.7 million; IDA: $1.5 million)
9.    This sub-component will invest in setting up a basic set of operational and financial systems for
LFCD, and assist the LFCD in adjusting and refining the systems and procedures as various approaches
are tested on the ground. Lessons learnt from operations of the LHRF indicate that local capacity to
design, implement and support such systems is limited. The project will therefore finance critical
activities needed to operationalize the LFCD and develop it as an effective institution, including
equipment, technical assistance and consulting services to design and implement appropriate mechanisms
and procedures that can be sustained beyond the project life.
10.   First year activities will include: (i) support in designing a detailed institutional structure and
administrative policies for the LFCD (e.g., clear institutional roles and responsibilities covering the
various units of the LFCD and their relationship to LFCD partner institutions, detailed personnel and
human resource development policies); (ii) assistance in setting up a computerized financial and
accounting system; (iii) establishment of the Management Information System (MIS) to monitor physical
and financial progress of subprojects; (iv) an adviser to the Executive Director for eighteen months to
assist with the establishment, implementation and first-year management of the LFCD; (v) consultancy to
assist to start up an Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign, to sensitize key
stakeholders about the procedures of the new Fund and their roles and responsibilities; (vi) development



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
of technical handbooks and manuals; (vii) special studies, e.g., to review experiences with income-
generating projects and propose an approach under the LFCD; (viii) other short-term consultancies as
needed to assist with implementation of the LFCD.
Sub-component (c): LFCD management and coordination
(US$4.1 million-GOL: $4.1 million)
11.   GOL will finance all recurrent operational costs associated with the LFCD.
Component 2: Capacity building Activities for the LFCD
Total cost of component: US$1.4 million (GOL: $0.5 million; IDA: $0.9 million)
Sub-component (a): Capacity building for LFCD
(US$0.3 million - GOL: 0.1 million; IDA: 0.2 million)
12.   This sub-component will build the capacity of the LFCD staff (at the central and district levels) to
perform effectively in managing day-to-day operations of the LFCD and responding to community
demands emanating from the participatory planning process. Among others, it will provide necessary
training (through workshops, short courses, in-service or on-the-job training) for LFCD staff to enable
them to operate the various systems of the LFCD effectively, and may include the following areas: LFCD
procedures and project cycles; social fund operations and management; basic computer skills and
information management; basic participatory planning techniques and processes, Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures; and monitoring and evaluation. The MU will develop a training plan based on
needs and priorities, and establish clear criteria and processes to select candidates and modality of
training that are cost-effective.
Sub-component (b): Capacity building for LFCD partner institutions
(US$1.1 million - GOL: $0.4 million; IDA: $0.7 million)
13.   The sub-component will provide support for capacity building activities for LFCD participating
partner institutions in order to enable them to provide effective facilitation and technical support to
communities. The target group includes: community-based organizations, NGOs, private sector firms,
and government staff at the district and central levels. The exact form of the capacity building programs
will be tailored to the individual needs of each group. Training needs of each group will be assessed, and
appropriate training programs will be designed and tested during the pre-test phase; potential capacity
building activities include:
* workshops for sectoral Line Ministries to brief staff on LFCD operations, and to collaborate in
the preparation of appropriate sectoral guidelines;
* training on community facilitation skills;
* specific training programs for local governments;
* study tours for NGOs to learn about the role of NGOs in other social funds;
* production and dissemination of handbooks, guidelines and other training materials, and
continued stakeholder consultations for their feedback;
* attendance at the annual meeting of the Africa Social Fund forum.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Component 3: Implementation and Monitoring of the National Poverty Program
Total cost of component: US$ 1.4 million (GOL: US$ 0.3 million; IDA: US$ 1.1 million)
Sub-component (a): Data for poverty monitoring
(US$ 0.8 million - GOL: $0.1 million; IDA: $0.7 million)
14.   The sub-component will support the strengthening of capabilities of the Bureau of Statistics
(BOS) to collect, process, analyze and disseminate data for poverty monitoring. This will include support
to implement and administer annual surveys using Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ),
including the provision of necessary equipment for implementation. The CWIQ will be piloted during the
first six months of project implementation and followed by two full-scale annual surveys in years 2 and 3
of the project. Short-term consultants will be hired to assist with issues of sampling, data dissemination,
and cartography. A study tour will also be financed by the project together with necessary (short-term or
in-service) training and workshop for staff in relevant agencies.
Sub-component (b): Program monitoring and poverty analysis
(US$ 0.6 million - GOL: $0.2 million; IDA: $0.4 million)
15.   The project will help strengthen the quality of program monitoring and poverty analysis: (i) by
providing technical assistance through an adviser and training (e.g., short courses, workshops, in-service
training, study tours) to the Poverty Task Force and a small Poverty Monitoring Team to be established
(about three staff will be assigned on the full-time basis and serve as a secretariat to the Poverty Task
Force) to build their capacity in poverty analysis, program design and monitoring; and (ii) by financing
policy analysis and related studies on poverty.



Annex 3
Community Development Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                    Local      Foreign        Total
------------------US $ million------------------
Lesotho Fundfor Community Development:
Community sub-projects                                 1.1          0.0          1.1
Systems development and implementation                 0.8          1.0          1.8
Operational costs                                      3.1          0.3          3.4
Capacity Building and Institutional Support               1.0          0.2          1.2
NPP Implementation and Monitoring:
Data for poverty monitoring                            0.5          0.2          0.7
Program monitoring and poverty analysis                0.2          0.3          0.5
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.7          2.0          8.7
Physical Contingencies                                 0.3          0.1          0.4
Price Contingencies                                    1.0          0.3          1.3
Total Project Cost                                        8.0          2.4         10.4
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



Annex 4
Community Development Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    It is not possible to determine the exact mix of goods and services under the project due to the
demand-driven nature of the LFCD and the adaptable feature of a LIL. Types of sub-projects to be
financed under the LFCD and their procurement details will depend of the needs identified by the
community. Other procurement, such as technical assistance and training, are agreed based on the needs
identified for the first year of the project. Costs for the following years are only indicative, and the exact
mix of procurement will be determined on an annual basis.
2.    Procurement for all IDA financed activities will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular, Section 3.15 Community
Participation in Procurement. Consulting services by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be
awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997).
3.    Institutional Arrangements: As stated in section C2 in the main text, an Operational Manual
has been prepared by the Government. It is a living document that will be continuously modified, subject
to agreements between GOL and IDA, as new lessons are learnt and incorporated for future use. It
includes basic guidelines for the sub-project cycle, procurement of goods and services, disbursement
arrangements, accounting and reporting requirements. More details will be described in various manuals
and handbook to be developed, e.g., a Procurement Manual, a Financial Management Manual, and a
Community Implementation Handbook. Procurement for LFCD-financed community sub-projects will
follow procedures described in the Procurement Manual and the Community Implementation Handbook,
and the Financing Agreement to be signed between the LFCD and the community will spell out
responsibilities of each party in procurement, disbursement and financial management.
4.    Procurement Management: LFCD will operate in accordance with detailed procurement
procedures to be specified in the Procurement Manual. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, supplies and
services for the LFCD will be the responsibility of the LFCD's Management Unit (MU). The MU will
also provide assistance to the DSP and BOS to facilitate procurement under the NPP implementation and
monitoring component. Procurement for sub-projects will be the responsibility of the beneficiary
community. In limited cases, and only when project materials are not available locally and upon request
from the beneficiary community, the MU will be charged. Procurement training will be offered to each
beneficiary community at the time of project launch.
5.    The LFCD's 10 District Offices, each of which will be headed by a District Officer, assisted by a
Technical Officer, will be responsible for: (i) when, asked, assisting the community, together with the
District Management Teams (DMT), to identify and prioritize sub-projects; (ii) provide the community
with standardized designs (developed by line ministries) and market prices (from a databank); (iii)
monitoring contracts entered into by the communities at the local level and, when asked, assisting the
communities in undertaking the tendering process for goods and materials procured by the communities;
(iv) supervise the works (this may be done by NGOs chosen primarily on a competitive basis); and (v)
coordinate and obtain clearances from the MU. The DOs will also be responsible for maintaining



Annex 4
Page 2 of 9
appropriate forms for contracts to be used by the communities. In cases where National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for the sub-projects is necessary, the LFCD's Management Unit (MU), with the
assistance of relevant Line Ministries, will coordinate the bidding process on behalf of the community.
The MU will prepare the material requirements and bills of quantities. The MU will also be responsible
for conducting ex-post audits of the adequacy of procurement procedures by the DO on a selective basis,
for contracts US$30,000 equivalent and above. Monitoring and audit procedures for procurement by DO
will be detailed in the Procurement Manual. The LFCD staff will be trained, once recruited, in IDA
procurement procedures, and ongoing support will be provided from the World Bank throughout the
project life.
6.    Price Databank: The MU will develop and maintain a data base of regionally specific market
prices, as part of the cost control system and to assure that contract selection is transparent and economic.
It will include costs and rates for at least 40 of the most commonly required items based on project costs
during the previous three months, or from a random sample of suppliers and employers. Such unit prices
will be updated at least on a quarterly basis. Unit prices for other required items will be updated on a
rotational basis, to be updated at least twice a year. The data will be used in appraisal and monitoring, as
a tool to review the project budget and as a guide when procurement is through direct contracting.
Details of the methodology for preparing the database will be provided in the Operational Manual.
7.    Procurement Monitoring and Evaluation: The MU will monitor all procurement-related
information for project implementation. Such monitoring will provide information including the DO
supervising the procurement process, number and amount of contracts awarded under each DO's
supervision, procurement methods, amount and nature of contracts procured through each method,
number and amount of contracts subject to prior review by IDA, and number of beneficiary communities
that have been directly contracted to execute works.
Procurement methods (See Table A and Al) andprior review thresholds (See Table B)
LFCD Sub-projects
8.    As far as possible, subprojects that involve works will be implemented through civil works
contracts. Contracts under the LFCD sub-projects would be mostly small, labor intensive, community-
based activities such as construction of classrooms, water wells, dug-out ponds, and trees planting. They
would be scattered across the country, many of which in remote areas or in mountains. It is unlikely,
therefore, those contracts will attract intemational bidders. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for
works is therefore not anticipated. A popularly elected Community Project Committee will be
responsible for procuring all goods, materials, labor, transport, and other inputs for the works, or hiring
appropriate implementing agency or contractor, following the procedures described in the Procurement
Manual and the Community Implementation Handbook.
9.    Given the social objectives of the project and the intended use of NGO, community labor, and
labor-intensive methods, small works and procurement of goods and supplies for LFCD sub-projects
costing less than the equivalent of US$75,000 per contract will be carried out by Community
Participation methods in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and described in the
Procurement Manual. These procedures include: lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors/suppliers in response to a written
specification. Contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$75,000, where sufficient competition from
national bidders maybe expected to be available, will be procured using the National Competitive Bidding



Annex 4
Page 3 of 9
(NCB) procedures (also refer to para 3 above). The use of Force Account will be discouraged and
probably will not be used under the project. Government forces (e.g., Ministry of Public Works, Ministry
of Agriculture) may be used, however, if no local capacity or contractors will be available on sites, up to
the aggregate amount of $200,000 (also refer to para. 3.8 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines).
10.    It is expected that subprojects will be small in size and fall under $75,000 per contract. Contracts
estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent per contract or above as well as any contracts under Force Account
would be financed on an exceptional basis, and would be subject to prior review by IDA in accordance
with Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Bid documents, evaluation reports, and
contracts will be submitted to IDA for approval. In addition, the first three contracts under $75,000 will
be reviewed by IDA to ensure that procurement will be carried out in accordance with agreed procedures.
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including)
ICB       NCB       Otherll    NB.F21   contingencies
1. Community Sub-projects            -         0.2         1.0        0.1            1.3
-       (0.2)       (1.0)         -          (1.2)
2. Equipment, Furniture, Supplies,    -        0.1         0.3         0.7           1.1
And Vehicles                       -       (0.1)       (0.3)         -           (0.4)
3. Consultant Services, training,     -                   3.1          0.9           4.0
Studies, workshops, study tours    -         -         (3.1)         -           (3.1)
4. Operating costs                                                     4.1           4.1
Total                                       0.3         4.4         5.8          10.4
(0.3)      (4.4)         -           (4.7)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA credit.
1/ Other includes: International or National Shopping; Community Participation method; Force account.
Also Consultant Services; costs for in-service training, workshops, and study tours.
21 N.B.F. (Not Bank-Financed) includes: the LFCD's own resources from LHWP revenues, which
covers LFCD's operational costs, additional equipment, and routine training once it is
institutionalized; community contributions to the sub-projects in cash, kind, or labor; GOL's
contributions in the form of staff salaries and office space/equipment for the Poverty Monitoring
Group and the BOS staff who will work on CWIQ.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 9
Goods and Equipment
11.   Goods and equipment to be procured would include one vehicle, office equipment, computers
and software for LFCD district and central offices as well as for the Bureau of Statistics (BOS). While
total estimated amount for goods and equipment is US$354,000 (US$294,000 for LFCD and US$60,000
for BOS), each contract is expected to be less than US$100,000. Goods and equipment that are estimated
to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may be procured by National Shopping (NS) procedures in
accordance with the Guidelines. NS may also be used for procurement of one 4WD vehicle for the MU
(estimated cost of $35,000). Goods and equipment valued at $30,000 and above, but not exceeding
$100,000 per contract, may be purchased through International Shopping (IS) or the United Nations
Inter-Agency Procurement Office (IAPSO). If the estimated amount per contract is on or above $100,000
[but less than $200,000], NCB procedures will be followed according to the Guidelines.
12.   While an estimated $354,000 worth of computers, office equipment and a vehicle will be
purchased under the credit, packaging of similar items suitable for competitive bidding will not be
possible under the project. Contracts on or above the individual threshold of US$100,000 equivalent, if
any, will be subject to IDA's prior review.
Annex 4, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services   Selection Method                                Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                   (including)
_________________   QCBS  QBS  SFB  LCS   CQ    Other  NB.F.  Contingencies
A. Firms                0.3                      0.1                        0.4
(0.3)                    (0. 1)                    (0.4)
1.3               1.3
B. Individuals                                          (1.3)             (1.3)
Total   0.3                       0.1    1.3                1.7
(0.3)                    (0.1)   (1.3)             (1.7)
Notes:    QCBS =  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  =  Quality-Based Selection
SFB   =  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   =  Least-Cost Selection
CQ    =  Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =  Selection of individual consultants, Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =  Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 9
Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value       Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)           Method            Prior Review /Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review (US$ mil)
1. Community sub-projects    < $75,000     Community participation    First three contracts2/
> $75,000             NCB                   All contracts
2. Equipment, Furniture,     < $30,000           NS, IAPSO                   None
Supplies, and Vehicles   > $30,000 and         IS, IAPSO                   None
< $100,000
2 $100,000 and           NCB                   All contracts
< $200,000
3. Consultant Servicesl/
Firms                     < $100,000       QCBS if 2 $75,000             None3/
If below, CQ may be
used
> $100,000            QCBS                   All contracts
Individuals               < $50,000         Bank Guidelines              None3/
> $50,000        Bank Guidelines            All contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 1.2 million
ICB    =  International Competitive Bidding
NCB   =  National Competitive Bidding
IS     =  International Shopping
NS    =  National Shopping
IAPSO =  United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office
QCBS  =  Quality and Cost-Based Selection
CQ    =  Consultant Qualifications-Based Selection
1/ All terms of reference for consulting services, including those specified in the project manuals
will be subject to IDA's prior review.
2/ Exemption from prior review does not apply to contracts under Force Account.
3/ Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts in case of single-source
selection of firms and individuals, assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts
raising the original value above the respective thresholds.
Consultant Services
13.   In principle, the project will encourage, to the extent possible, engagement of national consultants
with a view to develop local capacity, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. This may be done
thorough short-listing of national consultants in cases of contracts of small value (below thresholds; see
below) or by setting selection criteria which provides higher weights to national consultants when
candidates have similar qualifications and experience. However, foreign firms/consultants will probably



Annex 4
Page 6 of 9
be used for more complex assignments and, in case of expression of interest, they will not be excluded
from the selection process for smaller assignments.
14.   The Bank-financed consultants would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (Consultant Guidelines), published
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997. Contracts estimated to cost on or above the threshold of
$75,000 for firms will be awarded through the Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method (refer
to Section II, para. 2.1-2.28, of the Consultant Guidelines). The short-list for contracts below the
threshold of $100,000, in which local capacity is readily available, may comprise entirely of national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Contracts
for firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of the Consultant
Qualification (CQ) selection method in accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines. Single-source contracts with firms may be awarded on an exceptional basis, with prior
agreement by IDA, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.1 1 of the Consultant
Guidelines; justifications for single-source contracts may include prior experience by a consultant in
similar assignments, and assignment of a specialized nature for which the availability of capable
consultants are limited. Selection of individual consultants will be made according to Section V, para.
5.1-5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
15.   For consultant services (including those provided by NGOs), IDA's prior review and approval
will be required for terms of reference, short list(s), budgets, selection procedures and criteria, letters of
invitation, evaluation reports and contracts in the following categories: (a) all contracts with firms
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract or above; (b) all contracts with individuals estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or above; (c) single source selection of consulting firms or individual
consultants regardless of contract values; (d) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
IDA; (e) amendments of contracts for the employment of finns or individuals raising the respective total
contract value to $100,000 or $50,000 equivalent or above. Terms of reference will be subject to IDA's
prior review for all consultant contracts.
Disbursement and Financial Management
16.   The project will be implemented over a three-year period, starting April 1, 2000. The Project
Completion Date will be March 31, 2003, and the credit closing date will be September 30, 2003.
Retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the total credit amount, or $467,000, would be available to
cover eligible expenditures incurred after February 22, 1999 (the date of appraisal) and no more than 12
months prior to the credit signing. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C below.
17.   The Management Unit (MU) of the LFCD will be responsible for ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures for the project meet GOL and the World Bank standards. A
Financial Management Action Plan has been developed to lay out an essential institutional set-up and
internal control mechanisms as well as to set forth necessary actions for systems development for sound
financial management, and incorporated in the Operational Manual.
18.   Qualified professionals will be appointed as the Director for Finance and Administration, the
Chief Accountant and the Internal Auditor. Short-term consultant(s) will be engaged to assist the core
staff. A Financial Management Committee will be established in the MU, comprising of core
management staff. A detailed financial procedures manual will be developed and finance/administrative
staff will be trained as needed. The appointment of a qualified professional as Director of Finance and



Annex 4
Page 7 of 9
Administration as well as the establishment of an adequate financial management and accounting system
are conditions for credit effectiveness.
19.   At this early juncture of planning the establishment of LFCD's financial management system,
LFCD is not yet ready for disbursements based on Project Management Reports (PMR), as discussed in
the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). Thus, in
the short-term, existing World Bank disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, will be followed, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special
Commitment.
20.   The implementation of the Financial Management Actin Plan will facilitate the establishment and
development of LFCD's financial management system before disbursement is made for community
subprojects, and the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of credit
effectiveness. An action plan to shift to PMR-based disbursements will be completed by September 30,
2001. In that regard, a financial management review of the project should be undertaken by a World
Bank Financial Management Specialist within twelve months of credit effectiveness (in about March
2001) to assess progress.
21.   Funds will be disbursed directly to the community (or to the relevant implementing agency or
contractor upon CPC's request) after a bank account has been opened for the sub-project use and a copy
of the Financing Agreement signed by all parties concerned has been received by the MU. Payments will
be made in four tranches (i.e., 40%, 25%, 25% and 10 % of the total sub-project cost). The first tranche
will be disbursed upon signing of the Financing Agreement, and each subsequent tranche will be effected
upon: (i) receipt of a written request from the CPC; (ii) receipt of an up-to-date Monthly Progress Report
from the CPC by the LFCD District Office; and (iii) proper and justified utilization of at least 75% of the
previous tranche and 100% of any prior tranche(s) as evidenced by a Project Financial Report submitted
by the CPC along with appropriate documentation.
22.   IDA will not finance taxes. To ensure this, IDA will only finance 90 percent of local
expenditures on equipment and supplies, where 'local expenditures' are defined as 'expenditures for
goods or services provided by suppliers/contractor of the Borrower's country or expenditures incurred in
local currency'.
23.   Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit
will be fully documented, except for the following, which may be claimed on the basis of certified
statements of expenses (SOEs): (a) expenditures for works contracts with an estimated value of US$
75,000 or less; (b) goods and equipment less than US$100,000; (c) US$ 100,000 or less for training,
workshops, studies, and study tours; and (d) consulting services with a value of US$ 100,000 or less per
contract for firms and US$ 50,000 or less for individual consultants. Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the MU and will be available for post review when
requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures
are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to
the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement
Letter.
24.   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and
services, the Government will open one Special Account in a commercial bank satisfactory to IDA, to be
managed and administered by the MU, in order to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures
under the project. Authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$500,000, covering
approximately three months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. However, the authorized



Annex 4
Page 8 of 9
allocation will be limited to an amount equivalent to US$250,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the credit plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
IDA in accordance with Section 5.02 of the General Conditions are equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 1,500,000. The MU will be responsible for submitting replenishment applications regularly with
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. Applications could be submitted every month under
normal circumstances, but not less than every three months. Withdrawal applications for direct payment
from the credit to suppliers/contractors may be submitted with adequate documentation. To the extent
possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the Special Account.
Accounts and Audits
25.   As soon as possible after the end of each Lesotho's financial year, but no later than six months
thereafter, GOL will, through the MU, present audit reports of all the project accounts (including the
special account, the LFCD accounts, and all sub-accounts) with a separate opinion on the use of the
special account and SOEs (para. on covenants). The auditor will also be expected to prepare a separate
Management Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for
improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
26.   An independent, external auditor who is relevantly qualified and experienced (for financial and
physical audit) will be appointed by effectiveness, on acceptable terms of reference. In Lesotho, the
Office of the Auditor General (AG) is responsible for external auditing of all Government funds.
However, Clause 31 of the Draft Legal Notice No. 6 of 1999 provides that the AG may delegate that
responsibility to an external auditor approved by him. Terms of reference for the audit will be modeled
on Annex XIX, FARAH of the World Bank (which contains "Sample Terms of Reference").
27.    For IDA purposes, besides expressing a primary opinion on the Annual Financial Statements
in compliance with either IFAC or INTOSAI Auditing Standards, the auditor will be required to include a
separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements.
Regarding the Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of
compliance with World Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. The audit report for the
community subprojects shall include a review of the Community Project Committee (CPC)'s
performance on a sample basis.
28.   In view of the fact that the project would have a large number of accounts including those at the
MU, at the community level, and at implementing agencies/partners, and that these would need to be
checked periodically, the LFCD Board will appoint a private audit firm to carry our semi-annual reviews
as an integral part of the annual audit, pending the establishment and development of the Internal Audit
Unit. In addition, the following actions will strengthen accountability for project funds: (a) maintenance
of a strong Internal Audit Unit, (b) recruitment and adequate training of qualified accounts staff at the
MU and at the district offices to ensure timely justification and maintenance of up-to-date books of
accounts, (c) training of the CPC members on project management, and where appropriate, appointment
by CPCs of project assistants to keep accurate records for them on a part time basis to be paid out of the
subproject funds.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 9
Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$       Financing
million         Percentage
1. Community Sub-projects                           1.20       100% of amounts of
community grants
disbursed
2. Goods and Equipment                                           100% offoreign,
and 90% of local
a. LFCD                                      0.29
b. Poverty monitoring                        0.06
2. Consultant Services, Training, Workshops, Studies,                100%
and Study Tours
a. LFCD                                      1.76
c. Poverty monitoring                        0.89
3. Unallocated                                      0.47
Total      4.67



-                                       a^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q 4vure. r4u
Your Reference:                                                      Telephone: 311619 Maseru
< /5  > S   OFFICE OF TEE MINISTER
OF PLANNING, ECONOMIC
AND MANPOWER
DEVELOPMENT
Annex 5                                                      P.O. BOX MS 630
MASERUt 100
LESOTHO
CPO/Cl82101/4                                            23rd March, 1998
Mrs. Pamela Cox
Country Director for Lesotho
Afiica Region
World Bank
1818H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
United States
Dear Mrs. Cox
Re: Letter of Policy on the Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund - Condition for
approval of Phase 1B of Lesotho Highlands Water Proiect
I have the pleasure to forward to you a Letter of Policy relating to the Lesotho
Highlands Revenue Fund (L{RF).
The Letter provides information on improved arrangements for managing the LHRF.
It also shows extensive measures being undertaken towards reformulating the
Development Fund of the LIHF. The objective is to design a comnmunity-based Fund
that is more responsive to the needs of the community, particularly the poor. The key
towards achieving this objective is ensuring community empowerment both during the
design and the operation phases.
I hope you will find all the contents of the Policy Letter to be in order. Please do not
hesitate to consult with me if such a need arises.
I look forward to hearing from you soon.
Yours faity  v        --..
L.V. ketso       -
Minister of Finance and of Economic Planning



Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
Highlands Water Development Project (Phase 1B)
Letter of Policy relating to the Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund
Background
The Lesotho fighlands Revenue Fund (LHRF) was created in 1992 with a view to ensure
a proper accounting and subsequent use of water royalties accruing to the Kingdom of
Lesotho as a result of the development of the highlands water resources under the
successive phases of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project. The institutional arrangements
and operating procedures applicable for the use of the proceeds of the LHRF Fund are set
forward in Legal Notice No. 9 1 of 1992.
A.s currently articulated, the objectives of the fund are to (i) promote economic
development and diversification through capital expenditures on projects, consistent with
Lesotho's Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and through enhancement of the
capacity of the public and private institutions to identify, prepare and implement suitable
projects; (ii) stabilize Government revenues; and (iii) generate supplementary long-term
revenue flows for the Government from income derived from other investments.
To meet these objectives, a Revenue Receiving Account has been established, with four
sub-accounts: the Development Account; the Revenue Stabilisation Account; the Long-
term Revenue Supplementation Account; and the Administrative Account. Each sub-
account is dedicated to a specific purpose. Through the operations of the LItF, finds
from Development Account finance development projects expected to contribute to the
overall economic development of Lesotho. The Revenue Stabilisation Account is to be
used to complement governrrent's general revenues when the need anrses. The Long-term
Revenue Supplementation Account may be used to offset any shortfall in expected
government's revenue on a need basis. Finally, the Admninistrative Account is set up to
cover all administrative costs associated with the management of the LIRE.
Revisions to Arrangements for Managing Lesotho Highlands Water Project
Revenues
GOL has recognised that the existing arrangements for the LIRF need revising. However
as against the envisaged date of I April for completion of the reformulation of the LHRF,
activities still to be undertaken predict that the reformnulation will be complete with the
operational manual by end of Mlay 1998. Cabinet has already decided that approximately
M75 million a year for the -ext four years will be available for the revised fund from the
proceeds of the water rovaxtIes  The remaining royalties will be managed as part of
GOL's general budget. T.,is simpler arrangement for managing the royalties ends the need



Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
to maintain the system of five sub-accounts. In future, only one account, for the revised
fund, will need to be maintained.
A workshop was held on 3 November, 1997 with key policy makers, made up of
representatives from governrnent ministries, NGOs, political parties and the private sector.
After considerable debate, it was agreed that the revised LHRF would have the following
primary objectives:
Obiectives
1. To reduce poverty in Lesotho, with particular emphasis in poverty-stricken areas.
2. To support local initiatives for employment creation and sustainable income generation.
3. To improve and protect the environment and the natural resource base of the country.
It was also agreed that the revised objectives will operate with the following key features:
Features
1. Community leadership in project identification, design, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. The foregoing would be reinforced through community-based training.
2. Projects that are financially, technically and environmentally viable and are subjected to
constant supervision for sustainability. Clear guidelines for project screening and
prioritisation be designed and there be transparency and accountability at all levels.
3. The capacity of implementing agencies be enhanced for efficient admninistration and
utilisation of resources. This includes the LHRF management, Local Government
structures, non-goverfmental organisations and other locally-based organisations (but
only as far as capital expenditure is concerned, such as training and office buildings, not
recurrent expenditure).
Consultative Process
In order to design and establish a revised LHRF that is responsive to the needs of
communities, the Ministry of Economic Planning has decided to hold a number of
workshops with key stakeholders.
The first workshop, on November 3, 1997 was for policy makers. During the workshop
broad consensus was reached on how a revised fund would operate. In particular, the
workshop agreed on the primary objectives and key features of the reformulated LHRF.



Annex 5.
Page 4 of 4
Over the past two years, studies and reports by various agencies were produced that
investigated the operations of the existing LHRF. Many recommendations
were made relating to how the LBRF might be reformulated. These recommendations
were considered at a second workshop held in December 1997. The December
workshop, focused more on the range of detailed design issues associated with
establishing a revised LBRF, including appropriate institutional arrangements.
Further consultations with communities took place at district level, from end of February
to mid March, 1998. The aim of these consultations was to seek the views of the
community, including the poor on a wide range of issues including (i) basic needs of the
poor; (ii) how the Government, the community and various stakeholder groups can join
hands to meet these needs, under the new LHRF.
Participants in these community-based workshops included: Principal and Area Chiefs,
District Development Councils, Non Governmental Organisations and some members of
the community who had been elected by the community to serve as the community
spokespersons at the workshops. This latter category was comprised of equal number of
men and women and it had been encouraged that the category should include the poor -
"the people who are actually affected by poverty". Other participants were senior
government officials at the district level.
At these workshops, consensus was reached on many critical design issues concerning
community basic needs for poverty alleviation, and measures to strengthening community
capacity to enable it to play an active and leading role in the LHRF.
To complement the information from community-based workshops, the Government has
selected twenty two villages all from poor areas (according to previous studies) and
engaged a consultant to run a participatory needs assessment in those villages.
In April, the results of thee various consultations and workshops will be consolidated into
an Operational Manual for the revised LHRF and community contributions and inputs will
be given considerable weight during the preparation of this document. This manual will
contain information on all policies and procedures to do with the revised Fund. It will be
made available to all communities.
A one-day workshop to discuss possible new governance arrangements for the
reformulated LHRF is also planned for April. A new Legal Notice replacing the existing
notice will also be prepared based on the outcomes of the workshops.
.............. ........... . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. 
L.V. KETSO
(Minister of Finance and of Economic Planning)



Annex 6: Summary of Project Workplan
2000
ID    Task Name                                                        Duration        Start           Finish        Dec        Jan      Feb       Mar       Apr       May       Jun        Jul      Aug
1    Establish LFCD Office                                              158 days    Mon 12113199     Wed 7119100
2         Recruit ED, Finance Director + Chief Accountant                81 days    Mon 12113199       Mon 413100
14        Recruit Adviser to ED                                          139 days        Fri 117100   Wed 7119100
27         Establish temporary LFCD Office for pre-op phase               20 days      Wed 3/1100      Tue 3128100
34         Procure essential equipmentivehicle                            66 days       Mon 413100      Mon 713100
40    Systems Development                                                153 days      Mon 1216/99      Wed W5100
41         Establish basic financial accounting system                    66 days      Mon 12/6199      Mon 3/6100
46        Institutional design consultant                                 51 days       Tue 2/1100     Tue 4111/00
52         Prepare Manuals                                                48 days       Mon 511100     Wed 715100
53             Community assessment/planning manual                       48 days      Mon 511100      Wed 715100
60              Community Implementation Handbook                         40 days       Mon 5/1/00      Fri 6123100
65    Consultations with Partners                                         40 days     Mon 4117100        Fri 619100
66         Line Ministries                                                40 days      Mon 4117/00       Fri 619100
69         NGOs                                                           40 days      Mon 4/17/00       Fri 619100
72   Information, education and communication campaiagn                  113 days      Mon 1/10/00    Wed 6114100
89    PRE-TESTS IN 22 COMMUNITIES (in 5 groups)                          147 days       Mon 511100    Tue 11121100
90         Preparatory work for pre-test                                   20 days      Mon 6/5/00      Fri 6/30/00
91         Recruit consultants for PRA                                    31 days       Mon 511/00     Mon 6112100
95         Pre-test for Group 1                                           42 days       Mon 713100     Tue 8129100
100        Pre-est for Group2                                              42 days     Mon 7124/00      Tue 9M9100
105        Pre-test for Group 3                                            42 days     Mon 8114100    Tue 10M0100
110        Pre-test for Group 4                                            42 days      Mon 9/4100     Tue 10131)00
115        Pre-test for Group S                                            42 days     Mon 9125/00    Tue 11121/00 I
Wkplanl1299 mpp                                                                                    Page 1                                                                                         Fri 12/3/99



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
Annex 6: Summary of Project Workplan
ID    Task Name        ___                                           Duration       Start  _       Finish        D         J        F         Mar       Apr      M         J
120   Income-generating Activities                                     257 days     Mon 5115100      Tue 518101
121        Recruit Consultant for Income-generating projects           101 days     Mon 5115)00    Mon 1012)00
131        Reveiw micro-credit + IGP experiences in Lesotho             47 days      Fri 10/6/00    Mon 12M11/00
136        Develop Plan of Action for IGP Component under LFCD          51 days    Tue 12/12100     Tue 2/20/01
141        Preparatory work for pre-test/pi/ot                          54 days    Wed 2121101       Mon 517101
142        Start a pre-test-pilot                                         1 day      Tue 5/8/01      Tue 5/8/01
14~3
144   Establish a Poverty Monitoring Team in MODP                       37 days      Tue 2/1100    Wed 3122/00
148   Develop a work plan                                               32 days     Thu 3/23100       Fri 515/00
152   Recruit Poverty Adviser                                          139 days       Fri 1(7/00   Wed 7/19/00
_.__ ._ ._ __   _   _ _                                                                                       Y.
165
166   Procure equipment for BOS                                         66 days      Mon 413/00      Mon 713/00 I
172   Pilot CWIQ                                                       100 days      Mon 413/00      Fri 8                                           _8/00
W_            _    _19. rnpp                                                                   Pag  2_1 2_                                                           _
Wkplanl299.mpp                                                                                 Page 2                                                                                      Fri 12/3/99



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Annex 6: Summary of Project Workplan
_  __           . _ _                    ~~~_T__T
ID    Task Name                                                          Duration        Start           Finish        Sep        Oct       Nov       Dec        Jan       Feb      Mar        Apr       May
I    Establish LFCD Office                                                158 days    Mon 12113199      Wed 7119100
2         Recruit ED, Finance Director + Chief Accountant                  81 days    Mon 12113199       Mon 413100
14         Recruit Adviser to ED                                          139 days         Fri 117100   Wed 7119100
27         Establish temporary LFCD Office for pre-op phase                 20 days      Wed 311100      Tue 3128100
34         Procure essential equipmentivehicle                              66 days      Mon 413100       Mon 713100
40    Systems Development                                                  153 days     Mon 1216199       Wed 715100
41         Establish basic financial accounting system                      66 days     Mon 1216199       Mon 316100
46         Institutional design consultant                                  51 days       Tue 211100     Tue 4(11100
52         Prepare Manuals                                                  48 days      Mon 511100       Wed 715100
53         -   Community assessment/planning manual                         48 days      Mon 5/1100       Wed 71/500
60              Community Implementation Handbook                           40 days      Mon 511100       Fri 6(23100
-1              ----_________                          __.,___               ____                         ___ _
65    Consultations with Partners                                           40 days     Mon 4117100        Fri 619100
66          Line Ministries                                                 40 dayst    Mon 4/17100        Fri 6/9/00
69         NGOs                                                             40 days     Mon 4117100        Fri 6(9(00
72    Information, education and communication campaiagn                   113 days     Mon 1110100     Wed 6114100
89    PRE-TESTS IN 22 COMMUNITIES (in 5 groups)                            147 days       Mon 511100    Tue 11121/00
90         Preparatory work for pre-test                                    20 days       Mon 6/5/00      Fri 6/30/00
91         Recruit consultants for PRA                                      31 days      Mon 511100      Mon 6112100
95         Pretest for Group 1                                              42 days       Mon 7/3/00     Tue 8129/00
100         Pre-test for Group 2                                            42 days      Mon 7124100      Tue 911 100
105         Pre-test for Group 3                                            42 days      Mon 8114100    Tue 10110100
110 t    Pre-test for Group 4                                               42 days       Mon 9/4100    Tue 10131100
115         Pre-test for Group 5                                            42 days      Mon 9125100    Tue 11121100
Wkplan1299.mpp                                                                                       Page 3                                                                                           Fri 12/3/99



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Annex 6: Summary of Project Workplan
ID    Task Name                                                      Duration       Start          Finish        Sep  |  Oct        Nov          Dec    Jan      Feb      Mar       Apr       May
120   Income-generating Activities                                     257 days     Mon 5115100      Tue 518101
121        Recruit Consultant for Income-generating projects           101 days     Mon 5115Y00     Mon 1012100
131        Reveiwmicro-credit+ IGP experiences in Lesotho               47 days      Fri 1016100    Mon 12111100
136        Develop Plan of Action for IGP Component under LFCD          51 days    Tue 12112100     Tue 2120101
141        Preparatory work for pre-tesUpilot                           54 days     Wed 2/21/01      Mon 5/7/01
142        Start a pre-test-pilot                                         1 day      Tue 5/8/01      Tue 5/8/01                                                                                 5/8
143
144   Establish a Poverty Monitoring Team in MODP                       37 days      Tue 211/00    Wed 3122V00
148   Develop a work plan                                               32 days     Thu 3/23100       Fri 5/5/00
152   Recruit Poverty Adviser                                          139 days       F 1D7100     Wed 7119100
165
166   Procure equipment for BOS                                         66 days      Mon 413100      Mon 713100
12 Pilt CWIQ'p                                                                         N            FW
172   Pilot CWIQ                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~100 days  Mon 4(3(00  Fri 8(118100
WkpIan1299.mpp                                                                                 Page 4                                                                                      Fri 12/3/99



Annex 7
Community Development Support Project
Organizational Structure for LFCD
2 Accounts Clerks  SecretarISOR
Director~~~Ditic Ofie
Tecnical Advisor   MaTec nialgfieren Fnanefso sar ,Am istati veAa.&Supr)t
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m o *11  3
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sitn Ai uditor.                          Training Coept Director|     etrjcEgnrl
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omncto Assistara
CifAccountant       Adrninistration Officer    ProcuremwentAsitn Of  oe                 Justiliration Clerk |         _
AconatAmnsrtvIsitn   Prcrmen sitn



Annex 8
Community Development Support Project
LFCD Project Cycles for Technical Complex and Simple Sub-projects
NB:. Monitoring is a continuos activity throughout the project cycle.                                  3
a
|                  4       SI~~~CMPLEX PROJET        >f 
. I   .   .                 ~~~~PROJECT CYCLEI
NB Moiorn isacniusatvt/hogottepoetcce
_    r   _ E   \                          /                 ,            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



Annex 9
Community Development Support Project
Summary of Participatory Community Assessment
Background
1.    In April, 1998, preliminary social data was gathered through a series of Participatory Community
Assessments (PCAs) carried out from all 10 districts, in Maseru, and, in peri-Urban Maseru. A total of 22
communities participated in the PCAs. The assessments were commissioned in order to inform the
Government of the status of local institutions, perceived levels of poverty, and development needs and
priorities as articulated from local levels. Procedurally, the PCAs are also part of the participatory
approach that has been adopted for formulating the LFCD strategies and processes.
Methodology
2.    A local NGO carried out the PCAs using well-established principals and techniques from the
Participatory Learning for Action methodology. The five field teams most commonly combined data
from focus groups, transect walks, community mapping, wealth ranking, seasonal calendars, and Venn
diagrams, though the exact combination of techniques used in each community, was determined by the
judgment of each team and the local participants. Field teams collected gender-disaggregated data where
appropriate. Site selection for the PCAs was determined geographically: by district, level of urbanization
and remoteness from infrastructure and urban centers.
Findings
3.    Poverty Levels: A total of 1,809 households were ranked: 16% self-ranked very poor, 51% self-
ranked poor, 25% self ranked average, 8% self ranked rich. In summary, 67% of households were
considered to fall into the poorer categories.
4.    Institutional Analysis: The most common community-based institutions were Village
Development Committees (VDCs), Burial Societies, Stock Theft Societies and churches. Of these, the
PCA found the function and reputation of the majority of VDCs to be questionable at best, mistrusted at
worst. While both Stock Theft and Burial Societies often have bank accounts, their basic accounting and
book-keeping skills are weak. Finally, the PCA found no linkages among community-based institutions.
5.    Community Links with Governmental, NGO and Private Sector: Such links were very specific
to each community; and all were stated to be project-oriented rather than ongoing. For example, where
some communities worked with government extension officers, others had (or used to have) an NGO
implementing a project. Significantly, the PCA points out that most of these projects were unsustainable.
Thus many communities' experiences are with projects that did not succeed in the end. Or, as was found
in communities in the Katse Dam are of the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, with projects that they feel
damaged their lives so that they to prefer not to participate in any future development projects at all.
6.    Development Needs/Priorities: In varying orders among communities and within their
populations, the major needs identified are: roads, footbridges, clinics, VIP latrines, donga rehabilitation,
schools (pre, primary, secondary, evening for herd boys), farming co-operatives, dams for irrigation or
fisheries, poultry projects, tree planting, electricity and markets. See table on page 4 of this annex for
each community's, gender-disaggregated priorities. Communities stated that they would provide local
materials and labor (some voluntarily, others only if paid)



Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
7.    Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF): The majority of communities was unfamiliar, or
had unfavorable experience, with the LHRF. Communities feel considerably ill-informed about the LHRF
and demand information sufficient for them to make informed choices.
8.    Community Capacity: Basotho communities include a broad range of people from various social
groupings. Communities therefore suggest that a local committee be elected for each sub-project to
ensure that different voices are represented. Many communities are dissatisfied with their VDCs whose
stated responsibility is to oversee community development. However, to be effective, communities'
recognize that elected LFCD sub-project committees must work closely together with the VDCs.
Communities' experience working together and ability to organize varies considerably. NGOs could help
build community capacity particularly where their presence is known and where their own capacity
exists.
9.    Communities favored using locally available resources (human and material) wherever possible
to promote a sense of community ownership and local management capacity, and also to provide
community members with skills and abilities for possible future employment.
Recommendations
Community Recommendations
10    Communities made the following recommendations with respect to how a fund for community
development should be implemented, managed, and kept sustainable. They recommend the following
implementation measures:
* Local, transparent and accountable committees should be elected for each proposed development
sub-project with specific roles and responsibilities
*  Implementing and monitoring committees should be elected for short and long term
+ Outside assistance is required for implementing sub-project activities
* Communities should provide labor (some say only with pay)
In terms of management, communities recommend:
* Bank accounts for any sub-project funds
* No cash system; checking systems with designated signatories necessary
+ Annual audits
* Bookkeeping and financial management courses for committee members
* Donor follow-up and evaluation
* Monthly financial statements presented to communities
* Elected committees and VDCs need to cooperate
* Support from Chiefs is important, and they should be responsible for local hiring
For sub-project sustainability, community recommendations include the following:
* Annual evaluation of sub-projects
* Community contributions (money) for sub-project maintenance in established bank accounts
* Sub-project committees elected annually, and evaluated on basis of quarterly reports
+ Chief and VDC should provide security
+ Technical assistance in implementation and management.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
PCA Research Team Recommendations
11.   The team of researchers carrying out the PCA adds the following recommendations:
*  In order for elected sub-project committees to work hand in hand with elected sub-project
committees, as was suggested by communities, a redefinition of the roles and responsibilities of
the VDCs is required. This is a sensitive and critically important institutional issue that requires
further deliberation and ultimately must be addressed by the Government
*  To establish a genuine participatory approach, communities should be involved throughout the
cycles of LFCD sub-projects. The Fund must continually revisit who is identifying, prioritizing
and articulating the need for sub-projects, and who sets criteria for and takes decisions about sub-
project funding.
*  Communities lack information about alternative assistance other than governmental, and this
hinders their ability to make informed choices. A comprehensive, ongoing information and
education campaign is essential to the success of the LFCD.
*  Piloting the LFCD in the communities who participated in these PCAs; demonstrating follow-
through would enhance the credibility of the LFCD and distinguish it from its predecessor.
Conclusion: Using the PCA findings for monitoring and Evaluation
12.   The PCAs provide rough baseline quantitative data on number of households, household
composition, community assets and other common property resources. Also importantly, the PCAs are a
source of qualitative baseline data indicating communities' experiences and expectations. These
qualitative findings should be monitored in the same PCA communities, as they participate in the LFCD,
as well as in communities not in the sample but benefiting from the LFCD, and in communities that are
not receiving LFCD benefits. PCA data has shown gender differentiation of needs and priorities.
Therefore monitoring and evaluation should seek gender differentiated data on perceived benefits of
LFCD sub-projects.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
Annex 9, Table A: List of Priority Sub-projects Identified by 22 Communities
District                Priority 1          Priority 2         Priority 3        Priority 4        Priority 5
Communt
Mahatseng         W    road                  bridge             school            toilets          evening class
,______________  __________________                   _______________    for  herd    boys
M    road                 toilets            sch. kitchen      clinic            bank
Thaba Moea        W    water                 mortuary          feeder roads       bank             toilets
-M   I water              feeder roads       mortua             market
Bobatsi          W    road                  taps _             VIP toilets        footbridge       nursery sch.
M    footbridge           water supply       prim. school      road              handicraft sch.
Ha Seotsa              road                  clinic            sec, school       VDC school        water pipes
Ha Rankakala           road/bridge           donga rehab/trees  police station    nursery sch.     clinic/arnbulance
Ha Moshebi        W    water                 bridge             roads             health/doctor    education
M    erosion control      bridge             wool shed         mortua            voc sch.
Sebelekoane      W    road                   bus               taps               poultry project    sewing mach.
M    ag. ext. for ag. prod.  road            feeder roads      pre- & voc. sch.   police station
Masemousa         W    no info on priorities
Ha Sechaba        M_ _  
Mekaling               road                  donga control      dams              clinic           tractors
Hloahloeng             road                 spring protection    brid e           hammermill       VIP toilets
Moyeni        <    <   community taps        street lights     donga              tree planting    road
_______________  _______ _______ ___   __ ____rehab/dam
Ha Makheta,            road                 water supply        clinic            VIP toilets      sec. sch.
Qhoaling                                                      I                 I                 I
Malefilona             roa                      car bridge      clinic            high sch.         VIP toilets
Motete                 road to B-B           maliba-matso       motete           roads             toilets
| Pela-Ts'oeu     _   | road                  clinic             coop              spring protection
Ha Kanono              well built houses   IItaps              I  toilets         Road               re sch
t     .    _ _ _._ __simmomom
Baking            W    clinic               trees to control    voc. sch.         dams             footbridge
erosion                                               _
M    road                 footbridge         renew dam         donga rehab       ag. ext.
Ha Mapa           W    clinic                erosion control    mortuary         toilets           prim. ed.
fI       If  m    M  tbridge                 t tsela           gclinic             erosion control    education
Ha Seeiso Cl      W   I bridge               road              toilets            public transpt.    nursery sch.
|   |  M  |  road          toilets            brdge             footbridge        nursery sch.
Makhaleng         W    water                 clinic            road               hammermill       fruit/veg market
Lestunyane        W    road & 2 footbridges   clinic            post office      reduce sch fees   sec.sch.
M    road & 2 footbridges   post office      mortuary           protected water   irrigation/dams/
I   I   I           I _________ _ ________________   _______________  supply  fishery...
Lesala            W    doctor                mortuary          road to Ketane    tractor           wheat harvest
I   I   I           I __________ _ ___ ______________   I ______________   _______________  m achine
I   |`M   | road          | hospital &        sekoto sa          Machinery         market
_______________         ________________ _ |mortuary           I  mothamo



Annex 10
Community Development Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned                   Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                            Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)           July, 1997               July, 1997
Appraisal mission departure                   June, 1998           February 20, 1999
Negotiations                                  July, 1998            May 17-19, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness              September, 1998         (est. April 1, 2000)
Prepared by:  Ministry of Development Planning
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD GrantNo. 29235
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Norbert Mugwagwa                      Social Funds (TTL from July 1998)
Ann Duncan                Poverty/Human Resource Devt. (TTL up to June 1998)
Chiyo Kanda                    HR Development/Economics (Deputy TTL)
Timothy Marchant                         Poverty Monitoring/M&E
Kam Chetty                     Decentralization/Institutional Development
Lori Geurts                             Task Team Assistant
Susan Jacobs                          Social Development/NGOs
Jacomina de Regt                         Operational issues/APLs
Steen Jorgensen               Social fund design and operations (Peer Reviewer)
T. Mpoy-Kamlayi                                  Lawyer
Elizabeth Adu                                  Lawyer
Francesco Sarno                               Procurement
V.S. Krishnakumar                              Procurement
Steve Gaginis                               Disbursement
Anthony Hegarty                           Financial Management



Annex 1 1
Community Development Support Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
*  Legal Notice for LFCD No. 16 of 1999, dated March 10, 1999
*  Operational Manual for Lesotho Fund for Community Development
*  Time table for project implementation
*  Job description for key MU staff for the LFCD
*  Terms of reference for Poverty and Social Policy Adviser (for Poverty Monitoring)
*  Financial Management Action Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Aide Memoire and Annexes from June 1998 mission (pre-appraisal)
*  Aide Memoire and Annexes from February 1998 mission (appraisal)
C. Other
*  Report for stakeholder consultations workshop (Design Workshop) in December 1997
* Report for the LFCD's Governance Workshop
*  Report for regional stakeholder consultation workshops
*  Report for study tours to Malawi and Ethiopia social funds
*  Reports for the Participatory Community Assessment (4 volumes and a consolidated
summary)
*  Report for stakeholder consultations workshop (Decision-making Workshop) in June 1998
*  Environmental Analysis of the Lesotho Community Development Support Project
*Including electronic files.



Annex 12
Statement of Loans and Credits
Community Development Support Project
Difference betNeen expec
and gua
Original Amount In US$ Mlilons     disbursemens
Ptoject ID   FY  Bormwer                  Purpose                           IBRD       IDA     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Fffn Re
Number of Closed Projects: 23
LS-PE-56416    1999 KINGDOM OF LESOTHO    SECOND EDU SEC DEVP                0.00     21.00      0.00     20.07    0.00    0.0
LS-PE-1402    1998 GOVERNMENTOFLESOTHO    AG POL & CAP BLDG                  0.00      6.80      0.00      6.82    1.2     0.0
LS43E-1409    1998 GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO    HILAND UWATER lB                45.00      0.00      0.00     45.00    10.00    0.0
LS-PE-1403    19i6 GOVERNMENT             ROAD REHAB. & MAINT                0.00     40.00      0.00     32.17   21.02   I1.
Total:    45.00     67.80      0.00    104.06    3Z22    13.9
Active       Closed
Projects     Projects      Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    10.40        251.75       262.15
of which has been repaid:     0.00         22.84        22.84
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    123.80       229.87       353.67
Amount sold:       0.00          0.00         0.00
of which repaid:     0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Undisbursed:    104.06          9.17       113.23
'Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
LESOTHO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                            Disbursed
1FC                                  IFC
FY Approval          Company                            Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                             Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00



Annex 13
Country at a Glance
Lesotho at a glance                                                              9/3/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Lesotho     Afrlca  Income      Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      Zt        628     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (AUas method, USS)                    570       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions):                    1.2       304     1,844
Average annual growth, 992-98
Population (%)                                       22         6       1.7
Laborforce (%)                                       Zs         2.8      1.9     GNP                             Gross
i                 f;i;   ~~~per   I           7      Ipnmary 
Most recent estimate (latst year available, 1992-98)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of,populabion below natonal povertyline)   49
Urban population (% of tota population)               28        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      56,       51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,O00 live births)              93        91        69
Child rnalnutrition (% of children under 1            16         ..       ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                62        47        74
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                    18        42        32              -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  108      77       108                 Lesotho
Male                                               102        84.    l113                  Low-income group
Female                                             114        69       103     _      ___                      _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic mtos'
GDP (US$ billions)                         0.19     0.37       1.02     0.87
Gross domestic investment/GOP              25.0    45.4        85.5       :                     rrade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP          10.7     16.3       32z5     33.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 -74.S    -70.0      -9.8    -42.7:
Gross national savings/GDP                 -58:0   -41.5       47.2     14.5
Current account balancelGDP                -90.2   -89.0      -26.3      -27.2
Interest payments/GDP                       0.1      1.5        1.8      2.4    la%rrnc                      Investm ent
Total debt/GDP                             12.7     69.9       64.6     80.0     s                           Ivsen
Total debt service/exports                  0.2:     3.5        6.        6.18
Present value of debtWGDP                     ..       ..     48.4
Present value of debt/exports                 .        ,       6Z4.4
Indebtedness
1977187  1988-98-9   1997     1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.8     .t7      8.0       -3.6      5.8             -    Lesotho
GNP per capita                     402      t.3      2.1       -5.4      3.8'                 Low-income group
Exportsof goods and services        1.6     8.0    19.1        15.8     12.61  _ _ __ __ __ _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth    ofoutputandinvestment(%)
(% of GOP)                                                                       30
Agriculture                                34.3    20.1        11.5      11.5    20
Industry                                   15.5    32.5       42.0      42.0    10.
Manufacturing                              5.0    14.9       17.2        ..
Services                                   50.2    47.5        46.5     46.5    *o_           94   os   s    07
Private consumption                       157.2    147.2       82.0    120.9   -20
General govemment consumption              17.4    22.8        27.8     21 7GDf    --GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                 110.2   131-.8      127.8    124.7
197747  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth ras of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agncutture                                 -5.6      2.3        0.7      4.6    40
Industry                                    4.1     10.3        1.1    -12.3    30
Manufacturing                             16.5      5.3        ..        ..    20
Services                                    4.3      6.0        6.6      4.8    I:
Private consumpton                          1.4    -2.7        13.8      5.0
General govemment consumption               8.0      4.4       17.0      0.9                       95   90   97 "
Gross domestic investment                   2.0     13.3        3.5    -10.4    .90
Imports of goods and services               2.3      1.6       11.9      1.6            -    Expos           lmpons
Gross national product                      2.4      3.6        4.5     -3.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (n bold) compared with In Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond witl
be incomplete.



I  .                     I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 29797
|BOTSMARA   O0{oDZVAO'lUR                                          28U00'                                        28-30' M3                                      29 00'
|  SAIA,D,Calodon' Seoooe  PMnhloooooo eno                ;                      O 10   5  20  25  i30 KILOMETERS
,0  ,    , ^6   0 3                                                t                                <            .3 1,  j t                        5~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 U T H
_ 002IIAFooM.o- o                                                                  6 THE oo   JoelA   F  R  I C  A
This' map f<  prodQced by thB           2730              Pek  idqe                      7- t  +Mnco   i. dOa8ogMIt               ~    S      I      JjoheI                          So
Map Design Unit o f Th. W-rldbal                                jR- k          9               abk't\              &                           nJ               _Y       Ltegfaf7e 2
any ndoseme! a acCpt 4L E0af OTOOache \)                                                    o    *<Y1Noo 9                 HIkosio  ooe    oRolboo                             z      5     
TM '.                                                                         R.
50000~~ ~ ~ AFRICAk                                                                              Oh 0Ma0S000_ Puoe8ERE       c >r5 t>oapoae                             a
-'        tn.    fi \Ab                                                                                     Molhe k lo                                                                           2 9a.
( Ram;< 8.ts+9'AP5EtRfJ ; Mcn                                                                Rbo Roh       o     ln T ''&';                                                     SOU;THAB  x,SnPs>
Th\ Wdd 8-k G-p, -y j.d                          Y.                                           Mola -ob  bsoidg  4  Ohoo  ano  W oTE
SephapdsaS  >i   l tr,Thohna,1f5rnb.;  {     ToS oN       l ,o      0b'            K 0                                      iIotuocs/u*o,)
TIo boondonia     M O   ,> o Clooo,dsnomooo   R                          000                   no
s+  t    -aMOPHu,5eng   j .,. 9                   <             NenOq,,                                            L E S O  T I KO
,!p \ooo MoiTo Word Bob      CoUIT   DEVELOPMENToERE
ood  nyotor ,fooooflo, ohwo o                Mob       ro      Toloto  Fob ro        RoTH  el                                                    SUP          OR PIROJEC0Ti
tleoro    >                                                                                         OK..]se;9abs  --                                            Poopoline oDIITATV  ITeICT
- -0AR P p .-                                I     R      O         U      R
.,~~~~~~~_w ~  ~        ~        .
cool, boondoroos.                                                    OIntO0OORJk        0 0                                              01000                                        LOR0 1 _lk
HoMbooo Mmo, lB                                            0          0NoMoI
MoqhoMo~oooIo~                                               o~f  (    Rlooooo4MOKH~AoNG                                              x.-k
Moms0 bidge Rooenosissio ooSo0o9yooemWoo~So~ioeogY  5~ R EA  N       0~                                               -o>v.   sooorlon
MASERD  F/~~~~~o'No,jMAte  m~~~~~~"~~7~~                            ~~9Ro oRb~~
~~"nMoobhooooog           1<       "
k- ~ ~ ~ ~ e~00 jt 
MfItotoo  0~~  <boo    Y2Phoo29o0~t  potod~                 Mobbek                         0 Oobolro                   hoNo,-        000 3.
-so&1MCIHAIo 0y0HOEKMfooo.--g'KlooT,...-0 
.iooboon  ~ ~ ~ ~   .o     0   9022o Slob40.1-9 Mooopl 0obooPMiloe 
F~~0~t~ooolo~I   -Lp~ To)               H-kaMP  ---
ol,Kloolo  -.    ooo1bo  0                                                                                                                         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  E5    T 'H   '
T.fmn .>,'             OlUH0G                                                                              PVE  ROD                                              SELECTEphClTE RoNDeTOWN
r-J0t300eLKwhepp-l                                                                                                                GRAVEL RO D                                      l DSTITHAQARE                          W0
30000   'VoAo               0             /                             -- '7 302I bo29o0>                                                                                                                    SPTEMEo4



