              Document of
           The World Bank




                                      Report No: 27944-LSO

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (IDA-33080)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.67 MILLION

          TO THE KINGDOM OF

              LESOTHO

                FOR A

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT PROJECT




             March 29, 2004

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective March 22, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Maloti
                                    M1.00 = US$ 0.16
                                 US$ 1.00 = 6.44

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                April 1 -  March 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BA            Beneficiary Assessment
BOS           Bureau of Statistics
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CDD           Community Demand-Driven
CPPR          Country Portfolio Performance Review
CWIQ          Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
GOL           Government of Lesotho
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IEC           Information, Education and Community
LCDSP         Lesotho Community Development Support Project
LFCD          Lesotho Fund for Community Development
LHRF          Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund
LHWP          Lesotho Highlands Water Project
LHWRF         Lesotho Highlands Water Revenue Fund
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MIS           Management Information Systems
MODP          Ministry of Development Planning
MTR           Mid Term Review
MU            Management Unit
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
NPP           National Poverty Program
OM            Operational Manual
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PSR           Project Status Report
QER           Quality Enhancement Review



                            Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                         Country Director     Fayez Omar
                          Sector Manager      Dzingai Mutumbuka
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Hope Phillips Volker

                                          LESOTHO
                          Community Development Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P058050                                                  Project Name: Community Development Support
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Hope C. Phillips                                        TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 5, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Community Development Support Project                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-33080
   Country/Department: LESOTHO                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (38%); Other social services
                            (36%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (10%);
                            General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (8%); General
                            transportation sector (8%)
                  Theme: Civic engagement, participation and community driven development
                            (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S); Access to urban services for the poor (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/19/1998                                     Effective: 04/18/2000                07/17/2000
     Appraisal: 02/19/1999                                         MTR: 09/30/2001
      Approval: 12/20/1999                                      Closing: 09/30/2003                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO/MINISTRY OF DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Fayez S. Omar                                  Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Hope C. Phillips Volker                        Norbert O. Mugwagwa
ICR Primary Author:             Hope C. Phillips Volker


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HU
                      Sustainability:      HUN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          HU


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. Lesotho, completely surrounded by South Africa, became independent in 1965. Its political
landscape has been turbulent, including a military takeover of the Government in 1986 and the
establishment of an Interim Political Authority as a result of civil unrest experienced after the 1998
elections. The Lesotho Highlands Revenue Fund (LHRF) was established in 1991 (Act No. 82 of 1991)
to guide the use of revenues from the World Bank-supported Lesotho Highlands Water Project (LHWP)
Phase 1A. The LHRF was highly politicized due to the leading role that members of parliament played in
identifying projects and beneficiaries in their constituencies, and the lack of guidelines for accessing
funds. This was confirmed in an audit of the Fund in 1996 which found that the Fund (a) had been used
by politicians to garner support from their constituencies, (b) had created assets that were inferior, (c)
had a limited impact on poverty, and (d) was not used in a transparent manner.

The Government of Lesotho's (GOL) use of the revenues from LHWP for poverty reduction was a
pre-condition for the Bank going to the Board with Phase 1B in June 1998. The LHWP Projet Appraisal
Document (PAD) indicates that the letter of Sector Policy, completed after a broad consultation process,
envisages a two window approach to the use of the LHWP resources with one being "a community
driven, labour intensive, poverty focused Social Fund" which "is being implemented with IDA assistance
(in the form of a Learning and Innovation Loan....GOL has agreed (i) not to re-open the Fund for new
commitments until the new procedures have been put in place, nor recommence disbursements on
existing commitments until each project has been subject to a "technical review" by a qualified
appropriate authority ...In addition, prior to effectiveness of the loan, GOL will submit to IBRD an
enacted legal notice implementing new LHWP Revenue Fund structure and procedures, per the Policy
Letter, and an interim operations manual for the Fund, acceptable to IBRD." The PAD further notes,
under the sustainability section of the main sector issues and Government(s) strategy(ies), that "the
sustainability of the activities funded by the project revenues, while outside the scope of the project are
critical to achieve the project's objectives. These will depend on (i) the operations and transparency of
the Revenue Fund, (ii) the effectiveness of the Social Fund window within the Revenue Fund....." The
first critical risk in the Project outputs to development objectives is "under political pressure, GOL may
override technical concerns and reopen the Development (Social) Fund window of the LHWRF before
putting the new procedures in place, hence reducing the poverty reduction effectiveness of the project
revenues". This risk is rated as moderate, with high and negative impact if it comes to pass; the
minimization measures included: (a) formal commitment in the policy letter and a commitment not to
re-open the Fund prematurely; (b) effectiveness condition based on the enactment of new legal notice
with respect to the operations of the Fund, and the submission of an interim operations manual
acceptable to IDA; (c) de factor low case IDA support to GOL should the fund be re-opened prematurely;
and (d) continued dialogue at technical level and communication of risks to political level". Possible
controversial aspects of the LHWP included a statement relating to the Revenue Fund indicating that
GOL "is implementing significant changes in the way in which the Fund is operated ....Since a prime
rationale for the Bank's involvement in the project is the benefits to Lesotho, some may argue that a
stronger track record be required in this regard in order to proceed". Main Loan Conditions in the PAD
indicate that prior to Negotiations a draft Policy Letter covering GOL intentions for the LHWP Revenue
Fund would be provided, with the signed Policy Letter being a condition for Board Presentation.
Effectiveness conditions included an "enacted legal notice implementing new LHWP Revenue Fund
structure and procedures, per the Policy Letter, and an interim operational manual for the Fund,
acceptable to IBRD". This scenario set the stage for both the design and implementation of the Learning
and Innovation Loan (LIL).

The LHRF was reformulated with the intent of supporting community demand-driven (CDD) activities
with a poverty reduction focus, giving preferential focus on five pre-identified poor districts, as well as the
peri-urban areas of Maseru. This new entity, the Lesotho Fund for Community Development (LFCD),
was established through a Legal Notice in March 1999, and began operating in 2000. All of the LHRF
assets and liabilities were transferred to LFCD, including 18 on-going sub-projects, which the LFCD was
expected to complete.




                                                       - 2 -

One of the objectives of Lesotho's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board on June
4, 1998, was to support the stated development agenda of the GOL of promoting poverty reduction. One
core activity was reformulating the LHRF to increase its effectiveness and impact on poverty. A second
activity identified in the CAS was the strengthening of national monitoring systems to improve poverty
data. While the Lesotho Community Development Support Project (LCDSP) was small in monetary
terms (US$4.7 million), its satisfactory implementation was a condition for Lesotho being in a high case
lending scenario.

The first objective of the Lesotho Community Development Support Project (LCDSP) was to test
demand-driven and participatory approaches through a multi-sectoral special fund and draw lessons on
how to support community development in Lesotho. It was expected to explore whether the LFCD could
(a) effectively promote sustainable community development by supporting participatory project planning
approaches, and (b) address the needs of poor communities by funding participatory CDD activities in a
more efficient and effective manner than supply-driven programs. LCDSP would fund the testing of
these hypotheses in 22 poor communities identified during preparation. The second objective was to test
various mechanisms and tools to monitor poverty trends in Lesotho and to coordinate national poverty
monitoring and analysis activities. The Project sought to contribute to the overall implementation of
national poverty reduction strategies by helping to build the capacity to collect and analyze data on
poverty and evaluate the extent to which development programs benefit the poor. One of the key tools
to be tested was the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ).

The LCDSP objectives were clear, directly in line with the CAS, and supported the Government's stated
poverty reduction agenda. Due to the risk-prone environment in which the CDD approach would be
undertaken, a decision was made that IDA resources would be used to test out this mechanism through a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). An Operational Manual (OM) was formulated to guide the process
for CDD activities to be funded not only through the LCDSP, but GOL resources as well. While LCDSP
only had three components, it should be considered complex and demanding on the Borrower and
implementing agencies for the following reasons. The implementing agencies had never worked with the
Bank, GOL had limited involvement in CDD approaches, and the local government structures, which
were expected to play a significant role in the sub-project cycle, were yet to be established. Having one
implementing agency for the CDD activities, and two implementing agencies for the poverty component
also contributed to the challenge of reporting and supervising. The number of institutions that would be
involved under the first component could not be identified a priori, since activities would be
demand-driven, but experience from other social funds indicate that typically there are many.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
There were three components in the Project: (1) Support to Establishment and Implementation of the
LFCD; (2) Capacity Building Activities for the LFCD; and (3) National Poverty Program Implementation
and Monitoring. Overall responsibility of the Project rested with the Ministry of Development Planning
(MODP). The day-to-day management of the first two components was the responsibility of the newly
established Management Unit (MU) in LFCD, and would involve close collaboration with national, district
and community level structures. An OM had been prepared, providing the sub-project cycle as well as
the institutional arrangements, and financial guidelines were also prepared to guide the implementation.
Lessons from other social fund operations in the region informed the design. The sub-components under
the National Poverty Program Implementation and Monitoring would each be managed by different units
in MODP. The MU at LFCD was expected to provide administrative and financial management services
for all the components, through facilitation of procurement and disbursement. Recognizing the need for
capacity to implement the Project, funding for capacity building was provided under each component.
The components were reasonably related to achieving the development objectives.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.



                                                    - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
If looking solely at the technical design of the Project, then the quality at entry would be rated as
satisfactory, however, there is more to the story. The design was the culmination of a participatory
process (see 7.1 below for more detail) to agree on how to utilize revenues from the LHWP in line with
GOL's stated objective of poverty reduction. The Project was also consistent with the objectives of the
CAS dated June 4, 1998, which indicated that the Bank's lending would be contingent, among other
things, on "the implementation of programs to deal with poverty reduction (such as the establishment of
the enhanced LHRF)". The CAS further states that the social fund LIL is being prepared to support the
reforms of the LHRF, and indicates that triggers for Lesotho to maintain a high case lending scenario
include the establishment of a social fund by enacting legal notice and adoption of an OM for LHRF on
agreed schedule, implementing monitoring of the Poverty Action Plan, and putting systems in place for
collecting poverty data. There was recognition of both the potential negative and positive impact that
LFCD could have on the environment, with assessment of such impact built into the sub-project cycle.
The technical quality of the project was satisfactory, with an OM that clearly articulated the operational
mechanisms, including the sub-project cycle, financial and procurement management, as well as the
institutional arrangement. The potential risks to the Project were accurately identified, as well as
appropriate mitigation measures (see 7.1 for further detail). From a technical point of view, upon
fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness, the LCDSP was well placed to commence testing of CDD
activities, and testing various mechanisms and tools to monitor poverty trends.

The task team failed to harmonize the PAD and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with the
former indicating GOL's contribution as US$5.67 million, while the DCA required a contribution of US$36
million. The first amount presumably related to the GOL requirements for the LIL, while the DCA amount
carried with it the requirements that had been agreed to for supporting the LHWP. The inclusion in the
DCA that the US$36 million provided to LFCD had to follow the OM, even before the CDD approach had
been tested, affected the LIL's performance ratings. The expectation, in hindsight, that a US$4.7 million
LIL would be able to leverage approximately US$36 million so that Lesotho could/would remain in a high
case lending scenario and allow the Bank to provide funding for an on-going project was overly optimistic
of the Bank and negatively impacted on supervision. As a consequence, the quality at entry is rated
unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As a result of the failure to fully test the CDD approaches using the OM, and with no documentation
reflecting lessons learned relating to poverty monitoring, the outcome of LCDSP is rated highly
unsatisfactory. Due to decisions by GOL and the LFCD Board during the implementation, prolonged
delays were experienced in taking the 22 pilots through a complete sub-project cycle. Only 5
sub-projects had been approved by June 2002, and 12 more were approved in May 2003 (4 months
before the closing date). As a consequence, a revised OM was not prepared, beneficiary assessments
were not undertaken and evaluation reports not prepared. The delay also meant that it was not possible
to undertake post-completion evaluations of sub-projects. The files do not contain semi-annual reports
on LFCD's activities and operations, and no strategy for an action plan for the future of LFCD has been
agreed upon between GOL and the Bank. While GOL-funded sub-projects were implemented during this
LIL's implementation, they could not be used to draw lessons, since they did not, in contravention of
Section 3.01.(c) of the DCA, follow the procedures in the OM. The CWIQ was piloted and subsequently
one survey was carried out and the results published. However, a strategy to monitor poverty data and
trends at national level, reflecting lessons learned, was not provided to the Bank by the due date. While
the PAD identified the expected lessons to be derived in the areas of economic, financial, institutional,
social, and participation, their achievement is rated as negligible as a result of the serious delays
experienced, and the consequent inability to test processes. Based on the information available, the
achievement of testing poverty targeted intervention is rated negligible.




                                                     - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Support for the Establishment and Implementation of the LFCD, which included
    l    Community sub-project investment cost (US$1.3 million: Communities US$0.1 million, IDA
         US$1.2 million)
    l    Systems development and operationalization (US$2.2 million: GOL US$0.7 million; IDA US$1.5
         million)
    l    LFCD management and coordination (US$4.1 million: GOL, US$4.1 million)

This component is rated highly unsatisfactory since it was not able to test demand driven and
participatory approaches and provide lessons for their support in Lesotho. A number of decisions taken
by the LFCD Board affected the achievement of the objective. Major delays were experienced while the
Board reached agreement on (a) the purpose of the pilots; and (b) the appropriateness of the 22
pre-selected sites. The absence of anticipated institutional structures to undertake activities within the
sub-project cycle, and the necessity for some communities to amend their requests due to their costs, all
contributed to delays. The first group (5) of sub-projects was approved 23 months after effectiveness
and their implementation commenced 5 months later; a second group (12) was approved 4 months
before the closing date. The remaining five communities did not receive funding from LCDSP because
their sub-projects required procurement through National Competitive Bidding and insufficient time
remained to complete the activities before the closing date. The Technical Advisory Committee,
Management Information Systems (MIS) Unit, the Internal Audit Unit, the Communication and Capacity
Building Unit, and the Justification Section were not established as provided for in the OM. The adviser
to the Executive Director was not employed; the information, education, and community (IEC) activities
were not undertaken; and there is no evidence that additional handbooks were prepared. The review of
income generation projects, a secondary priority, was not undertaken, due to the higher priority
sub-project activities. Financial and accounting systems were set up, but difficulties were encountered in
computerizing them. The MIS to monitor progress was not linked to the financial system, further
complicating the reporting process. While the monitoring and evaluation aspect of the LIL was clearly
defined during preparation, it was problematic during implementation, and continues to be so, as
evidenced from the inconsistent data provided by the LFCD on financing and procurement, lack of data
on procurement and financing of the poverty monitoring component, as well as lack of data on a number
of the indicators that it was expected to track. While the MU staff was appointed through clear and
transparent procedures, two Board slots were never filled, and the Board member composition was
ultimately skewed in favor of Ministers. On a positive note, LFCD staff did receive training in
management and operational skills.

2. Capacity building Activities for the LFCD had two sub-components, namely
    l    Capacity building for LFCD (US$0.3 million: GOL US$0.1 million, IDA US$0.2 million)
    l    Capacity building for LFCD partner institutions (US$1.1 million: GOL US$0.4 million, IDA US$0.7
         million)

This component is rated unsatisfactory since information on a number of the key performance indicators
is unavailable. No information is available on whether the 17 funded sub-projects reflect the
communities' needs and priorities since the bulk of the sub-projects only commenced four months before
closing. Information from LFCD indicates that each of the 17 sub-projects had a community contribution
of 10%, although no information is available on whether the communities have the knowledge or ability
to operate and maintain the asset created. Records indicate that 47 LFCD staff were trained in financial
management and disbursement, information technology, and visits were undertaken to other social
funds. No information is available on the types of training provided to the 14 intermediaries who were
trained. Information about the socio-economic status, gender and type of training provided to the 250
community members is also unavailable.

3. Implementation and Monitoring of the National Poverty Program included
    l    Data for Poverty Analysis (US$0.8 million: GOL US$0.1 million, IDA US$0.7 million)
    l    Program monitoring and poverty analysis (US$0.6 million: GOL, US$0.2 million, IDA US$0.4
         million)



                                                    - 5 -

This component is rated unsatisfactory because it did not test various mechanisms and tools to monitor
poverty trends in Lesotho or coordinate national poverty monitoring and analysis activities. While it did
test the Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ), no information is available on the number of
staff trained in poverty analysis and monitoring, on the number of reports and studies on poverty
recorded in the poverty monitoring system, on whether there has been a reduction in the Bureau of
Statistics' survey turn around time, or a reduction in duplicated or uncoordinated poverty
monitoring/analysis activities. Delays were experienced in both sub-components, with only one CWIQ
being undertaken, as opposed to the envisaged two. With staff attention focused on preparation of
GOL's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, it was agreed that the activities to be supported under
program monitoring and poverty analysis should await the outcome of this exercise in order to ensure
synchronization and harmonization. Consequently, little if any financial support was provided to this
sub-component under LFCD.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) indicated that qualitative, process-based analyses of least-cost
alternatives were utilized during preparation. It was expected that the LFCD would attempt to minimize
the costs by using local labor, community participation, and provision of unit cost data to the community.
No unit cost data were available through LFCD. While it is possible that local labor was used in many
instances, whether funded through LCDSP or GOL, consultations undertaken as part of the Beneficiary
Assessment (BA) indicated that some communities did not always feel that this was the case.
Community participation was the basis for selection of sub-projects in the 22 pilots, but there is no
indication that this was the case for those projects funded from GOL. The PAD stated that LCDSP would
maximize the benefits by responding to community needs, allowing for application of appropriate
technology and project design based on local needs and capacity, and promoting operation and
maintenance by beneficiary communities themselves. No analysis of either the LCDSP pilots or
GOL-funded projects was undertaken. The BA notes a lack of clarity on the part of communities funded
through LFCD about their role in maintenance of sub-projects that were identified by Members of
Parliament. The PAD noted that, to the extent possible, cost-benefit analyses would be carried out
comparing LFCD sub-projects with conventional supply-driven projects; this has not taken place. The
PAD further noted that while social funds typically enhance efficiency in resource allocation in meeting
the needs of the people, specific "targeting" measures were supposed to be used to encourage resource
allocation in favor of poor segments of the society as well as the types of sub-projects that would have a
greater impact on poverty. Funding from IDA for sub-projects was going to finance sub-projects
identified by 22 communities that had been pre-selected based on poverty data. An analysis of the
sub-projects approved by the Board for LFCD financing indicate that, as of November 2001, 34 of the 39
subprojects (87%) were located in the lowland, relatively better off, districts. Since studies indicate that
poverty is more pervasive in the highlands, it would appear that the LFCD Board was not following the
gazetted purpose of the Fund, ".....to provide effective management of the Lesotho Highlands Water
Project water royalties allocated to it for community driven projects intended for poverty alleviation."

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No Financial Rate of Return was calculated for the Project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The LCDSP was supposed to fund capacity building activities that were expected to contribute to the
institutional development of the stakeholders (government, non-governmental organizations, and
communities). Due to the changes instituted under the first component, and the delays experienced in
piloting the 22 sub-projects identified during preparation, the institutional development impact under the
first and second components are negligible. Support provided to the Bureau of Statistics for undertaking
the CWIQ under the Data for Poverty Analysis sub-component contributed to building some capacity of
that institution. In the absence of any funding provided for the program monitoring and poverty analysis
component, the LCDSP made no financial contribution towards institutional development under this
sub-component. Consequently the institutional development impact is rated as negligible.




                                                     - 6 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The LCDSP was designed and subsequently implemented during a time of political uncertainties. This
had a substantial impact on implementation, and consequently the outcome.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
GOL's decisions relating to the composition of the Board affected the implementation of LFCD. The
decision to appoint Ministers to the Board of LFCD instead of Permanent Secretaries, as recommended
by the design teams, had a major impact on LCDSP as well as the LFCD. This change affected the
Board's ability to act expeditiously and introduced a significant political element into the policy setting
body. This situation was further exacerbated when GOL increased the number of Ministers from four to
six, thereby giving this group a majority. In 2001, the LFCD Act was amended to allow Members of the
National Assembly to submit proposals, moving its mode of operation closer to that of the ill-fated LHRF.
It is also significant that the Local Government Act, 1996, and the Local Government Elections Act,
1998, were never implemented. As a result, central line ministry staff were tasked with sub-project
costing, and the resulting constrained capacity led to delays. The abolition in 2001 of the existing District
Development Councils and Village Development Councils left a further vacuum where key players had
been expected to participate in providing technical, supervisory and monitoring support to sub-projects.
These decisions substantially affected the achievement of the LCDSP outcomes. Finally, GOL's failure
to provide the agreed annual allocations to LFCD contravened the DCA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Board's decision to alter the agreed institutional structures in LFCD substantially affected the ability
to test CDD and participatory approaches. Not only were the Internal Audit Unit and Management
Information Unit abolished, but the Communication and Capacity Building Unit and the Sections
responsible for procurement, project development, and justification were never established. The Board's
decision to reduce the number of staff at the MU, which was also expected to provide financial and
administrative support to the poverty components, affected the MU's ability to fulfill that duty. Failure to
seek clarification on Bank procedures in procurement and disbursement resulted in the MU utilizing GOL
funds to undertake activities that should have been funded from LCDSP; this partially contributed to
disbursement lags. The choice of the Board to halt IEC activities, when GOL abolished the Councils at
district and village level, also substantially affected the ability to test the agreed procedures in the OM.
Not having some of the necessary in-house skills made the MU reliant on other institutions (i.e., sector
ministries for costing) whose capacities were stretched. The Board's decision to delay the process of
taking the 22 pilots through a cycle, while moving ahead without following the OM for GOL-funded
sub-projects (in contravention of the DCA), negatively affected the achievement of the testing objective
of the LIL. Since the chairman of the Board is the Minister of Finance, this raises serious questions
about GOL's commitment to LCDSP.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The estimated Project costs in the PAD are shown as US$10.4 million for the 3 year LIL which was
signed in January 2000, and became effective in July 2000 after a 3 month extension. The IDA
contribution was SDR 3.6 million (approximately US$4.7 million). The first withdrawal from the Credit
was made on January 8, 2001 to establish the Special Account. The GOL contribution of US$5.67
million given in the PAD is at variance with the amounts that GOL was expected to transfer to LFCD per
the DCA. The DCA provided for agreed annual allocations up to 2002/03, when their appropriateness
would be reviewed, with future allocations to be based on LFCD's operations and impact, and
prospective demand for its resources. While the DCA expected GOL to contribute a total of Maloti 225
million to LFCD in three installments (40, 85, 100) on specified dates, delays were experienced in
receiving the installments, and the amounts were reduced for year 2 and 3, with the result that only
Maloti 100 million in total (40, 30, 30) was transferred. Since the value of the sub-projects approved by
the Board for GOL funding was in excess of the amounts transferred, one assumes that there was
demand for the resources. Therefore it is possible that the reduction is the result of GOL's displeasure
with the way the LFCD was being implemented, and its lack of demonstrated poverty impact, although



                                                      - 7 -

no specific information is available on this. The largest proportion (57%) of the Project was expected to
fund the Support for the Establishment and Implementation component of the LFCD. Of that,
approximately 44% was IDA's contribution to the 22 pilot sub-projects, and the remainder was to be used
to develop and operationalize systems. GOL would be wholly responsible for financing the LFCD
management and coordination, and LCDSP would fund systems development and operationalization.
Decisions by the Board with respect to staffing and the sub-project cycle resulted in a number of
activities not being funded from the LIL. There was significant delay in the approval of the pilots, and
five were not funded from the Project. There were delays in the poverty monitoring activities to be
funded by LCDSP, some of which could not commence before the closing of the Project. All of this, and
the implementing agencies' uncertainties about what was eligible for IDA funding, contributed to the slow
pace of disbursement: instead of disbursing 95% by 2003 as projected in the PAD, only 11% (excluding
the advance to the Special Account) of the Credit had been disbursed by May 2003. At the Bank's
urging, and in response to a formal GOL request, a cancellation of SDR 1.2 million (approximately
US$1.8 million) was effected on June 23, 2003. As of the end of the disbursement grace period (January
31, 2004), only 48% of the reduced Credit has been disbursed. Audit reports have been delayed, and
there has been a delay in receiving replenishment requests. On January 31, 2004 withdrawal
applications amounting to approximately $750,000 were received in the Bank. A review by the Loan
Accounting Group shows that there was no indication of the category to be charged and some of the
invoices included tax payments, and many were direct payment requests to suppliers for sub-projects.
This raises the question of whether the communities actually managed the funds for sub-project
implementation. It is estimated that around another US$900,000 will be cancelled once the final
payments have been made. It should be noted that the most recent data provided by the MU for project
costs and financing is incomplete and inconsistent (see Annex 2).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
During implementation, decisions taken by GOL suggest that the commitment necessary to undertake
the activities as planned was not maintained. Since most of the pilot sub-projects funded by LCDSP did
not commence until the end of the Project, and the sub-projects funded by GOL did not follow the agreed
guidelines for testing systems for CDD in Lesotho, testing of local participation and social impact was
also not possible. In the absence of local government structures, the testing of systems that included
their participation was not possible. Support for poverty data analysis provided some information on
poverty in Lesotho, but whether the activities would continue without external support is questionable.
Based on the foregoing, and the failure to achieve the outcomes/objectives, sustainability is rated as
highly unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given the experiences from LFCD, GOL is in the process of deciding LFCD's future, and how to utilize
the revenues which had supported it. This includes the possibility of moving responsibility for some of
the revenues to Local Government; the Bank, however, has received no formal communication on
GOL's current deliberations in this regard. It is not clear, in the absence of data, what impact the support
provided through this mechanism has had on poverty. There is insufficient information from the LIL to
indicate whether this mechanism is suitable for scaling up in the Lesotho context, although the
experience from the GOL-funded sub-projects appears to indicate that a stand-alone operation of this
type is unsuitable for scaling up in the Lesotho context. As a result of the constraints faced by LCDSP, it
is recommended that discussions about possible Bank support to CDD in Lesotho be framed in the
context of lessons from the LCDSP and LFCD, and include relevant technical staff.




                                                     - 8 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
While the technical preparation of the Project would be rated satisfactory, the unrealistic expectation, as
described in Section 3 above, merits a rating of unsatisfactory since it had a major impact on the
supervision stage of the Project.

The preparation team's performance is rated satisfactory. Notwithstanding the political environment in
Lesotho, the preparation of the LCDSP was undertaken in a participatory manner, and received
comprehensive support, with relevant skills included in the team. There was enthusiastic support for the
concept from both Bank management and GOL, although the latter's keenness was blunted by political
turmoil towards the end of preparation. The Project, as noted above, was in line with the Borrower's
stated development strategy, as well as the Bank's CAS. Preparation was supported by a 42 million Yen
Bank-managed Japanese Grant (TF029235), that was signed on May 5, 1997. The Grant provided
technical assistance in support of the preparation of what was then called the Poverty Reduction Project.
Based on the preparatory activities, the design that emerged resulted in changing the name of the
Project to LCDSP, and opting for a LIL, which was an appropriate choice given the uncertain outcome.
The design of the Project was simple, with guidelines for implementing the sub-projects provided through
the OM, which could be revised based on lessons learned during implementation without requiring
amendment to the DCA.

The appraisal team's performance is rated satisfactory. Relevant skills were included and the team
reviewed GOL commitment, proposed governance structure, sub-project cycle and performance
indicators. Given the history of LHRF and the prevailing political environment, the first risk was
appropriately identified as "change in political commitment to the LFCD's goal of poverty reduction". The
minimization measure taken, as indicated in the PAD, was that the "Policy Letter of March 23, 1998
clearly states GOL's commitment to the LFCD's goal and the revised Legal Notice formalized its
commitment". A second mitigating measure was "Progress in the LFCD operations according to its
principles is a trigger for a high case scenario in the CAS". This reflected Bank management's
expectation that GOL would honor its commitment relating to the use of the revenues from the LHWP for
poverty reduction, utilizing agreed procedures. The appraisal team noted that the LIL would constitute
the "first phase in the implementation of the reformulated LFCD", whereas the DCA states, in Section
3.01. (c) "The Borrower shall:.....(b) ensure that all LFCD's operations are carried out in accordance with
operational guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual". The IDA financing, as
designed, was appropriate, although there was a discrepancy in the documents (PAD and DCA) on what
GOL's contribution would be. While experience from poverty monitoring components, with separate
implementing agencies, tacked onto social funds has shown that such arrangements tend to be
problematic, this finding emerged after this Project's design. Government's decision to appoint Ministers
to the Board, contrary to the strong recommendation made by the preparation teams to appoint Principal
Secretaries, introduced an element of politicization from the start.

With the fulfillment of the conditions of effectiveness, the LCDSP was, on the surface, well placed to
commence testing of (a) CDD processes, and (b) various mechanisms and tools to monitor poverty
trends. However, by the time the Project was declared effective, GOL had already approved
sub-projects for its funding without following the OM. As implementation proceeded, it was clear that the
expected commitment did not exist, and linking the LCDSP to the LHWP created difficulties during
implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Notwithstanding the proactivity of the Bank during implementation, the Bank performance in supervision
is rated unsatisfactory as a result of its failure to (a) provide realistic performance ratings in a timely
manner, (b) enforce the loan covenants, and (c) administer remedies because of the Project's ties to the
LHWP. The team faced a challenging environment from the outset: a small LIL expected to leverage
much larger government resources, and its success a promised condition for the Bank support to a high
profile and controversial project, LHWP. Effectiveness was delayed by three months to July 2000, by



                                                       - 9 -

which time GOL had changed the composition of the Board by increasing the number of Ministers on the
Board from four to six further politicizing the LFCD. While staff had been seconded to fill key posts, the
hiring of permanent staff through a competitive process meant that incoming staff had to be brought up
to speed, contributing to delays in implementation. The Prime Minister and the Country Director officially
launched the LFCD in February 2001, by which time 14 of the 25 sub-projects approved, without
following the OM, by the Board in May 2000 for GOL funding were under implementation.

During most of the implementation there were no changes to the task team, although reviews by
members of the team occured at times as individuals rather than as a team. As has happened in other
social funds, the review of and support to the poverty monitoring component often took place separately
from the "regular" reviews; this was the result of staff availability and budget constraints. The Project
Status Reports (PSRs) indicate that the first time a procurement or financial management specialist
participated in a mission with the task team was in January 2003, 8 months before the closing. There is
no evidence in the file to indicate that the team made attempts to link the supervision of the LCSDP with
the LHWP, which might have provided more leverage for achieving the objectives of testing processes,
and possibly affect GOL's compliance with the DCA. The in-country reviews by the Bank's technical
team took place on a semi-annual basis, with 2002 being an exception when the team leader participated
in the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in March, and the planned for Mid-Term Review
(MTR) was postponed three times (the first due to impending elections and the others at GOL's request),
and ultimately not undertaken.

Over the life of LCDSP, the team continuously sought guidance and intervention from Bank
management on the challenges being faced. These apprehensions were communicated by management
both orally and in writing to GOL, and included the Bank's concern with the formalization by GOL of
allowing members of parliament to submit proposals (Legal Notice No 101 of 2001), and the failure to
utilize the OM. In preparation for the CPPR, held half way through the Project, the task team prepared
options (cancellation, restructuring, partial cancellation) for consideration, and meetings were held to
agree on the way forward. The message conveyed to GOL during the CPPR was that cancellation would
be a possibility unless the agreed to action plan arising from the CPPR was adhered to. A quality
enhancement review (QER), undertaken at the behest of the task team prior to the anticipated MTR,
noted that despite the challenges faced by the LIL, only modest attention had been paid to it by the Bank,
evidenced by the budget allocated, and its impact on the duration of the reviews and composition of the
Bank teams. The QER further noted that while the reviews had focused on technical aspects they should
have addressed the political-social economic issues, and, given the apparent lack of ownership by GOL
aside from the technical and Ministry of Finance staff, this should be rectified. Advice from the Country
Team, prior to the planned May 2002 MTR attended by members of the QER panel, advocated adopting
a problem-solving mode in discussing issues with the Government. Upon written advice that GOL had
not implemented the action plan arising from the CPPR, and with the failure to undertake the MTR,
senior management agreed with GOL that a review team would be sent by the Bank to discuss the way
forward with GOL. This culminated in a recommendation from the January 2003 review to cancel
approximately US$2 million of the LIL. As unilateral cancellation by the Bank was not an option both
from a legal standpoint as well as from the program/relationship management point of view, GOL's
written request was needed to effect cancellation. Repeated follow up within the Bank and between the
Bank and GOL finally resulted in GOL's written request, almost five months after the agreement had
been reached, to cancel this amount. The cancellation was effected three days after GOL's request on
June 23, 2003. A final review, including the carrying out of an independent assessment, was undertaken
in May 2003. The team's recommendation for GOL to hold a dissemination workshop around the
findings was never responded to by GOL, despite various reminders.

While there had been consistent communication between the task team and the Country Management
Unit about the concerns surrounding the Project, the PSR did not reflect the concerns until almost half
way through the Project. Risk ratings, including "change in political commitment" was only upgraded
from "modest" to "substantial" in August 2001, one year into implementation, and upgraded to "high" in
February 2002, almost half way through the LIL. The "unsatisfactory" rating was given for
implementation progress, as well as the "other legal covenants" in February 2002, in spite of the
contravention to the DCA from the start of implementation. The Project Development Objective



                                                     - 10 -

continued to be rated "satisfactory" until March 2002 when it was finally downgraded to "unsatisfactory".

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the performance during preparation and supervision, the Bank's performance is rated as
unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
As noted above, the preparation of LCDSP arose from an agreement by the GOL in 1997 to reformulate
the LHRF into a Fund whose principal objective would be poverty reduction. This agreement was a
requirement for Bank support to the LHWP Phase 1-B.

The reformulation was a participatory activity. A workshop to discuss the modalities was attended by
members of the Board of LHRF, various Ministry and Development Fund staff, staff from the Lesotho
Highlands Development Association, District Secretaries, as well as representatives from the NGO
community and universities. The workshop broadly accepted that to meet the poverty reduction
objective, poverty targeting measures would have to be put in place. A phased approach to the Fund
would be taken, with preference given to the pre-identified poorest areas. It was agreed that information
about the Fund should be shared widely and that the Fund should operate independently of political
influence. While agreement was reached that the Fund should be accountable to Government, there
was no consensus on the degree of its autonomy (i.e., what level of Government should the Fund report
to), the composition of the Board, and the type of management. Questions on the type of projects to be
supported, whether on a grant or loan basis, the degree of community contribution, and whether it was
possible to direct finance the communities, also needed resolution.

A design team (with representation from the Ministry of Economic Planning, Development Fund, Lesotho
Highlands Development Association, and an NGO representative) was appointed and received support
from a consultant in the Ministry of Economic Planning. Government confirmed at this time its interest in
a LIL, and the initial appraisal/negotiation was tentatively scheduled for May 1998. In support of the
broader poverty agenda, and the proposed poverty-targeting and impact monitoring of the Fund, the
possibility of supporting elements of the poverty monitoring system were also discussed. During the
reformulation exercise, consultations were also held with poor communities and their representatives at
district level to ensure the broadest consultation, and increase the Fund's chance of achieving its
objectives. The draft OM was discussed and generally accepted at a workshop attended by both
Government and non-governmental stakeholders, and it was agreed that their views would be
incorporated into the Manual. By June 1998, the components were broadly agreed. The Legal Notice
establishing LFCD which was gazetted in March 1999 included a nine-member Board, with four Ministers
(as opposed to the design teams' recommendation of Principal Secretaries) and NGO representation, to
be assisted by a Technical Advisory Committee consisting of technical level members. The Board would
report to the Prime Minister. While the team foresaw some of the political pressures that LFCD would
face given its predecessor's history, and designed measures to mitigate these, it underestimated the
extent of the challenges that the Fund would encounter, and the changes that would be instituted to
negatively affect achievement of the objectives, in particular its own Government's commitment to the
Project. Even prior to effectiveness, the Board had approved 25 sub-projects for funding without using
the OM, as it had agreed to do when it negotiated the Project and signed the DCA. The preparation is
therefore rated unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of Government implementation is rated highly unsatisfactoy because of changes that it
instituted during implementation. While GOL appointed key staff in the MU, and did set up the Board, its
failure to appoint the two community representatives to the Board, and increasing the number of
Ministers on the Board, diluted the representativeness of the Board and increased the political dimension
in the LFCD. While the OM clearly indicated that projects submitted for approval must come from the
communities, an amendment (Legal Notice No. 101 of 2001) formally allowed Members of Parliament, in
consultation with their constituencies, to identify, prepare and submit project proposals to LFCD. As



                                                     - 11 -

described previously in the document, actions taken by GOL during implementation raise questions
about its commitment to the objectives of LCDSP; although enough counterpart funds were provided for
LCDSP, it failed to provide the overall funds that it had agreed to during negotiations and confirmed
through the signing of the DCA. While GOL postponed the MTR in the first instance because there was
only an acting Minister of Finance, and on the second occasion to allow the newly appointed Minister
time to familiarize himself with the Project, failure to ultimately undertake this activity was an opportunity
lost for both partners to review and agree on remedial actions to help LCDSP meet its development
objectives.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Decisions taken by the Board of the agency implementing LCDSP led to the failure to achieve the first
objective of the LIL, and the incomplete implementation of the poverty monitoring component meant that
its objectives were also not met. Their performance is rated highly unsatisfactory. Questioning by the
Board on the necessity to pilot, as well as the appropriateness of the pre-selected communities which
had been identified based on poverty indicators, delayed implementation by 18 months. Analyses of the
costs of the 15 subprojects implemented indicate that 7 (46%) were above the US$75,000 ceiling for
sub-project costs provided for in the DCA and the files have no record of IDA providing its agreement to
funding above the ceiling, a requirement in the DCA. The variation between the procedures for GOL-
and LCDSP- funded sub-projects challenged an already under-staffed MU, which was expected to
provide financial and administrative support to the poverty monitoring component. There is only one
progress report in the Bank's files, indicating unsatisfactory reporting on the part of the MU. Analysis of
the GOL-funded sub-projects is provided under Additional Information below.

None of the activities under the Program Monitoring and Poverty Analysis sub-component were
undertaken. Since the Bureau of Statistics also got off to a slow start, it was only able to conduct one
round of the CWIQ survey, instead of the two originally planned.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, borrower's overall performance is rated highly unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

        Without Government commitment, a small amount of money will not leverage a much larger
         amount of money. It was optimistic to expect a $4.7 million project (LCDSP) to leverage GOL's
         contribution of $36 million to the LFCD , despite GOL assurances given during LHWP Phase 1-B
         preparation as an indication of their commitment.
        The importance of aligning the key Project documents. Failure to harmonize the PAD and the
         DCA can lead to confusion during implementation and completion.
        Appropriate measures need to be taken, including the provision of necessary resources, as soon
         as deficits (such as failure to adhere to the OM) are identified, or once attainment of the
         development objectives became questionable. Given the stated importance of this LIL to the
         lending scenario for Lesotho, insufficient Bank resources (both human and financial) were
         provided to ensure the appropriate support.
        The importance of providing realistic ratings in Project Status Reports. Bank staff could avert
         problems, such as those experienced in this Project, at an earlier stage by paying closer
         attention to disconnects in Project Status Report ratings.
        Support for poverty monitoring may not be best placed in CDD operations. Given the Bank's
         goal of poverty reduction, an appropriate mechanism, outside of CDD operations, for supporting
         the monitoring of poverty needs to be identified.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The May 2003 Aide Memoire indicates GOL's agreement to draft an ICR by August 31, 2003. To date



                                                      - 12 -

this draft has not been formally shared with the Bank. This ICR was shared with GOL on March 11,
requesting their comments by March 25, 2004. To date no comments have been received.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The LFCD was created in March 1999 through a legal notice incorporating the contents of the OM, which
had been adopted by Cabinet in 1998. Article III, Section 3.01(c) of the DCA required that all LFCD
operations be carried out in accordance with the operational guidelines and procedures set forth in the
OM. The OM in the Bank files shows that one of the criteria for appraisal of sub-projects was that the
sub-project cost did not exceed Maloti 450,000 (which is approximately equivalent to the US$75,000
ceiling in the DCA at the time of negotiations). In addition to the sub-projects inherited by LFCD from
LHRF, the LFCD Board approved 65 sub-projects for GOL funding. Out of the 65, 47 (72%) were
approved above the threshold of Maloti 450,000. Of the 24 sub-projects approved in July 2000 (as the
Credit was being declared effective), 17 (70%) were above this threshold, 8 were above Maloti 1,000,000
and 1 had costs in excess of Maloti 10,000,000. This not only raises questions about whether the bulk of
the sub-projects funded by GOL could in fact be termed CDD, or whether they should be considered
public sector investments, but hints at the disregard with which the Board viewed GOL's obligation to the
DCA. There is no information available on the responsibility for maintenance of the assets created.

There is no data relating to the performance indicators that were supposed to track the average delivery
time for LFCD services to ensure that it was in line with OM guidelines (e.g., approvals, disbursement).
Communication from the implementing agency indicates that the expected delivery time between
approval and start-up (which usually consists of handing over the first tranche) was four months. While
the implementing agency states that all LCDSP sub-projects met this target, a review of the GOL- funded
sub-projects where data was available (55 of the 65), shows that 74% of the sub-projects took over 4
months between approval and start-up. The specific breakdown is provided in the table below.

                    Number of sub-projects and the time between approval and start-up
                                         for GOL-funded sub-projects


                     No. of Months between
                     approval and start-up                No. of Sub-projects
                                2                                  1
                                3                                 13
                                5                                  4
                                6                                 13
                                8                                  3
                                9                                  2
                               11                                  9
                               13                                  1
                               14                                  1
                               15                                  5
                               16                                  2
                               19                                  1


The following table provides information relating to the number of sub-projects per district, as well as the
value of sub-projects per district, for both GOL and IDA funded "sub-projects", bearing in mind that the



                                                    - 13 -

22 communities for IDA funding were pre-selected during preparation.


              Number, Value and Percentage of Sub-Projects by District by Funding Source

  District/Funding         LFCD                    % of LFCD     IDA                   % of IDA
  Source                approved #s      Maloti    total Maloti pilots   IDA Maloti total Maloti
  Berea                     10         12,699,064          14%         2    1,647,155         12%
  Butha  Buthe              3           3,596,207           4%        2      851,717         6%
  Leribe                     7         22,035,010          24%         2      381,585         3%
  Mafeteng                   9         16,056,906          18%         3      126,925         1%
  Maseru                    15           5,960,943           7%        3    3,499,375         26%
  Mohale's Hoek              8         12,244,490          14%         2    2,364,445         17%
  Mokhotlong                 2           1,694,095           2%        2    1,669,690         12%
  Qhacha's Nek               2             820,142           1%        2    1,131,669         8%
  Quthing                    3         12,232,939          14%         2    1,468,245         11%
  Thaba  Tseka              6           3,114,273           3%        2      527,000         4%
  TOTAL                     65         90,454,069        100%         22   13,667,806       100%

*N.B. Districts in italics were those to receive preferential support from LFCD, with the target for Maseru
being the peri-urban section. Information is not on file as to whether the Maseru sub-projects are in the
peri-urban area.

An analysis of the GOL-funded sub-projects indicates, if one assumes all of the Maseru sub-projects
were in peri-urban areas, that 29 of the sub-projects, or 60% of the total funding, were not in the
preferential districts.

The information available on GOL-funded sub-projects does not indicate what, if any, contributions
communities made to the sub-projects.




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 A practical and appropriate methodology The said methodology adopted after             Delays in taking the pilots through a full
adopted for community needs assessments         necessary revisions and/or adaptations.    sub-project cycle has not allowed this to be
and participatory planning process, and for                                                achieved. Of the 22 pilots, 5 approved in
appraisal/ implementation/ maintenance for                                                 June 2002, 12 approved in May 2003.
community demand-driven sub-projects, with
a view to achieving poverty reduction.

1.2 Expected benefits from sub-projects         Beneficiary assessment indicating expected Implementation delays have not allowed this
assessed by e.g. level of user satisfaction,    benefits.                                  to be achieved. Only one beneficiary
efficiency of operations and maintenance of                                                assessment undertaken, and this was funded
the facilities, poverty targeting, relevance of                                            by the Bank through a Trust Fund.
investment to community needs.

1.3 Semi-annual reports of LFCD's activities                                               The files only contained one report prepared
and operations submitted to IDA, no later                                                  in anticipation of the Mid-Term Review.
than 45 days after the end of every 6 months.

1.4 A strategy, reflecting the lessons learnt                                              Not done.
and acceptable to IDA, adopted by June 30,
2002, to support community development,
including an action plan for the future of the
LFCD.

2.1 The Core Welfare Indicators                                                            CWIQ tested, but no evaluation on record.
Questionnaires (CWIQ) piloted and its
effectiveness and adequacy as a tool for
poverty monitoring evaluated.
2.2 A strategy or an action plan, reflecting                                               An action plan was not received by
the lessons learnt and acceptable to IDA, has                                              September 30, 2002. Poverty monitoring
been adopted by September 30, 2002, to                                                     issues are being addressed under the PRSP.
monitor poverty data and trends at the
national level.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                 Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Number of subprojects approved, under 22                                               17 completed, 5 not implemented.
implementation and completed.


1.2 LFCD Board members and MU staff                                                        All the staff at MU and District Offices (but
appointed through clear and transparent                                                    one) appointed, and 2 regional offices and 5
procedures.                                                                                district offices (but one) established. The
                                                                                           post of Advisor to ED cancelled.


1.3 Operational Manuals and other technical                                                OM developed, but not tested rigorously. No
guidelines, manuals, and handbooks                                                         other manuals prepared.
developed and tested.


1.4 Financial management systems and                                                       The FM system still manual. An accounting
project management information systems in                                                  package purchased, but some customization
place and functioning effectively.                                                         may be needed.


1.5 The LFCD office established and                                                        Achieved, but not as originally agreed to.
operational.


1.6 Number of communities reached by IEC                                                   IEC campaign not undertaken.
campaign.




                                                                 - 15 -

1.7 Average delivery time for LFCD services                                                   The OM in our files does not have guidelines
is in line with Operational Manual guidelines                                                 on delivery time; LFCD assumed a 12 month
(e.g. approvals, disbursements).                                                              peroid for a complete sub-project cycle.


2.1 % of sub-projects that reflected                                                          All of the 17 subprojects reflected the
communities' needs and priorities.                                                            communities' needs, although not necessarily
                                                                                              their highest priority.
2.2 % of community contributions of total                                                     10%
sub-project costs.


2.3 Knowledge/ability of the community to                                                     Data not available.
operate and maintain the infrastructure
built/rehabilitated.


2.4 Number of LFCD staff trained by type of                                                   47 LFCD staff trained, but no data on
training.                                                                                     number of staff by type of training provided.


2.5 Number of intermediaries (NGOs, Line                                                      14 partner institutions were trained but no
Ministries, etc) trained by type of training.                                                 information is available on type of training.


2.6 Number of communities and community                                                       250 community members trained. Not
members trained by socio-economic status,                                                     stratified by socio-economic status, gender,
gender and type of training.                                                                  and type of training.
3.1 Number of staff trained in poverty                                                        Information not provided.
analysis and monitoring by type of training.


3.2 Number of reports and studies on                                                          Information not provided.
poverty recorded in the poverty monitoring
system.


3.3 Reduction in BOS survey turn-around                                                       Information not provided.
time (from end of fieldwork to first report).


3.4 Reduction in duplicated or uncoordinated Capacity to produce information/data on          Information not provided.
poverty monitoring/analysis activities.        poverty status systematically, utilize the data
                                               for regular monitoring/analysis, and
                                               coordinate related activities.

1 End of project




                                                                 - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million      US$ million
 Lesotho Fund for Community Development:
     Community Sub-projects                                          1.10             15.40            1663
     Systems development and implementation                          1.80              0.60               44
     Operational costs                                               3.40              2.70               79
 Capacity Building and Institutional Support                         1.20              0.36               30
 NPP Implementation and Monitoring:
     Data for poverty monitoring                                     0.70
     Program monitoring and poverty analysis                         0.50


 Total Baseline Cost                                                 8.70             19.06
  Physical Contingencies                                             0.40
  Price Contingencies                                                1.30
                           Total Project Costs                      10.40             19.06
                    Total Financing Required                        10.40             19.06


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                   2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                               0.00             0.20             1.00           0.10          1.30
                                      (0.00)            (0.20)          (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.20)
2. Goods                               0.00             0.10             0.30           0.70          1.10
                                      (0.00)            (0.10)          (0.30)         (0.00)         (0.40)
3. Services                            0.00             0.00             3.10           0.90          4.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (3.10)         (0.00)         (3.10)
4. Operating Costs                     0.00             0.00             0.00           4.10          4.10
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                               0.00             0.30             4.40           5.80          10.50
                                      (0.00)            (0.30)          (4.40)         (0.00)         (4.70)
1Includes international or national shopping, community participation, force account. Also includes
consultant services, costs for in-service training, workshops and study tours.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                  2        N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Works                               0.00             0.03            1.40          14.00          15.43
                                      (0.00)           (0.03)          (1.40)         (0.00)        (1.43)
2. Goods                               0.00             0.00            0.20           0.40          0.60



                                                     - 17 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (0.20)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.76             0.00              0.76
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.76)            (0.00)           (0.76)
   4. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             2.70              2.70
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00               0.03              2.36             17.10            19.49
                                           (0.00)             (0.03)            (2.36)            (0.00)           (2.39)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Support to
establishment and
implementation of the
LFCD
 Piloting of 22 projects        1.20         0.10                     1.42         13.80                 118.3    13800.
                                                                                                                     0
 Systems development            1.50         0.70                     0.19         0.40                  12.7      57.1
 LFCD management                             4.10                                  2.70                            65.9
2. Capacity building
activities for the LFCD
 Training in operational        0.20         0.10                     0.10                               50.0      0.0
systems for financial and
project management
  Training partner              0.70         0.40                     0.76         0.10                  108.6     25.0
institutions
3. National Poverty
Program implementation
and monitoring
  Data for poverty              0.70         0.10                                                         0.0      0.0
monitoring
 Program monitoring and         0.40         0.20                                                         0.0      0.0
poverty analysis




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/01/1997                5    TTL; ECONOMIST; LEAD
                                             SPECIALIST OPERATIONS ;
                                             SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER;
                                             NGO/ INSTITUTIONAL
              06/08/98                  8    TTL; ECONOMIST; LEAD
                                             OPERATIONS ADVISER; SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER;
                                             POVERTY MONITORING
                                             AND EVALUATION; SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT;
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/01/1999                1    FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              02/22/1999                7    TTL; ECONOMIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL (1);
                                             POVERTY
                                             MONITORING/M&E (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); SOCIAL
                                             FUND MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             OFFICE MANAGER (1)
              05/17/1999                4    TTL (1); SENIOR COUNSEL
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              06/14/2000                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              02/07/2001                2    TTL (1); SOCIAL FUND (1)         S               S
              06/20/2001                2    SOCIAL FUND                      S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             POVERTY MONITORING (1)
              12/01/2001                3    TTL/SR. ECONOMIST (1);           U               S
                                             SOCIAL PROTECTION SP. (1);
                                             LEAD STATISTICIAN (1)
              3/26/2002                 1    TTL                              U               U
              01/24/2003                5    TTL/SR. ECONOMIST (1);           U               U
                                             POVERTY MONITORING (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1); SOC
                                             FUND/POL DIALOGUE (1)

 ICR
              05/31/2003                6     TTL/SR. ECONOMIST (1);          U               U



                                              - 20 -

                                            FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            POVERTY MONITORING
                                            (1); LFCD ASSESSMENT
                                            (1); COMMUNITY
                                            FEEDBACK (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                            109
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                            102
  Supervision                              67                          291
  ICR                                   7.96                           21.1
  Total                                                              523.1




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Participation
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

LFCD Operational Manual, May 2000
Quality Enhancement Review (QER) report, April 2002
Lesotho Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) Survey 2002, Bureau of Statistics
Report on Progress in Implementation of the Lesotho Fund for Community Development (LFCD), June
2002
Independent Assessment, Ramson Mbetu, draft dated June 2003
Beneficiary Assessment, Thope Matobo, draft dated June 2003




                                                 - 24 -

- 25 -

