Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3308-LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Community Development Support Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 19, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3308-LSO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 2000, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through\0bDecember 2, 
1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a)
“Beneficiary Community” means a community duly represented by a Community 
Subproject Committee (as hereinafter defined), which is a recipient, or proposed to be 
a Recipient, of a Grant (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“BOS” means the Bureau of Statistics within MODP (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(c)
“Community Subproject Committee” means the committee to be established by 
each Beneficiary Community in accordance with the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) for the purpose of identifying, preparing and carrying out Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined);  
(d)
“Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between LFCD 
and a Community Subproject Committee for the financing of a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined) through the provision of a Grant (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
“Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by LFCD to finance a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project; 
(f)
“LFCD” means the Lesotho Fund for Community Development, established by 
Legal Notice No 16, dated March 10, 1999 for the purposes of promoting and financing 
small scale development initiatives undertaken by communities at the local level; 
(g)
“MODP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Development Planning; 
(h)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating in the territory of 
the Borrower; 
(i)
“Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by the Borrower on May 19, 
1999 regulating the functioning of LFCD, and the implementation of Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(j)
“PMR” means the Project Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
“PMT” means the Poverty Monitoring Team referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(m)
“Subproject” means a specific development project which meets the 
criteria set forth in Paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and further detailed 
in the Operational Manual, and which is to be financed in whole or in part out of the 
proceeds of the Credit;
(n)
“Revenue Receiving Account” or “RRA” means the account referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and 
(o)
“Maloti” means the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Page  3
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary Community 
under a Subproject to meet the reasonable costs of goods, works or services required 
for such Subproject and in respect of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is 
requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2003, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2010 and ending December 1, 2039.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
Page  4
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain LFCD with functions and responsibilities 
and staff in adequate numbers, all satisfactory to the Association; and (b) ensure 
that all LFCD’s operations are carried out in accordance with operational guidelines 
and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and maintain the RRA in its central bank under the name of the LFCD 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
deposit into the RRA an aggregate amount of not less than 225 million 
Maloti which shall be disbursed in three annual installments to be determined as 
follows: (i) an initial amount of not less than 40 million Maloti shall be deposited 
into the RRA by April 15, 2000; (ii) unless it shall have been agreed upon otherwise 
with the Association, the amount of the second and third installment shall be equal to 
85 million Maloti and 100 million Maloti respectively; and (iii) the amount of the 
Page  5
said second and third installments shall be deposited into the RRA by April 15, 2001 
and April 15, 2002 respectively; and  
(c)
ensure that the proceeds of the RRA are used by LFCD only for the 
purposes of funding community driven Subprojects and other activities entrusted to 
LFCD with a view to fostering and monitoring the reduction of poverty in the 
Borrower’s territory, all in accordance with the operational procedures and guidelines 
set forth in the Operational Manual. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than September 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
Page  6
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association, an Operational Manual in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has appointed as: (i) Executive Director of the LFCD; and 
(ii) as LFCD’s Director for Finance and Administration, professionals with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has recruited the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) 
of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower has adopted financial management and accounting systems 
acceptable to the Association for LFCD. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister  of the Borrower responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of\0bSection 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 100
Page  7
Lesotho
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMIN
4330 LO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ Lebohang Kenneth Moleko 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects
   900,000
100% of amounts
under Part A
disbursed by LFCD
of the Project
(2)
Equipment, furniture,
100% of foreign 
       supplies and vehicles
expenditures and 
90% of local expenditures
Page  8
(a)
for Part A of 
  220,000
the Project
(b)
for Part B of   
   45,000
the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services
100%
and training
(a)
for  Part A of 
1,300,000
the Project
(b)
for Part B of 
  660,000
the Project
(4)  Unallocated 
               475,000
TOTAL                      3,600,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after February 22, 1999; and 
(b)
expenditures under Category (1): (i) until the LFCD has adopted a 
financial management and accounting system acceptable to the Association; and (ii) 
unless the Subproject has been made in accordance with the criteria, procedures and 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) Subprojects under contracts costing less than 
$75,000 equivalent each; (c) services: (i) for firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (ii) for individuals under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) test a demand-driven and participatory 
approach through a multi-sectoral special fund and draw lessons as to whether it is an 
appropriate mechanism to support community development in the Borrower’s territory; 
and (b) test various mechanisms and tools to monitor poverty trends in the Borrower’s 
territory and to coordinate national poverty monitoring and analysis activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Lesotho Fund for Community Development 
1.
Carrying out of Subprojects related to health, education and vocational 
Page  9
training, water supply and sanitation, watershed management and irrigation, 
environmental management and land reclamation, rural and urban markets, road 
infrastructure and revenue-generating traditional and non-traditional activities for 
the benefit of a Beneficiary Community. 
2.
(a)
Establishment of computerized management information systems including, 
inter alia, an accounting and financial management system and an operations monitoring 
and evaluation system as required to monitor and improve the efficiency of LFCD’s 
operations.
(b)
Training of LFCD’s relevant staff in maintaining the management 
information systems referred to in paragraph (a) above and to keep them up to date at 
all times. 
3.
Strengthening the capacity of LFCD to adequately select, monitor and supervise 
Subprojects through the provision of technical advisory services. 
4.
Production and dissemination of information, education and communication 
materials and provision of appropriate training to all relevant groups, including 
community organizations, NGOs, public officials and elected leaders on LFCD’s 
objectives and operating procedures, so as to enable them to assist the communities in 
identifying, preparing and carrying out Subprojects. 
5.
Formulation and implementation of a training program aimed at building up the 
capacity of local communities to implement, manage and maintain facilities and 
physical infrastructures developed as a result of any Subproject. 
Part B:
Poverty Monitoring 
1.
Carrying out of studies and research on poverty and social issues, and 
systematic poverty monitoring, through the conduct of household and community surveys, 
specific beneficiary and participatory assessments, and collection of statistics and 
information. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the relevant MODP staff to conduct poverty 
analyses and formulate appropriate policies required to combat poverty within the 
Borrower’s territory through the provision of training. 
3.
Establishment and maintenance of a national data base on poverty and related 
social issues and dissemination of poverty data among government agencies and the 
public at large.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of\0bSection I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost more than $75,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost 
more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  10
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Force Account 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Office equipment, computers and vehicles may be procured from the United Nations 
Inter-Agency Procurement Office in accordance with the provisions of\0bparagraph 3.9 of 
the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part A.1 of the Project and estimated to cost less 
than $75,000 per contract shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Association and specified in the Operational Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or less, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  11
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiary Communities in carrying out Subprojects under 
Part A.1 of the Project may be procured in accordance with commercial practices 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by November 15 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on 
the matter. 
2.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
by not later than April 1, 2000, establish and thereafter maintain, 
throughout the duration of the Project, a Poverty Monitoring Team within MODP to be 
staffed at all times with not less than three (3) national experts with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
prepare a draft annual work program and training program to be carried 
out by the PMT and submit the said programs to the Association not later than 
September 30 of each year for its review and comments; and  
(c)
finalize the said work and training programs by taking duly into account 
the comments made by the Association; and thereafter promptly implement them as agreed 
upon with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall:  
(a)
periodically review and assess with the Association, the adequacy of the 
guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual with a view to gauging 
the effectiveness and impact of the said guidelines and procedures on the selection 
and implementation of Subprojects; and 
(b)
revise the Operational Manual as required to adapt LFCD’s operating 
guidelines and procedures to the realities faced on the ground; and 
(c)
by September 30, of each year, submit to the Association for its review 
and comments the draft revised Operational Manual referred to in paragraph (b) above.
4.
(a)
Not later than September 30, 2001, or such other date as the Borrower and 
Page  13
the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a 
mid-term review (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).  Such Midterm Review 
shall cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report including inter alia 
the results of the beneficiary assessments referred to under Part B.1 of the Project, 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of 
the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association 
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement 
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
5.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of this Agreement, no Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless LFCD shall have 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines 
set forth in the Operational Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified in more detail in the Operational Manual, which shall include the 
following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for health, education and vocational training, 
water supply and sanitation; agricultural production (markets, storage facilities, and 
conservation plants); natural resource management, infrastructure and 
revenue-generating traditional and non traditional activities;
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary Community duly 
represented by a Community Subproject Committee;
(c)
the Subproject shall be environmentally, economically, financially and 
technically viable in accordance with the standards specified in the Operational 
Manual;
(d)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary shall 
provide not less than 10 % of the estimated costs of the Subproject in the form of 
cash, materials, labor or other; and
(e)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental 
protection. 
6.
Terms and Conditions of Grants
In financing Subprojects, LFCD shall enter into a Financing Agreement with the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions which shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis and, unless otherwise agreed with the 
Association, not to exceed the equivalent of $75,000 per Grant;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Operational Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of LFCD to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, 
if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
Page  14
documents;
(e)
the right of LFCD to obtain all information as LFCD or the Association 
shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and financial 
conditions of the Subproject; and
(f)
the right of LFCD to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon the failure by the Beneficiary 
to perform any of its obligations under the Financing Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Page  15
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1.
A practical and appropriate methodology adopted for community needs assessments 
and participatory planning process, and for appraisal, implementation and maintenance 
for community demand-driven projects, with a view to achieving LFCD’s goal of poverty 
reduction (indicated through a revised OM, beneficiary assessments and evaluation 
reports). 
Page  16
2.
Expected benefits to be generated by sub-project, have been assessed by gauging 
inter alia, the level of satisfaction from the users of facilities developed under the 
sub-project, the efficiency of operations and maintenance of said facilities, and 
poverty targeting (e.g. resources allocated to poor communities, types of investment 
with higher impact on the poor), and relevance of investment to community needs 
(indicated through post-completion evaluations of sub-projects, beneficiary 
assessments, household surveys, and evaluation reports). 
3.
Semi-annual reports on LFCD’s activities and operations submitted to the 
Association, no later than 45 days after the end of every six months. 
4.
A strategy, reflecting the lessons learnt, acceptable to the Association, 
adopted by June 30, 2002, to support community development, including an action plan 
for future of the LFCD. 
5.
The Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaires (CWIQ) piloted and its effectiveness 
and adequacy as a tool for poverty monitoring evaluated. 
6.
A strategy or an action plan, reflecting the lessons learnt, acceptable to the 
Association, adopted by September 30, 2002, to monitor poverty data and trends at the 
national level.
