Document of
The World Bank                      FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2687-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Wadi Rima II)
January 8, 1980
Thi doment km a resrice distibuti oW may be vmd by recienta only tih dpefom   of
their  al dutie  ts conents maY not oterwise be disclosed witot Worl   lk autboriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978                                June 1979
Currency Unit  -  Yemen Rial (YR1)                     YRI
$1   -  YRTis 4.50  1/                      4.50
YR1   -  $0.22                                0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB      =      Agricuxltural Credit Bank
ACF             Agricultural Credit Fund
CPO      =      Central Planning Organization
DCA      =      Development Credit Agreement
LDA      =      Local Development Association
YAR      =      Yemen Arab Republic
1/  No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are affected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (WADI RIMA II)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:           $5.5 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Project           The Fourth Tihama Development project seeks to accelerate
Description:    modernization of agriculture in the Wadi Rima alluvial basin
of the Tihama coastal plain, to protect agricultural lands in
the vicinity of unstabilized sands, to improve farm incomes
and the quality of rural life, and to improve knowledge of
the water resources in the Tihaina region. Availability of
water is the main constraint to agricultural development in
YAR; this project will improve the use of the Wadi Rima
flows. It will complement the development of Wadi Rima
initiated under the Second Tihama Development project, which
included agricultural extension, credit, rural roads and
village water supplies.
This project comprises: (i) restructuring of the wadi's
primitive spate diversion and irrigation system to improve
its efficiency, including construction of a diversion struc-
ture, a syphon and a supply canal, and rehabilitation of
badly eroded reaches of the existing canals; (ii) a pilot
program of sand stabilization to prevent deterioration
of cultivated lands bordering unstabilized sandy areas;
(iii) identifying social factors which constrain development
of rural life and developing a pilot program for improving
the quality of life of the rural population; (iv) project
management including technical assistance, staff housing and
maintenance equipment; and (v) a water resource study for the
Tihama region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
The principal beneficiaries of the improved irrigation system
would be about 2,500 farm families comprising about 15,000
people. Their farm income would increase between 20 and
150 percent depending upon the location of their lands in
perennial or non-perennial irrigation areas. In addition,
the income of about 1,100 landless workers' families would
also increase by about $130 equivalent. Of the 3,600
families who would benefit from the project, some 500 farm
families and 700 landless workers' families are estimated to
have incomes presently below the relative poverty level of
$193 equivalent. The rest of the project area's population,
totalling about 23,000, would benefit from the sand stabili-
zation program and the rural improvement extension service of
the project. The only risks to the project arise from the
possibility of the farmers not adopting the changed cropping
pattern or a resurgence of disputes among   farmers about
irrigation supplies. The risk of the farmers not adopting
the changed cropping pattern is small, as the proposed crops
are already being grown in the well irrigated areas of the
wadi. Moreover, the farmers are also aware of the impact on
farm income of the proposed crops. The risk of water dis-
putes will be minimized by the transfer of the overall
control of water distribution from the local sheiks to the
Tihama Development Authority (TDA). TDA would operate the
irrigation system taking into account the recommendations of
a consultant study, to be undertaken under the project, so as
to ensure an equitable distribution of the wadi's water in
keeping with the water rights of its inhabitants. Such a
system of distribution control by TDA is already working
successfully in the adjoining Wadi Zabid, developed under the
First Tihama Development project.



- iii -
Estimated Cost
and Financing:                                                         i/a
Fnning--
Cost                 Kingdom of  Other   Govern-
Local Foreign Total    IDA Netherlands External  ment
-----$ Million-----    -------      $ Million------------
Project Management
Consultants for Final
Design and Supervi-
sion of Construction    -        0.6    0.6       -       0.7             -
Other Costs /b           0.3      0.8    1.1      0.9       -        -         0.6
Irrigation Works
Diversion Weir,
Syphon and Direct
Off-takes               1.4      2.4    3.8      3.0       -        -         2.4
Canals and Con-
struction and
Rehabilitation          2.4      3.7    6.1       -        -       4.6        4.1
Project Staff Housing   0.2       0.3    0.5      0.4       -        -         0.3
Sand Stabilization       0.9      0.7    1.6       -        -       0.9        1.6
Maintenance Equipment    -        0.8    0.8      0.9       -        -          -
Tihama Water Resource
Study                   0.1      0.3    0.4      0.3       -        -         0.1
Contingencies
Physical                 0.5      0.8    1.3
Price                    3.3      1.3    4.6
Total                    9.1    11.7   20.8       5.5      0.7      5.5        9.1
/a   Includes physical and price contingencies.
lb   Includes rural improvement extension work.
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY            1980   1981   1982    1983   1984
…----------…$ Million-------… =
Annual           0.1    0.8    2.0      1.9    0.7
Cumulative       0.1    0.9    2.9      4.8    5.5
Economic Rate of Return:        17 percent
Estimated Completion Date:    June 1984
Appraisal Report:               Report No. 2613-YAR, dated December 13, 1979,
Regional Projects Department, EMENA.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A FOURTH TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WADI RIMA II)
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of US$5.5 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, to
the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a Fourth Tihama Development
project in Wadi Rima. The Government of YAR has requested the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development to participate in financing the project with IDA.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands is financing design and supervision consultants
equivalent to $0.7 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. Some data on recent
developments in the economy were obtained in November 1979. A further
updating economic mission is expected to visit YAR in early 1980. Country
data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.         Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new republican government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization (CPO),
modern budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable
level of working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration.
Tribal fragmentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past,
is gradually being overcome. Central government control has been spreading
throughout the country and continues to do so.
4.         Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors. In 1973, the government, with the help of a Planning Assistance
Team in CPO financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, launched a Three-Year
Development Program (1973/74-1975/76) which subsequently was implemented
1/   Part I is substantially the same as that of the President's Report for
the Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project which was considered
by the Executive Directors on September 4, 1979.



with support from foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the
physical infrastructure was expanded and communication links were built; first
attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of
its medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that net workers' remit-
tances rose from some $40 million in 1969/70 to over $1 billion in 1977/78.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows, YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70, reaching a level of about $580 in 1977/78.
While these developments, together with fast-growing government expenditures
for both investment projects and public services, have greatly alleviated
YAR's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural underemployment, they
have created new ones which require urgent attention in the future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAP's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 38 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector, largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This obviously places limitations
on the absorptive capacity of the public administration.
7.        Another major issue the government faces is to assure the rational
allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During the past, when
funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely lacking, the authori-
ties found it relatively easy to select high-priority projects such as estab-
lishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing modern education,
building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories. With the rapid
growth in development spending, however, the range of choices is increasing
very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of individual projects
will not always be as obvious as in the past.
8.        A third issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases--and
there is visible evidence of fast-growing numbers of public buildings, roads,
urban facilities, factories, power stations and irrigation schemes--the need
for adequate maintenance of these facilities becomes more and more pressing.



Introducing adequate maintenance programs and establishing repair facilities
for machinery and equipment are therefore urgently required if past and
future investments are not to be wasted.
9.        These new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements in
development, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact that YAR
continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country. Produc-
tivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which employs
about three-fourths of the resident labor force, reflecting the very limited
investment in physical capital made so far, as well as the predominance of
traditional production techniques. Nine out of ten adults are illiterate and
only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary school.  Over 90 percent of the population resides in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation, schools,
electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical con-
straints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral deposits have been
discovered so far.
Government Obiectives
10.       The government is addressing these issues, as reflected in its
development objectives outlined in the first Five-Year Development Plan for
the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on the achievements of the Three-Year
Program (para. 4), the new Plan endeavors to further develop the country's
human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical infrastructure; to
raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors; and to improve the
standards of living of the people, giving priority to their basic needs for
food, health services, education, water supply and other community services.
To achieve its objectives, the government has launched an impressive invest-
ment and manpower training program, in close cooperation with foreign donors
of capital and technical assistance.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage
an increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76
to $1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50
percent. The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is
to be $3.5 billion.  Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and
population (it represents an annual amount of about $150 per capita), because
of the steep increase in investment proposed by the Plan, it is important that
the technical feasibility and economic viability of projects be studied before
they are undertaken. In this context, the government has asked the Bank to
assist the CPO in a review of investment priorities in sectors in which IDA is
involved so as to help channel resources into the most desirable areas. The
results of the review would be utilized by CPO in the preparation of the
Second Five-Year Plan, FY82-86. Some of this work is now underway.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, in which IDA and



the Kuwait Fund are participating, which is easing congestion in Hodeida and
will improve facilities in Mocha. The project is designed to meet YAR's
requirements for port capacity up to 1985. Encouraging results are also being
achieved in education and manpower training. Enrollment in primary and
secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs in technical and vocational
training have been started. The University of Sana'a, established in 1970,
now has some 3,000 students, many enrolled in technical disciplines. A large
number of Yemeni students (about 2,300) also receive training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base, thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 11 percent a year between 1969/70 and 1977/78.
Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflecting the rapid
expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government services, of transporta-
tion and finance. There was also a rapid increase of modern cash crops as
farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables, fruits and poultry.
Subsistence agriculture, still the most important economic sector in YAR, grew
at a much slower pace.
15.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors.  Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan, the government
increased its development spending from YRls 58 million ($13 million) in
1972/73 to YRls 891 million ($198 million) in 1977/78.
16.       The short period since 1970 has witnessed marked changes in the
structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern agriculture, trade, trans-
port and government services in GDP have all increased while that of subsis-
tence agriculture declined from over 40 percent in 1969/70 to less than one
third in 1977/78. Even so, YAR's economy is still very much underdeveloped.
The contribution of cash farming and industry (including construction) to GDP
is still less than that of subsistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
17.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the



- 5 -
fast-growing investment level. In 1977/78, gross national savings reached
the equivalent of 29 percent of GNP compared with only 7 percent in 1972/73.
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, the high savings rate was perhaps more accidental than
deliberate. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes,
together with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning
from Saudi Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent
which may not be perpetuated in future years. The financial mechanism to
channel these savings for development also remains inadequate and developments
will be gradual.
18.        Most of YAR's national savings are generated by the private sector.
The national accounts suggest that in 1977/78 total private savings were about
YRls 3.5 billion ($790 million) or the equivalent of 24 percent of GNP. It
can be assumed that a large part of these savings originated from workers'
remittances, which are a major source of money incomes in YAR. Recipients of
those remittances often hesitate to spend them on consumption items, partly
as an insurance against future income fluctuations and partly to save up
for investments in housing, agricultural equipment, etc. Savings are thus
generated throughout the country, and their ownership is widely distributed
among different population groups. Large amounts of savings are also being
generated in the trading sector (most of which is in private hands), in some
areas of agriculture (e.g., fruits and vegetables), in real estate and, to a
lesser extent, in the new manufacturing sector.
19.        Public sector savings were negative until 1975/76, reflecting a
rather narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that year). However, in the
following two years tax revenue more than trebled--due largely to a surge in
imports and accordingly increases in import duties. As a result, the current
budget yielded a surplus of YRls 715 million ($159 million), in 1977/78.
20.        Nonetheless, government expenditures both for recurrent and capital
purposes, are likely to grow rapidly in future years to cover the needs of
expanded education and health services as well as for more effective mainte-
nance programs. It will also be necessary to improve the remuneration of
civil servants to retain qualified staff in the public administration and to
provide adequate incentives for new recruitment.
21.        The expected growth in current government spending calls for con-
tinued efforts in mobilizing additional revenues. Emphasis will have to be
given to improving the collection of existing taxes, especially import duties
which are yielding rapidly growing receipts as the import volume expands
further. A thorough review of the present structure of import tariffs would
be desirable in order to maximize the revenue impact of such duties. Other
promising sources of additional revenue would be excise duties, sales and
turnover taxes. There is also much scope for direct taxation of business
incomes. However, the administrative and political obstacles against broaden-
ing the tax base are formidable, and in the meantime, generous foreign aid is
easing the burden on the current budget and finances a large part of the gov-
ernment's capital expenditures (see paragraphs 25-27).



22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of
workers' remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
23.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. During 1973/74-1977/78 these exports averaged $13 million a year, or
the equivalent of less than 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of agricultural
origin, with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major commodities.
Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $120 million in 1972/73 to
$906 million in 1977/78. This upsurge in import demand reflects the rapidly
rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached $899 million in 1977/78, about eight times as large as in
1972/73. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. In recent years net
earnings from services have grown even faster than the trade deficit. As
a result, the balance on current account, which was in deficit until 1974/75,
changed to a surplus which reached $240 million in 1977/78.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of all assis-
tance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can be
estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came to about $900 million by the
end of FY1977/78. The principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States,
IDA, the USSR, China, Germany and the USA.
26.       More than half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, budget
support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program and a
number of bilateral donors. A large part of official grants has been made
available in the form of technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of
skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority and will be needed
by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received size-
able amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on these loans have
increased in recent years, reaching $68 million in 1977/78. More than three



quarters of all official loans and credits have been committed for the financ-
ing of specific projects with the main emphasis on roads; agriculture, includ-
ing irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent. Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1978 was estimated
at $693 million, of which $363 million was disbursed. The major creditors were
IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait Fund. 1/ IDA credits
accounted for $111 million or about 16 percent of the total debt reported.
Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service payments
amounted to $8 million for 1977/78, equivalent to less than one percent of
gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances). Although
service payments are expected to rise in the next few years, the burden of
such payments would continue to remain small in relation to YAR's exchange
earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign reserves.  At the
end of June 1978 they reached $1,302 million or the equivalent of more than
one year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a rela-
tively high level of foreign aid, and last but not least the country's limited
absorptive capacity. YAR's imports are still at a low level (about $160 per
capita in 1977/78) and are likely to grow rapidly in future years. It should
be pointed out in this context that YAR's official reserves are not assets
earned by the State--as in the case of most oil-exporting countries--but
represent largely the counterpart of unspent private incomes which could be
drawn down as import levels rise. Workers' remittances and capital flows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change
substantially within a relatively short time. YAR's present comfortable
reserve position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded
quickly if recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The
reserve position also has to be viewed in the context of the country's
dependence on agriculture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather.
A repetition of the severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would
necessitate the import of foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume,
adding substantially to the country's foreign exchange requirements.
1/   The Federal Republic of Germany recently converted all its aid to YAR to
grants.



- 8 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS 1/
30.       The proposed credit would be the twenty-second 2/ to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $191.3 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, as of November 30, 1979. The World Bank strategy in YAR has
been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to
develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture,
and to support the government in its desire to meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA has extended three credits
for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million credit for a port develop-
ment project, four credits for water supply and sewerage totalling $36.4
million, and a $10.0 million credit for power distribution. To assist in the
development of education, IDA has extended three credits for a total of $29
million, in support of primary and secondary teacher training, and secondary
and vocational education. To develop rural infrastructure and to support
production and distribution in agriculture and agro-industry, IDA has made
seven credits for a total of $66.9 million. To develop industry, IDA extended
a $2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to
stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model
for future industrial development; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4 million by
the International Finance Corporation (IFC's first activity in YAR) was
approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
31.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions. World
Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen Yemeni insti-
tutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training of local staff
and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for
education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial components for
technical assistance towards institution building. Two particularly important
examples of the World Bank's support for institution building have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In
CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait
Fund have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bank supplies the ser-
vices of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing
agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the Second Tihama project) and
1/   Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the Ibb
and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage project which was considered by the
Executive Directors on September 4, 1979.
2/   Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR, and the $7.0 million credit for textile rehabili-
tation, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was cancelled at the government's
request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



UNDP. The Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which carries out agricul-
tural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part of this
institutional support.
32.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development,
and education, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation.  A second rural development
project in the Southern Uplands and a fisheries project have been appraised;
a technical assistance project for the Central Planning Organization, a
development finance project, and an education project, are in the preparation
stage. Future projects are expected to include regional electrification,
industry, urban development, health, and further rural development activities,
as well as assistance in the energy sector.
33.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-developed
countries and requires special assistance through financing of a large part
of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As in the
past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher
than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to cooperate
closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulat-
ing co-financing. IDA-supported projects (excluding the textiles project), for
which credits amounting to a total of $178.8 million were made, have led to
about $245 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid donors. In addi-
tion, co-financing of about $6 million is expected to be provided for this
project.
PART III - SECTOR AND SUB-SECTOR
General Setting
34.       Until the late 1960s, YAR's agriculture was largely for subsistence,
isolated from the monetized economy and technological progress. Yet this
traditional system was also characterized by a complex system of division of
labor, by a penetrating network of traditional markets, and sophisticated
production techniques such as water diversion and terracing. It is estimated
that in the 1960s, agriculture contributed up to 80 percent of the GDP and
employed about 80-90 percent of the economically active population. The
meagre endowment in land, scant rainfall, primitive technology and the absence
of alternative economic opportunities combined to create an environment of
pervasive rural poverty and extensive malnutrition. Although the agricultural
constraints remain, dramatic changes have begun to take in place in YAR's
economy in recent years, which have not only reduced the prominence of agri-
culture but have also accentuated the necessity for its development. The
economic boom in neighboring oil producing countries since 1973 has led to a



- 10 -
massive emigration of Yemeni workers, reaching about 700,000 or 38 percent of
the labor force in 1979. Their remittances stimulated the economy as a whole:
with the rapid growth of other sectors the share of agriculture in GDP and in
employment declined, but a strong impetus for agricultural growth was also
provided. The sharply increased incomes generated increases in demand for
both traditional staples and high value produce such as meat, fruits and
vegetables, while availability of capital and shortage of labor induced
changes in resource utilization.
Recent Performance
35.       During the eight years (1970-77) for which national accounts are
available, it is estimated that the share of agriculture fell approximately
from 53 to 44 percent of total GDP in current prices. Agricultural GDP at
constant market prices grew about five percent annually during the FY69 to 77
period, compared with about 7.7 percent for the economy as a whole. Although
it appears that part of this increase is due to climatic conditions, the
effect of a shift in production away from subsistence crops to cash crops,
such as fruits and vegetables, has been particularly important. Thus between
1971/72 to 1977/78, while the area under fruits and vegetables rose by about
50 percent, the area under cereals declined by about 17 percent. There has
also been increasing use of improved production techniques, modern inputs and
equipment.
36.       Despite these achievements, however, there has been an increasing
dependence on agricultural imports, especially food. The latter rose in value
from YRls 91 million in 1971/72 to YRls 1,590 million in 1977/78. Although
financing of these imports has not been a constraint for YAR, this level of
dependence, representing in 1977/78 about 40 percent of total domestic food
consumption, has become a cause for concern. This situation is aggravated by
the decline in exports, which are largely from the agricultural sector, from
about YRls 51 million in 1973/74 to about YRls 31 million in 1977/78, result-
ing largely from the fall in cotton production which suffered from the increase
in agricultural wages.
Major Issues and Constraints to Growth
37.       The main issues in Yemeni agriculture are how to improve efficiency
of production sufficiently and rapidly enough to meet the rising levels and
changing pattern of consumption, and to make it worthwhile for farmers to stay
on the land. Unlike most other developing countries, YAR has the opportunity
of raising incomes of the poorest groups of its population through non-
agricultural employment, both at home and abroad. Therefore, investment
whose main purpose is to raise incomes of the poorest groups is not as over-
riding a need as in other countries. Strategy for agricultural development
accordingly should and does concentrate on improvements in productivity and
institution building. The transformation of agriculture is subject to severe
constraints, particularly scarcity of arable land and shortage of water. Only
about 1.5 million ha of land, or 8 percent of the country, is regularly cul-
tivated, mostly with the scant rainfall of two short rainy seasons per year.
Of this, about 15 percent is irrigated by either the seasonal flow of wadis,



- 11 -
or water drawn from wells, springs and streams. Other constraints affecting
growth of the sector are: (a) widespread sharecropping arrangements under
which tenants bear most of the costs for raising productivity but have to
share the benefits with landowners; (b) lack of complementary infrastructure;
(c) the restricted use of farm inputs and equipment; (d) the shortage of
skilled managerial and technical manpower; and (e) shortage of agricultural
labor leading to high production costs, making domestic production uncompeti-
tive with imports. Nevertheless, growth prospects are promising, particularly
in areas with relatively high rainfall or potential for irrigation, for
example, the Southern Uplands and Tihama regions respectively.
Tenancy Arrangements
38.       Government strategy gives priority to addressing these constraints.
Emphasis in the investment program is in building basic infrastructure and in
training personnel. The government is undertaking a nationwide study of
tenancy arrangements, to recommend an equitable system consistent with giving
farmers incentive to raise productivity. Pending completion of this study,
which is being financed under Credit 805-YAR, a religious edict has been
issued requiring landowners to share in the costs of production in proportion
to their share in output. The government has undertaken, under the Second and
Third Tihama Development projects, to consult with the Association in the
light of the study's recommendations, on measures most appropriate to ensure
a more equitable cost and crop sharing system, and to implement such measures
through suitable legislative or governmental action. Measures further to
improve the relative income and economic position of tenants in Wadi Rima will
be undertaken by June 30, 1982, or such other date as the government and the
Association shall agree (Section 4.04, DCA). The shortage of labor is leading
to increasing use of tractors and mechanization, although less effectively
than is desirable.
Water Resources
39.       The government recognizes the need to obtain better information
about the country's water resources, and to control their exploitation, which
in some areas is now too rapid. The proposed credit would finance the first
phase of a study of the water resource potential of the Tihama region: the
subsequent, more detailed exploration phase of this study, whose scope and
costs will be determined by the first phase, is likely to be financed from a
future IDA credit. The government intends to introduce measures to control
the use of water resources (Section 4.09, DCA).
Rural Income and Living Conditions
40.       Despite the greatly increased incomes from workers' remittances
throughout rural Yemen, conditions of life remain exceedingly poor, as in
the main do incomes derived from agriculture. Housing conditions generally
are unsatisfactory. Nutrition, although recently improving, is inadequate,
while in many areas clean water is unavailable and health services non-
existent. Infant and child mortality is very high, and intestinal and other
diseases are widespread. In 1976, agricultural GDP per capita was only 80
percent of the minimum subsistence requirement, so the income from outside is



- 12 -
essential to the economy of most parts of rural Yemen. Probably no more than
10 percent of the rural adult male population is literate. Primary education
is generally poor, and in many areas not available. Many villages are acces-
sible only through animal transport, although in recent years society has been
considerably changed by construction of feeder roads, usable by four-wheel
drive vehicles connecting villages to YAR's recently completed primary road
system. (These feeder roads have mainly been constructed by Local Development
Associations, see paragraph 41 below.) Cooking and heating are dependent on
expensive and inadequate supplies of firewood, causing deforestation.
Local Development Associations
41.        In an effort to improve living conditions, Local Development Asso-
ciations (LDAs) have been organized in rural areas by rural inhabitants on
their own initiative. Over 150 LDAs are active throughout the country,
constructing community facilities, such as feeder roads, village water supply
systems, schools, and health clinics. The LDAs receive considerable local
support, both financially and in the participation of people living in the
areas they represent. The physical accomplishments of many LDAs over the past
three years in particular are impressive. The government wishes to lend
support to this local initiative and wants the LDA system to be the main
instrument of rural development. The Bank is reviewing with the government
how the LDAs can appropriately be assisted through future rural development
lending operations.
Government Strategy
42.        In the first Five-Year Development Plan 1976/77-1980/81, the govern-
ment emphasizes the building of basic agricultural institutions, such as for
extension, research and credit, collecting basic data, carrying out resource
surveys and investment feasibility studies, and investing in projects for
agricultural production. The Plan allocated YRls 1.44 billion ($320 million),
or about 25 percent of total public investment for public investment in agri-
culture. Irrigated agriculture and areas with adequate rainfall are assigned
high priority among public and private sector investments. One third of the
total public investment in agriculture is for the Tihama region. The govern-
ment relies considerably on external financial and technical assistance:
external financing is expected to cover about YRls 1 billion or 40 percent
of agricultural investment, while the government would provide about 20 per-
cent. External assistance is also intended to overcome major institutional
constraints by supplying substantial technical assistance, until Yemeni staff
have acquired the necessary expertise and experience to implement the projects
and to operate the completed facilities; this is not expected for some years
to come.
Tihama Plain
43.       The Tihama Plain holds particular importance in the context of this
agricultural development strategy. Located along the Red Sea, the plain is
from 30 km to 60 km wide and approximately 400 km long. Despite a very hot



- 13 -
and rainless climate, it has considerable agricultural potential, by virtue of
its location, accessibility, relatively abundant land, reasonably good soils,
surface and groundwater irrigation, and moderately diversified production.
Yet, at present, it is one of the less developed parts of the country, although
limited areas are under high value cash crops. The area is crossed by seven
major wadis, that is, river beds in which water flows following rain in the
mountainous catchment areas, but which are dry or nearly dry at other times of
the year. For many centuries, irrigation has been practiced by diverting
water during the wet season from the wadi with low dikes of rubble and brush-
wood. The water is distributed by earthen canals. During floods or periods
of sustained flows, the dikes are destroyed and water escapes to the sea. By
constructing more permanent structures, these systems can be made considerably
more efficient, giving farmers a more reliable and better controlled supply of
water.
44.        In 1973, the government established the Tihama Development Authority
(TDA) to be responsible for implementing, operating and maintaining all devel-
opment projects in the region. It has a board of nine directors appointed by
the government. The chairman of the board, who is also the director general,
is assisted by expatriate management, financial advisors and other technical
staff. TDA has acquired considerable experience through implementation of the
successful Wadi Zabid irrigation scheme, substantially completed, which is the
first such public scheme in YAR, financed under credits 376-YAR and 376-1-YAR
(First Tihama Development project). Under this project, agricultural exten-
sion, applied research and credit were introduced into the country. TDA is
now extending its activities to Wadi Mawr, the largest of the Tihama wadis
(Third Tihama project), and to Wadi Rima (Second Tihama, Credit 805, and
Fourth Tihama projects).
Previous IDA Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
45.        The proposed project would be the seventh IDA-financed project in
agriculture and the fourth in the Tihama. IDA strategy in assisting agricul-
tural development has been in line with government priorities of institution
building and of initiating efforts to modernize agriculture in areas with
known potential, such as the Tihama and the Southern Uplands. IDA's involve-
ment in this sector commenced in 1973 with the First Tihama Development
project for development of Wadi Zabid (Cr. 376) co-financed with the Kuwait
Fund, which is now nearing completion. This project faced severe cost over-
runs and supplementary financing was provided by both financiers (Cr. 376-1).
This project was followed by five additional agricultural and agro-industrial
projects: the Southern Uplands Rural Development project (Cr. 545), co-
financed by the Abu Dhabi Fund, which is progressing satisfactorily after
early delays; the Grain Storage and Processing project (Cr. 636), co-financed
by the Saudi Fund, which includes a nutrition study and a component for
fortification of flour, and is progressing well; the Livestock Credit and
Processing project (Cr. 662), co-financed with the Kuwait Fund, the Nether-
lands, and the United Kingdom, is progressing reasonably satisfactorily on a
modified basis, after overcoming startup difficulties; the Second Tihama
Development project (Cr. 805), forerunner to this project in Wadi Rima,



- 14 -
approved in 1978, co-financed by the Kuwait Fund, which provides credit,
extension, rural roads and water supply; and finally the Third Tihama Develop-
ment project (Cr. 880) for agricultural and irrigation development of Wadi
Mawr, approved in March 1979, co-financed by the Kuwait Fund, the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
and the EEC Special Action Fund. In addition, IDA is the Executing Agency for
a UNDP project which provides agricultural research and institutional support
to the Ministry of Agriculture; through the Second Tihama Development credit,
IDA is assisting the government in financing this project, as is the European
Economic Community. The project is the second phase of two previous UNDP
projects: an Institutional Support Project executed by the Bank, to assist in
developing the Ministry of Agriculture, and an Agricultural Research Project
which had been executed by FAO, to develop an agricultural research capability
in YAR.
46.       All the above projects, including those financed by UNDP, have
suffered from cost overruns owing to inflation, and from a shortage of trained
counterpart staff. The counterpart shortage should ease to some extent in the
1980s as Yemeni graduate students, now studying abroad, start to return. How-
ever, the low salaries in government service relative to the private sector
are not conducive to recruitment and retention of staff. The government has
recruited overseas staff to fill counterpart staff vacancies and permits over-
seas recruitment of technicians, who are also in short supply.
47.       Short and medium-term agricultural credit is provided in the Wadi
Rima project area by the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), under the Second
Tihama Development project. YAR's first agricultural credit institution,
the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), which was set up as a department of the
Central Bank under the First Tihama Development project and which served as a
channel for agricultural credit for other IDA-sponsored projects, was merged
into ACB earlier this year. ACB follows essentially the same lending proce-
dures as ACF, which are generally acceptable. These procedures do, however,
require borrowers to provide land as collateral, save for short-term loans up
to YRls 10,000, which can be secured by co-signatories or movable assets.
With the increasing need for mechanization because of the shortage of labor,
there is a need to relax collateral requirements and to increase the ceiling
on loans requiring co-signatories, so that tenant and smaller farmers can
obtain loans for mechanization. Consequently, and through this project, ACB
has agreed to accept machinery financed under a loan as collateral, and the
ceiling on co-signature loans will be raised to YRls 20,000 or $4,500 (Section
4.07, DCA).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
48.       The Fourth Tihama Development project (Wadi Rima II) is complementary
to the Second Tihama Development project, for which a credit was approved in
April 1978, inter alia to establish agricultural extension, credit, plant



- 15 -
protection and veterinary services in Wadi Rima and to construct gravel access
roads and water supply installations for its rural population. The restruc-
turing of the wadi's irrigation system was not included in that project, as
additional work was required to determine a technically adequate and finan-
cially viable solution. The decision to proceed with the first stage develop-
ment of Wadi Rima, while carrying out further studies of the irrigation works,
will bring quicker benefits than if these components had been postponed. The
present project is based on feasibility studies completed on behalf of TDA by
consultants, financed by the Kingdom of the Netherlands, for the improvement
of the wadi's irrigation system, and by a British Government technical assis-
tance team for the pilot sand stabilization program. The project was appraised
in February 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from November
26 to November 29, 1979. The YAR delegation was led by H.E. Abdul Wahab
Mahmoud, Minister of Agriculture. A report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic,
Staff Appraisal Report, Tihama Development Project IV (Wadi Rima II)" (No.
2613-YAR) dated December 13, 1979, is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the Credit and the Project are
summarized in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the
project area is attached.
Project Objectives
49.       The project seeks:  (i) to increase agricultural production and farm
income in the Wadi Rima alluvial plain through optimal use of the wadi flows
in conjunction with the agricultural services provided under the second
Tihama development project; (ii) to initiate a pilot experimental program to
prevent deterioration of cultivated lands bordering the sand dunes; (iii) to
develop a pilot program for improvement of rural life in the Tihama, working
closely with the LDAs; and (iv) to improve knowledge of the water resources of
the Tihama region.
Project Description
50.       The project comprises:  (i) restructuring the wadi's irrigation
system; (ii) a pilot sand stabilization program, incorporating plantation
belts covering an area of about 800 ha; (iii) developing and testing a pilot
program for improvement of rural life; (iv) project management including
technical assistance, staff housing and maintenance equipment; (v) and a water
resource study for the Tihama region.
51.       Irrigation.  Optimum utilization of available surface water is
necessary to maximize the benefits from the agricultural extension, credit
and research program being implemented in the wadi under the first Wadi Rima
project. Permanent diversion structures and efficiently operating canals are
needed for optimal use of wadi flows. The following works will be constructed
to this end: (i) a permanent diversion weir and canal regulator where the
wadi enters the plain; (ii) a syphon to connect the south bank irrigation
system to the north bank supply canal; and (iii) three direct off-take struc-
tures and a south bank supply canal. Existing primary and secondary canals
will also be improved (see Map).



- 16 -
52.       Sand Stabilization.  Spreading sand dunes threaten farm land in the
coastal belt of the Tihama. The government wishes to start a pilot sand sta-
bilization project in Wadi Rima to demonstrate its practicability and value,
and to train staff who can continue and expand the work. The sand stabiliza-
tion program, incorporating shelter belt plantations of about 800 ha, would
run for four years under the technical guidance of a specialist to be recruited
for the task. The project will provide for the services of an arid zone
forestry specialist, 24 man-months of overseas training for Yemeni foresters,
a fenced nursery, an office-cum-store, two tubewells, transport and watering
equipment and operational expenses.
53.        Improvement of Rural Life.  As described in paragraph 40 above, the
general standard of living in rural Yemen is extremely low. Poor education,
health, nutrition, etc. constrain development and contribute to low produc-
tivity. TDA's activities in rural development, other than those directly
aimed at increasing agricultural production, have been limited to installing
potable water supplies and road construction. This project would identify
ways to improve the quality of life in rural areas. A specialist and counter-
part would develop and implement a pilot program of activities, after assessing
the people's needs, probably working closely with the LDAs. Special attention
will be given to possibilities for a home economics extension program, includ-
ing subjects like health, education, nutrition, hygiene, food storage and
processing, care of domestic animals, etc. The project would provide for the
services of the specialist, an audio-visual mobile unit and photographic and
transport equipment and materials. The draft proposal for the pilot program
will be prepared by September 30, 1981, and reviewed with IDA prior to imple-
mentation (Section 3.05, DCA).
54.       Water Resources.  Water availability is the major limit on agricul-
tural development in the Tihama. An accurate assessment of potential water
resources is therefore essential to determine the extent of possible agricul-
tural development. Some information is already available from development
studies for the different wadis, but it is insufficient to establish an
overall picture. The government, therefore, proposes to employ a firm of
consultants to review and to update the work already done, to extend the
existing network of meteorological, rain gauge, and stream gauging stations to
provide a basis for assessing the surface water potential and seepage losses,
and to identify the need and scope of geophysical surveys, site drilling,
testing and observational programs required to assess the Tihama's acquifer
potential. The consultants will assist TDA in selecting gauging sites,
procuring and installing equipment, and in training. For this purpose, the
IDA credit will finance thirty man-months of consultancy services, and equip-
ment for the meteorological and gauging stations.
55.       Project Management and Technical Assistance.  The Dutch firm, DHV
Consulting Engineers, which prepared the final feasibility study for the
project, has been engaged to assist TDA in the design, procurement and con-
struction surveillance of the works included in the project. Their services
are financed by the Netherlands Government. The project will also provide for



- 17 -
services of an arid zone forestry specialist (36 man-months), a water regula-
tion specialist (6 man-months), a rural development specialist (36 man-months)
and overseas training (24 man-months) of Yemeni foresters. Expatriate staff
will also be hired under the project to fill intermediate grade posts of
assistant engineers and field inspectors etc. until such time as Yemeni staff
are available to fill the posts.
56.       The water regulation specialist would study the water rights situa-
tion in Wadi Rima and recommend an equitable solution for the distribution of
the wadi's annual flows to the various canals of the system before March 31,
1981. The report would be discussed with IDA; TDA would then implement an
equitable system for water allocation based on the agreed recommendations
(Section 4.02, DCA).
57.       Necessary equipment for maintenance of the irrigation works, a
mobile workshop for repair of farm machinery, vehicles, and housing for
project consultants and other staff would be provided.
Project Implementation
58.       The project would be implemented over four years.  The civil works
and procurement of equipment would be completed by June 1983 while the sand
stabilization and the rural improvement programs would continue until June
1984. TDA, which is currently successfully executing the first three Tihama
development projects, would be responsible for implementing the project with
assistance of consultants and the other expatriate experts provided under this
and on-going projects. Three managerial posts have been provided in TDA to
head the engineering, agricultural and administrative directorates. The
project's engineering, agricultural and administrative staff would be attached
to these respective directorates. Because of the shortage of trained per-
sonnel in YAR, it would not be possible in the immediate future to fill all
managerial and technical posts for the project with experienced Yemeni per-
sonnel. Consequently, these positions would be filled, in the first instance,
by expatriate staff provided under the project as has occurred without diffi-
culty under the first Tihama development project, which will be completed by
the end of 1979. Government policy is to use expatriate staff where suitable
Yemenis are not available (see paras. 44 and 46): it is expected that expa-
triates will be needed in most of these posts for at least four years. All
senior poscs which could not be filled by Yemeni staff of requisite experience
would be filled by June 30, 1980, with staff whose qualifications and terms
and conditions of appointment would be satisfactory to the government and IDA
(Section 3.03, DCA).
Project Costs and Financing
59.       The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
$20.8 million, of which $11.7 million or 56 percent is foreign exchange.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent on equipment and
civil works. Price contingencies allow for annual increases of 8 percent
in foreign exchange costs and for annual increases for 1979 through 1984 of



- 18 -
30 percent, 26 percent, 22 percent and 20 percent on local costs. The high
local contingency rate reflects the recent high inflation in YAR, particularly
in construction costs and wages, generated by the steep rise in remittances
from Yemenis working abroad. There are indications that price increases are
slowing down. Total capital cost attributable to the irrigation works is
estimated at $1,520 per ha, which compares favorably with similar irrigation
works on other projects in YAR and elsewhere. The proposed IDA credit of $5.5
million would finance the foreign exchange cost of project management ($0.9
million), including the rural improvement extension and project consultants
(other than the engineering consultants), the diversion works in the wadi
($3.0 million), housing for the project staff ($0.4 million), maintenance
equipment ($0.9 million), and the Tihama water resource study ($0.3 million).
Consultant costs are estimated at $6,700 per man-month, which includes salaries
and allowances, travel to and from YAR, and head office costs.  The Kingdom of
the Netherlands is financing the engineering consultants ($0.7 million). The
balance of the foreign exchange cost ($5.5 million) would be financed by other
external cofinancier(s). The government has asked the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, which has assisted in financing each of the earlier
Tihama projects and which has been involved in the discussions of the present
project, to join in co-financing. The government would finance the local
costs. The signing of a loan agreement between the government and the other
external source(s) of financing would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
6.01, DCA).
Recovery of Costs
60.       The recovery of the project irrigation development costs would
follow the principles established in cooperation with IDA under the previous
Tihama development projects. The policy is to recover 100 percent of annual
operation and maintenance costs and full capital cost of irrigation works over
20 years without interest, through Zakat, the existing religious tax. It has
been agreed, as under previous projects, to levy a surcharge on Zakat of an
additional 2 percent on production, payable by the landowners, in order to
achieve the specified level of recovery (Section 4.03, DCA). In Wadi Rima,
this charge, together with the yield of the Zakat on incremental production
due to the project, is expected to recover full annual operation and mainte-
nance costs and 100 percent of capital costs with no interest over slightly
less than 20 years. As TDA gains experience, builds up administrative capa-
bility and establishes working relationships with the irrigators, the govern-
ment intends to shift, over time, to a system of levying a flat charge per
hectare of land owned. The recovery system and the levels of surcharge will
be reviewed in consultation with the Association at intervals of not more than
five years, after completion of the irrigation works at present scheduled for
1983. The government will continue from time to time to discuss with IDA the
steps it is taking to prepare for introduction of an improved recovery system
in order to take into account such factors as the true economic value of
water, actual annual collection, landowners' ability to pay, and the require-
ments of future irrigation investment (Section 4.03, DCA). In the review
of cost sharing arrangements, attention will be given to methods of relating
charges to water use. However, complete volumetric charging will not be
practicable. First, during the spate season, when by far the largest part
of the annual supply of water passes through the irrigation system, it carries



- 19 -
too much silt for meters to operate satisfactorily. Second, the design of the
irrigation system (which mostly uses existing supply canals) does not give
each farmer a separate supply outlet. Many receive water after it has passed
through fields belonging to others, making the assessments of amounts received
by each imprecise. However, other appropriate schemes are under consideration.
Marketing and Prices
61.       In view of the rapid growth in demand for food, particularly fruits
and vegetables, the project's output would have a ready market. Except for
cotton (currently marketed through government channels), the entire project
output is expected to be consumed domestically. The marketable surplus would
be disposed of through the existing market network linking villages and urban
centers. The roads being constructed under the first Wadi Rima project would
improve the efficiency of this system. Farm-gate prices are expected to con-
tinue to be high in view of the high demand for all agricultural commodities
in YAR. Farmers in the Tihama enjoy the advantage, particularly for fruits
and vegetables, of a subtropical climate and proximity to Hodeidah, where
demand is high and supply scarce. Price forecasts for cotton and grains
in the world market are also favorable.
Procurement
62.       The civil works included in the IDA-financed components would cost
about $6.1 million. Of these, contracts for construction of staff housing,
being small in size ($0.7 million), would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding and would be constructed using government's local procure-
ment procedures which are competitive and acceptable. Contracts for irriga-
tion works ($5.4 million) and all of the IDA-financed equipment ($1.3 million)
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits"
except for contracts of less than $100,000 each, for items required for
immediate use, whose aggregate value would not exceed $400,000, which would be
procured through local competitive bidding. A 15 percent preference margin,
or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is less, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evaluation of bids under ICB.
Disbursement
63.       Disbursements under the IDA credit would be made on the basis of
55 percent of expenditure on civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for directly imported goods, 80 percent of local expenditures of imported
goods procured locally, 100 percent of local expenditures exfactory for
locally manufactured goods, and 100 percent of expenditures on experts and
training. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1984.
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
64.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 20 percent for the
irrigation component, the cost of which is $17.4 million or 86 percent of
total costs. The main quantified benefit of this component is the increased



- 20 -
annual agricultural production, estimated at $7.0 million, due to the improved
efficiency of the irrigation system, which increases water available, and
improves control of water use. This reduces crop losses, permits rational
allocation of water among crops, and allows introduction of higher value
crops. The project's other components are pilot programs in sand stabiliza-
tion and in rural development, whose costs are $2.5 million and $0.24 million
respectively, and the Tihama water resource study ($0.4 million). They
generate benefits whose values are difficult to quantify: the sand stabili-
zation program would reduce crop damage by blown sand and by long term dete-
rioration of soil quality; the rural development program would help teach
villagers ways to improve their health, nutrition, home food processing and
storage and living conditions generally. The water resource study will
provide a basis for planning the most economic exploitation of the water
available. The economic rate of return on the project as a whole, including
the cost of these components, is 17 percent. If the project is incorporated
with the first Wadi Rima project (Second Tihama Development) which had an
estimated rate of return of 30 percent, the combined rate of return would be
25 percent.
65.       The project has important implications for transforming the economic
structure of YAR and achieving balanced growth.  It is part of the government's
strategy to develop the Tihama plain, one of the least developed regions of
YAR, yet also one of the areas with the greatest agricultural potential. In
view of the limited natural resources available, particularly water, YAR's
agricultural development depends largely on areas either with adequate rainfall
or potential for irrigation, i.e., the Southern Uplands and the Tihama regions.
The need for such development has become particularly acute with the growing
dependence on food imports which comprise over 40 percent of national consump-
tion. Thus the project would contribute to the national objective of food
security.
66.       The project would intensify agricultural production in Wadi Rima
through provision of more reliable irrigation. It would generate 240,000
man-days of employment for project construction, equivalent to full-time
work for about 240 persons per year, as well as 57,000 man-days of annual
on-farm work, equivalent to full time work for about 230 persons. Unlike most
developing countries, there is full employment in YAR, but the incremental
labor requirement could be met by families in the project area. The improved
employment opportunities, coupled with the considerable increase in labor
productivity, would encourage people not to emigrate, and so make for a more
stable community.
Beneficiaries
67.       The project would improve the incomes and living conditions of about
3,600 families or 21,600 persons. The main beneficiaries are 2,500 farm
families comprising about 2,000 landowners and 500 tenants. Farm incomes
would increase on average by about 80 percent, although some farms receiving
perennial irrigation might more than double their incomes, while others
would increase by about 25-30 percent only. This is because there is not
sufficient water throughout the year, particularly in winter, to irrigate the



- 21 -
entire project area. The location of these farms receiving perennial irriga-
tion would depend on the study of water rights which would recommend an
equitable system of water distribution. All farm incomes would be more
reliable with improved control of water, and because the danger of damage by
large floods would be virtually eliminated. No farm incomes would be reduced
by the project. In addition, about 1,100 families of landless farm workers,
including about 6,600 persons, would benefit from additional employment,
increasing family incomes by about $130 annually, an average increase of over
50 percent of those families with no remittance income.
68.       Since there are no reliable data on the distribution of land owner-
ship and on income from remittances, it is not possible to determine the
proportion of benefits and costs accruing to population groups of different
income levels. A cadastral survey to be financed under this credit will yield
more reliable information on land ownership. As a rough approximation, about
500 out of the 2,500 farm families and about 700 out of 1,100 landless farm
laborers' families benefitting from the project may have incomes below the
relative poverty level of $193 (YRls 870). All farms are small to medium
size, the average being about 3 ha and virtually all under 10 ha, and as the
majority are owner-operated, the project would predominantly benefit small
farmers. On rented land, tenants follow the normal crop-sharing arrangements,
that is that tenants and landowners share crops equally, after deduction of
zakat. Thus, on rented land, tenants and landowners will share equally in the
benefits of the project. Traditionally, tenancy is in perpetuity.
69.       Despite the typical small size of holdings, several branches of one
family are reputed to own about 1,800 ha or 20 percent of the project area,
split into numerous, rented family farms. These holdings will account for
about 20 percent of project costs, and the owning families may realize up
to 10 percent of total quantified benefits. In addition to their increased
income, landowners would enjoy an increase in the value of their land. The
actual distribution of benefits between landowners and tenants will depend on
the details of the measures which the government has agreed to take to improve
the relative position of tenants, following the crop-sharing study (para. 38,
Section 4.04, DCA). The fact that the project will benefit rich as well as
poor is unavoidable, since a radical change in the land tenure system in YAR
cannot be contemplated at present; any such changes would be likely to bring
about renewed tension between central government and tribal communities, so
harming the present, carefully attained, political balance. On the other hand,
the majority of the project beneficiaries, who are poor even by YAR standards,
could not be helped at all without investment in developing agriculture, the
only significant resource with potential in Wadi Rima. The government recog-
nizes the problems posed by the land tenure situation and is taking the first
steps to tackle them, in cooperation with IDA. It took a major step forward
when in 1978 it required the additional cost recovery charge (para. 60) to be
paid by landowners; also it has recently arranged for a religious edict which
assisted tenants by obliging landowners to share the costs of modern inputs
(fertilizers, pesticides, improved seeds, etc.) in proportion to their crop
shares (para. 38). Under the Third Tihama Development project, a special
monitoring unit is to be created in TDA staffed with rural sociologists. This



- 22 -
unit will foc'19 on the income distribution impact of the projects, as part of
its socio-economic analysis of the development of the Tihaen.
Risks
70.       No special problems of a technical or managerial nature are expected
to arise in implementing this project, apart from the difficulty in obtaining
skilled administrative staff discussed in paragraph 58. The main risks
involved in achieving the economic benefits are the farmers' willingness to
introduce the high value crops which improved water supplies permit, and the
resurgence of disputes among irrigator groups. While the rate of return would
be negative if no changes were introduced to the cropping pattern, the area
under high value crops needs to rise to only 300 ha or 4 percent of the total
area, rather than the appraisal estimate of 900 ha and 11 percent, for the
rate of return to be 10 percent. Experience in Wadi Zabid, and on existing
well-irrigated areas in Wadi Rima, indicates farmers' readiness to change to
higher value crops when feasible. So as to minimize the likelihood of dis-
putes among riparians, the project works have been designed so that each
tribal group of farmers has a separate offtake from the main supply canals.
TDA would allocate water to each of these groups following an equitable
distribution system to be determined on the basis of the study of water rights
described in paragraph 56. Experience in Wadi Zabid, following the takeover
of water allocation by TDA on completion of the diversion weirs, indicates
that farmers appreciate benefits accruing from the project, and consequently
accept TDA's role in water distribution.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 8, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                           ANNEX I
Page I  of  5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN. ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDGICATORS DATA SPEET
YEME, ARB REUBLI  OF   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                  YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF               MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -Y
TOTAL             195.0                                                       SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       15.2                                   MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (05$)                       ..           ..      580.0           1532.5       209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)          7.0         17.0      41.0             838.1        83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         3.6          4.4        5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4             6.0        7.9             49.0        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            20.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         18.0         23.0       26.0              19.9        49.4       45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    239.0          287.0      329.0              99.0       252.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.3         44.1       45.0              45.6        43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                           54.0         53.2       52.0              51.4        53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.7          2.7        3.0              2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          1.8        1.9              3.0         2.4         2.7
lURBAN                                 ..          1.5        7.3              5.2         4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        50.0         49.0      49.0              43.7        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        29.0         26.0       19.0             13.5        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.5        3.5              3.2         2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..        ..                ..        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               ..        85.0       93.0              90.8        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     82.0         71.0       83.0             99.0         93.3       94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            65.0         62.0       58.3              63.6        52.1        54.3
OF WIIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        15.8/f    14.1               16.0        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        55.0         38.0       31.0             15.9        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0            43.0      47.0              53.8        49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..              ..        ..                ..       105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-         4.0        4.0              56.4        26.3        34.4
URBAN                                  ..        45.0       30.0              83.4        58.5        57.9
RURAL                                  *-         2.0         2.0             34.3        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..              59.1        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..              78.2        65.1        71.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..              26.4         3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..     31340.0   19770.0             3677.0    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..           ..    7220.0            1730.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             3300.0            ..    2060.0             577.0      1417.1       726.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..        ..                ..       197.3       272.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                ..      2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..             21.8        24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..            ..       5.9               5.8         5.3         5.4
URBAN                                  ..           ..       4.2_/             5.5         4.9         5.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..        6.0               6.0         5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        3.0
URBAN                                  .      .              1.8/
RUlRAL                                       ..              3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..            ..        ..              45.1        22.5        28.1
URBAN             __                                        56.5j             67.9        17.8        45.1
RURAL                                 ...                      ..                            .         9.9



-24-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN,  RAB REPBLIC OP  REFERENCE GROUPS (AJSTED) AYERAGES
- MOST RECEN  ESTIMATE) -
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF             -  OTRCNT  aSIAE 
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                   8.0         10.0       26.0              85.0         63.3         82.7
MALE                   14.0         18.0       45.0             103.7         79.1        87.3
FEMALE                  0.4          2.0        7.0              66.0         48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    0.1          1.0        4.0              27.6         16.7         21.4
MALE                     ..          1.0        8.0              39.2         22.1        33.0
FEMALE                   ..          0.1        1.0              20.8         10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    ..              2.0        2.0              4.3           5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              45.0         51.0       38.0              32.6         41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                            17.0         24.0       21.0              23.4         21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           3.0            ..       13.0             41.4          31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..            ..        ..              16.7          2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..            ..      13.0             147.9         27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..            ..        ..              36.0          2.4         13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       ..        10.0          ..             17.9          5.3         18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..               ..         ..              2.9           1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)             ..           ..    1140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      3.8          4.2        4.3               8.6         24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                83.2         79.3       76.3              43.0         69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    6.9          9.0       11.0              23.7         10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  30.0         29.1        28.3             26.7         36.9         37.1
MALE                                   57.0          55.1       53.6             46.4          52.4        48.8
FEMALE                                  2.3           2.4        2.5              5.1          18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   ..           ..        2.2               1.8          1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..          ..             21.4            ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..               ..        ..              48.6            ..       48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..               5.3            ..        6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..              15.0            ..       16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LFVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..             201.3         99.2       241.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             134.2         78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..             288.6         91.9       179.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       83.0             170.0         54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              22.9         44.1        24.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       80.0              31.2         53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Tncome
($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  Av. 1964-66;   /g  Only in the major cities of Sana'a, Tatz, Hlodeidah
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 25 -
0RPXNTTOg OIP S0CIAL nfIATR                                                           Me__I
Pats: ThLe adjusted group average. for "ea LIndiator rer population-welghtad posetric means. aitluding the eltrame values of the Indicator aNd the most
populated country in *auh group. Coverage of coumtrIes mang tha indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Ixportere and indicators of access to mater and aocreta 4isposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geousctic gmaes without the enclualo of extreme values.
LAND Atfl (thousand sq. km)                                                              Population  per hospital bed - total, urban, and rur4l - Population (total,
ita- Total surface srea comprising land ares and ilanmd vwatrs,                        urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bade
Ar"tr     - Most rsnet estimate of agrIcultural area used temporarily              4avilabla in public and private general and specialigad hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market end kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Honpitels are establishments Permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                             at least one phyaician.  Ratabliahmente providing principally custodial
cars are not included. lural hospitdaa. however. include health and mdi-
GMP PR  CAPITA (US$) - GN  per capita eatimatma at current market pricess,                 cal  aenr. nor permanntiy staffed by a physician (but by a medical  -~
calculated by seam  conversion method as Porid Boan  Aiss (1975-77 basis);              sietant, nurme, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accomadation and
1960, 1970, end 1977 data,                                                              provide a limited range, of medical facilities.
Admiissions per hospital had - Total number of admissions to or discharge.
11111   CMUUIGTI0U PU CAITA - Annual conasptlon of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the numbekr of beds.
(coal and lignite, Petroleum. netural gs and hydra-, nuclear And geo-
thermal electricity) ink kilograme of coal equivalent per capita.                    USING
Aversge isig of household (persons Per household) - total, urbau, end raral'-
POPUIATION AND VITA  SITSLC                                                                  household consists of a group of individuals who shars living quarters
Total  opuation  amid-veer   illions) - As'of July 1; if not available,                   and thoir main meals.  k boarder or lodger may or may oot be included in
avrg  of twoe-yea  eatisacea  1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household f or etatiscioal purpoess.  Statistical def initions of boads-
urman nonulation C oercent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
timn: different definitionst of urvban areas may affect compaability                 Avsreaa nonber of sersons oar room -  otal.'t .r..n. an.d rural - ALverage num-
of data eemsn countries,                                                               ber of persons Per room in all, urban  an  rra  occupied conventional
Population density                                                                        dwellings, respeccively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Fer  mg. km, - Wi-year POPAULati Ponpr squarek b±om.tsr (100 bectarts)                   oaoccupied Parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (sercantof dwellings) - total. urban, end rural -
Per sm. kit. esriculture land - Competed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwelig    iheetricity in living quarters as percentase
onIT.                                                                                  of total, urban, azd rural dwellings respectively.
PopuLlation sae structure .(percent) - Children (0-16 years) , working-age
(1-64 yerar), and retired (65 years snd aver) am percentages of mid-               LUOCATION
year Population.                                                                    Adiusted anroillet ratios
Population arnwth rate (nercentl - total. mad urban - Compound ana                     Primary school - total-, anA femle_ - Total end femeals enrollment of all ages
growth races of total &and urban aid-year papulaz:lcns fcr 19!"-60                     at the primary level as percentages of respectivaly primary school-age
196070, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes chiloren agei 6-Il peacki but adluatod f-r
Crude birth rate Cost tho.osocd  - Annual live births per thourand of                     different lengthse of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; tan-year arithmetic avera6c.o Win& 10in 1960 and                  cationL enrollment my exceed 100 ptccent since seons pupils are below or
I9?O sand fire-year~ oseregs endig in 1975 for -ets reever  aeemrit.                   show. tha official school age.
Crude death rats (2ar thoueeod) - Annual d,wi~iha pcc tlaoucci,X of mid-               SecoDary school - total, and f anal. - Comsputed as above; secondary educe-
y.ar population, ten-Teat ariciomtic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tiaon requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for szit recent est0irria.                        vides general vocational, or teether training instructlonm rot pupilm
Groes reproduction rata - Average number of dengbtirt a wooci will banti                  usually of 12 to 17 y"ear  of age; correspondence courses are gSnerally
ii her normal vePrOA-tortv  period if shn srysrian,ass pent e-                          -enluded.
specific fertility rates. usually five-year  VECrAgOae n4ing in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                        clods technical, industrial, or other pyogrene which opertec ind.ependently
jq!~ pa   n =  k&              awnal(tcuan              - Annu   aaluber of               or an departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birgh.-cbuntro  dc,vicse undr auspices of national foully              Punil-tegcbsr ratio - primary, and seconcdary - Total students enrolled in
Plaunnin  p-ogran.                                                                     primary and .enondary  -levl  dtvid.4 by numbers of t ...here to the cotta-
Pilyolinina- usri   oarentof mrrid woen)- Paerncage of                     epondig levels.
married women of child-bearing age (l-i   er)who use sirth-canccol                  Adult lite.rscY rats (p.rcent) - litetita adulto (able to :caad and ,rrite) as
devicee to all married woen in same age group,                                         a percentage    total adult population aged iS years and ever.
PiOlO MMi NMUTTTOv                                                                    COUSUIpTi0f
loden of food produrtion Par capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passenger tars (Der thousand Population) - Peasseger cars comprise soatr cars
capita annual produttionof al  food codie.                                           seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Ter  apIa suplyof .pLorits (percent of raouirmenm)-Ccoputed fron                  'cehicl*s.
ensrgy eqiaeto   e   odsple   vial  In counry per capita                            Radio receivers (oear thousand Population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day. Avatiable suppilies comprise doesmatic productie, isporte lea.              broatacs t. L. ao   public par thousand of pouain;eaum                      ......nse
enports. and changes in stock.  Not supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receiver  in countries and in years when rgistrrnt!on of radto sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and lo"ese  in distributlon.  Re-                offsect; date for recent years say not be eomparable since most countries
quiraenits were cstimeted by 'AO beset on ph?siolrgical needs for nLor-              abGlishad Ilictnieg.
eel activity and heelth considering anvironumetal tenparaturs, body                 TV receivers (yer thousand 2oou.lation) - TV receivers for broadcast to latermL
weights, age and sam distribtciven  of pousto.ed aliowing 10 Per-                      pubiic Per thousand population; 4.clud.. unltcenaad TV raeceivers L. tow-
cant fotr weece or household level.                                                    tr±es scd in y4ors when rapistrationi of TV soet  was in affent.
Per capita ennolv of orot       aeaorday) - Protein content of per                    Saeanrcrculation (par thousand    01&tlatio) - Shows the aver&g* circula-
capita net supply of too  per day.Net supply of food is definedacto   idiygnalIae:.uppr'iloo as                                                     a  erutclpoh
above.  gquiromants f or all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording generai news.  It is conaidar.d to
a Minimum alwneof 60 gream of total protain per day, and 20 gtems                      be "daily" if it appears et Il...t four  ises . week.
ofanimal and Pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be -anial protein.            Cinema sknnul   tatndance pRo tapirs po~ ..*  e    - Based on the n-nber of ticketo
Theas  standards are lower thao those of 75 grTna of total proteio and                 sold during the ye"r   including adnissions to drive-in clasese and mobils
23 gtem. of animal proteia as an average for the world, proposed by                    uniie.
F60 in the rhird World Food Survey.
Pee capita Poteinl eunel, fro, enisl aAd oul.. - Protein supply of food              fWL(Pi0Hfr
darived frce acinols and pulses in gross per day.                                   Total labor force (thoteaands) - Econonlially active porucue, including Coned
Child (eat*  1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deathe per thoum-               forces and unemployed hutoxclutdingi housewives, students, etc.  Defi.i-
and in  lae group 1-b yeasr, to children in this age group.                            tions in narious countries ate not conparable.
yanala  percent    -emale 1labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEAlTh                                                                                  giutr   ooei    lbor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birch (years) - Average -nuber of years of lilf                       as parcentage of total labor force.
remaining or birth; usually five-year &verapes "nding in 1960. 1970,                Indust"y (Peocec)  -Labor forte in amiing. conetruction. manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity,..wter and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rgce (So  hoea          - Annual deaths of infants under             Participation rate (percent) - total, ~-sl,and fnl  - Tocal, nala, and
one year of am. per thounond live birhte.                                              Fen-Is labor Ferre as Parc....rass of their c-spectiva populations.
Accs to ac safe watar (percent of popul't ion) -talurn,and rural -                       Th.$. ste Tbs0 adjusted Participation r.et. reflecting *00..0
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the population. end lone tine trend.
cafe vater supply (iicludoes treated surface waters or untreated but                E conomic dependency ratio - Rtatio of population under 15 and 65 and user to
un-ntaninsted water sorb as that from  protected boreholes, springa,                   the iabor force in ego group of 15-64 yearo.
-            en~~d sanitary welleS  es Percentages of their reepectiv. populations.
In an urban eres a public fountain or etandpost located not sore                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 100 eaters from a house say ha considered as being within te-                  Pacne of Private  -ocome (both in cash and kind) raci-ed by richest 
sobabi  access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, riches  20 percent, po.oret 210 percnt, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the hous.vifs or nanbers of tbs bousehold do not have to                    of householdo.t
spend adisproportionate part of th. day, in fetching ch. faally'.
oscar needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GOU.OPS
Access to ancrata dieposai toretof populationS - total, urban, and                    fEstinated absolute poverty id-on level (US$ pet capita) -  rtnoc and rurl1
rnrsl - Number of People (total, urban, and rural) served by excrsta                     Absolute poverty incens level is that intone level belo. which -a ininal
diapseal as Percentages of their respective poPuietions.  tEcreta                      nutritionally adequate disc plus essential non-food requirene-ts is rot
lispo...l eat' include the collection end dispoeel, with or without                    afforda'ble.
!reatment, of human mecreta and vests-water byf wtetr-borno systems                 Estmated relative ploverty tncoma level (USSi per capit.) - urban and r,r.I 
r tho use of Pit Privies end similar installations.                                    Realtive, povr"tyic... level is that items level Ieo. tha .. ....thixd
?Ouit otpr ph-sician - P.puiotion divided by nuber of prrcticing                   par capita p.r.ooaI incone of the country.
-cysicl.no qualified from a oa1.1la  school or university l1vel.                    fEtieated population below poverty Inc.ow, level (p.rc.nt) - urban cod  .rcr1 
Po  ainPar nutns e par-u  - ?Popultion divided by nuabec of                         Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either 'ubsolure poor' or
P-cotcinci  solo and female  raduate flutes., pr.ctiec1 noes,ad                        "otiepoor" whichever is Sr..cer.
-ui.ta.tois.
Economic and Sonia. let. lvse
Economic Analysis and Projections Departnent



- 26 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Ml)                                   ANNUAL  RATE OF CROWTH
(1977/78 prices)
1972/73        1977/78 1/    FY74-78         FY78
GNP at Market Prices            1470          3270              17          11
CDP at Market Prices             1270         2180              11          10
Gross Domestic Investments        130           700             40          32
Gross National Savings            100           940             57           0
Exports of GNTS                    50            60              4         -14
Imports of GNFS                   280          910              27           9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1977/78)
Value Added        Resident Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$f lLr     _       Thous.           x           U.S. $       Z
Agriculture      730        38        735           69            990         55
Industry        330         17        l1            10           2970       165
Services        860         45        220           21           3910       217
OTALO/A7vEAGE 1920        100       1066          100           1800       100
GOVERNMEN'T FINANCE (YR1s M1n)
Z of GNP
1972/73     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1977178
Current Revenue                  199         605         1293         1965           13
Current Expenditure               272        617          841         1250            8
Current Deficit/Surplus          -73         -12          452          715            5
Development Expenditure            58        277          463          891            6
of which financed by
external loans                  (57)      (145)        (188)        (277)          (2)
External Assitance, net           116         579         606          697            5
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
-X     .Yls iiillioa  Luutsndirg End Period
Honey Supply                      489       2028         3642         5248
Bank Credit to Gov't. Sector    102         -407         -939         -990
Bank Credit to Non-Govt Sector  169          566         1474         1555
Percentages or Index Numbers
Money Supply as Z of GNP           14         20           26           36
Consumer Price Index (1972-100)  n.a.        237          287          348
Annual Percentage increase in:
Money Supply                   36        104           80           44
Consumer Price Index          n.8.        17           21           21
,L  Tentative World Bank estimate.



Annex 1
-27-                P14  5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln).
1972/73     1975/76    1976177   1977/78
Exports of Goods, fob                    7          12         19           7
Imports of Goods, cif                 120          382        730         906
Trade Balance                        -113         -370       -711        -899
Non factor Services, net              -11            22        -3         -21
Factor Income, net                    105         479         882        1160
Workers' Remittances, not          (102)       (457)       (842)      (1090)
Investment Income, net               (3)        (22)        (40)        (70)
Balance on Current Account            -19          131        168         240
N & LT Capital, net                    22          157        146         16
Official Grants, net                 14114                  104        101
Official Loans, net                   8           44         42          62
Disbursements                     (12)         (47)       (46)         68
Napaynets                         (-4)         (-3)       (-4)         6)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net           25            4        133         -21
Incr"ase in Reserves (-)              -28         -286       -447       -382
Gross Reserves (end FT) I              65          473        920        1302
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(AVERAGE 1976/77-1977/78)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30. 1978
I
US$ Min.
Total outstanding              693           Cotton and Cotton Products  31
of which disbursed             363           Coffee                        13
Rides & Skins                 14
.Biscuits & Confectionary    24
AUl other commodities         18
100
DEBT SERVICE RATIO-1 FOR 1977178                 RATE OF EXCHANGE
Since February 1973
.                     US$ 1.00 - YRls  4.50
Total outstandinR and                           YR1 1.00 - US$ 0.22
disbursed              1
j/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/  Includes workers' remittances.
EMIDB
December 1, 1979



- 28-                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits /1
(As of November 30, 1979 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways I                   7.7          -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture I   21.2 /2           0.15
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  11.0          0.60
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply                6.3          0.34
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate           2.3          0.95
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development          10.0          5.24
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways II                 9.0           -
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage           8.1          3.20
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                   8.0          1.80
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing             5.2          2.74
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing         5.0          2.70
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage              10.0          7.40
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development            6.0          5.81
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways III               11.5         11.50
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture II  10.5             10.40
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Power Distri-
bution                   10.0         9.90
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture
III /3                  15.0         15.00
915     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                  10.0         10.00
950     1979   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage /4             12.0         12.00
Total                                                 178.8 /1     99.73
Of which has been repaid                                -
Total now held by IDA                                 178.8
Total undisbursed                                                  99.73
/1   Excluding $7 million credit for a textile rehabilitation project which
was cancelled on October 31, 1979.
/2   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
/3   Approved March 6, 1979; Credit not yet effective.
74? Approved September 4, 1979; Credit not yet effective.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1978)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor               Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978     Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products         2.4      -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Conmitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repavments. sales                                 -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Three Bank grants of $200,000, $200,000 and $120,000 respectively,
were approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning
and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative expert. The
Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000. The
Bank grants will be fully disbursed in early 1980.
D.   Projects in Execution I/
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
All project components have been substantially completed and the
credit account is scheduled to close December 31, 1979. The project appears
to have been very successful.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit,
project implementation has fallen about 24 months behind appraisal estimates.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
However, five of the 12 project institutions became operational with the
school year beginning October 1979; another four are expected to commence
operations by January 1980. Construction on the remaining three is nearly
completed but deliverv of furniture and equipment is likely to extend into
1g8n so that full operation is not expected until the 198n/81 academic year.
The most crit'cal aspects of the project are the difficulty of recruiting
expatriate and trained Yemeni staff for project institutions, and of obtaining
technical assistance to draw up cirricula and to make the institutions opera-
tional.  With assistance from the UNDP/TJlNESCO institutional support team, the
government is pursuing discussions with bilateral agencies to meet the tech-
nical assistance and some staffing needs for the project institutions, anu
the major problem of staff recruitment is close to being solved with the
arrival of about 49 key specialists. In view of the delay caused in recruit-
ing key specialists for the important Basic Training Scheme and to allow the
undisbursed Lunds to be drawn down, the closing date has been postponed to
December 31, 1980.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: june 30, 1980.
Construction of the water distribution system has been completed.
With only final construction in the well field program remaining, the manor
elements of the project have entered the maintenance phase. NWTSA has initiated
its house connections program.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Construction work started in February 1976; construction of the
developed plots is almost finished and most plots have been rented. The
Industrial Estate Authority now wishes to establish additional estates in
Hodeidah and Taiz, and is seeking further assistance from the World Bank.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation had been
encouraging. During the past months, however, managerial, staffing, and
financial problems again beset the project, and the government is seeking
satisfactory solutions. Nevertheless, these problems are mitigated by the
momentum and scope of the agricultural extension and credit programs, and the
progress in well drilling, and completing the village water supply components.
Problems of cost escalation have been met by reducing the number of loans that
can be made to farmers, and the extent of the feeder roads component.



- 31 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date:  December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Following award of the combined water and sewerage civil works and
the electrical/mechanical works contract, construction was initiated in May
1979. Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority is
expected shortly. Consultants for the tariff study have begun work.
Cr. No. 611-VAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; E'fectiveness Date:  May 10, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Phvsical implementation of this project is proceeding on schedule
with five of the 12 project institutions operational by October 1979. Of the
remaining seveu, four are expected to become operational by January 1980, and
the rest are expected to be ready for the 1980/81 academic year. Bids for
furniture and equipment for the eight project institutions have been received
and evaluation is underway. Following the establishment of the National Basic
Training Board, an initial deposit of $50,000 has been made to the Basic
Training Fund, and some district training centers opened. Severe constraints
have been placed on achieving the educational objectives of the project due to
lack of progress in financing and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for
the project institutions. The government is pursuing discussions with bi-
lateral agencies to meet the technical assistance and some staffing needs for
the project institutions, and the major problem of staff recruitment is close
to being solved with the arrival of 49 key specialists.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training in
the US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. Contracts
for the silo, government bakeries and warehouses have been awarded; construc-
tion has commenced and is expected to be complete by April 1980. The report
on the National Nutrition Status Survey, carried out in cooperation with the
US Government's Center for Disease Control and USAID, is being drafted. Cost
overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for Development and
the government. The grain storage survey which was behind schedule, has been
completed.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project description was amended to reduce
and/or reorientate some of the components, without changing the project



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
concept. One dairy farm and the livestock fattening farm are nearing comple-
tion; the establishment is progressing well and the farm has started opera-
tions on a small scale. The other physical works, although progressing
reasonably well at present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughter-
house and animal health components, in particular, are achieving their aims,
and the livestock fattening, dairy production, and village development com-
ponents will provide valuable research information, and development experience
for the livestock sector in YAR.  The administrative and technical problems
encountered earlier in the year are on the way to being resolved, and project
implementation is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply ard Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All tenders for materials and construction of the water and sewerage
systems have been or are in the process of being awarded. The draft report of
the tariff study has been reviewed by the Authority and is being revised by
the consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule. However,
contracts for civil works have now been awarded, and construction is expected
to start early in 1980. Other technical staff provided for under the credit
are still to be appointed. The government has taken steps to ensure that
these appointments will be made in the near future in order to strengthen
the technical services department.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance to
the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance practices.
Other objectives of the project include the implementation of vehicle loading
controls, planning future highway development and the inception of an overlay
program to strengthen existing paved roads. Project implementation is underway
and the Chief Engineer has been appointed.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5 million
Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Implementation of the project began in mid-1978 and is progressing
satisfactorily.



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Cr. No. 832-YAR - Textiles Rehabilitation Project; $7.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The terminal date for the effectiveness of this credit, originally
November 22, 1978, was postponed twice to September 23, 1979 and October 31,
1979. The government has decided that it wishes to proceed with the project
with bilateral support from the original donor, and accordingly, not to
utilize the IDA credit for this purpose. It was decided, therefore, not to
meet the effectiveness conditions for the credit, and the agreement expired on
October 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of July 25,
1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date: January 1, 1983.
Implementation is underway, and tender documents for the supply
of equipment and materials have been prepared and issued. Consultants are
carrying out the rural electrification study. Problems facing YGEC are
managerial and financial. However, a general manager has now been appointed,
although the posts of assistant general manager for Administration, Finance,
and Engineering remain vacant. YGEC will face heavy borrowing Lo meet the
capital requirements of its current development program and needs to plan
carefully its expenditure and sources of finance.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0 million
Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date:  December 21, 1979; Closing Date:  July 31, 1986.
Project implementation is underway.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 34 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOURTH TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (WADI RIMA II)
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by countrv to Drepare
project:                                   May 1978 - January 1979
(b) The agency which has prepared
the project:                               Tihama Development Authority and
the Ministry of Agriculture using
feasibility studies made by con-
sultants (DHV Consulting Engineers)
financed by the Netherlands, and by
the Land Resources Division of the
British of Overseas Development
Administration.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA;
and date of first IDA Mission:             September 1978 (feasibility
report); February 6, 1979
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                   February 6, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:   November 29, 1979
(f) Expected date of Credit effec-
tiveness:                                  May 1980
Section II:  Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.         A condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement is
the signing of agreement(s) between the government and other co-financier(s)
for an amount of about $5.5 million equivalent (paragraph 59).
B.         Measures agreed upon by the government include:
(1) the government will introduce measures to control the use of
water resources (paragraph 39);



- 35 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(2) completion of a water regulation study before March 31, 1981, by a
specialist to be hired under the project and implementation of the
agreed recommendations of the study by the government for controlling
water deliveries to the primary canals through TDA (paragraph 56);
(3)  filling by June 30, 1980, all the senior project posts which could
not be filled by Yemeni staff of requisite experience, by expatriate
staff whose qualifications and term.s and conditions of appointment
would be satisfactory to the government and IDA (paragraph 58);
(4)  recovery of full capital, mainLenance and operation costs of the
irrigation works from landowners by a levy of a production tax of
not less than 2 percent of the gross agricultural produce in spate
irrigated areas, in addition to the incremental revenues from zakat
(paid by both landowners and tenants) due to increased production
(paragraph 60); and
(5) the cost recovery system and the level of charges would be reviewed,
jointly with the Association, at intervals of not more than five
years (paragraph 60).






I3 a 7         IO1ES, s                   OE      < IA A- l                                                                                                      BD 14320
1                                               A o   0 ME  ,  K  IRAIN                                 YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC                                       1432
s::AH: U  0 25  50  ARAB    SAUDI ARABIA                                                 TIHAMA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV
Wadi Rima Project Area,
SUAN  4'-                                              Souther  Su,pply Canl-ia   od
/         /   EO a R'S   \                         C h-2 - - 7 C he k  - d ,1 p   S t r u c r, r e   d Ith   O f ftu e5
8'o   no                                  D--rI`,                         Roads Under Wadi Russo I Protec
S....  ~ ~    ~      -        ~~J                           ---Syph-n~'     APPrni-ate BoUn,daries nf Shaykshdan,
* 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~  f ~~~~~~~~~Sand Stabilzai-  Ares,-                                   Prio   oudre
|;qz-fEEkt MlEo 24r u \ SDAI
ETH OPIA  som                 W.f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      =   P-P g~~~~~~~~.rrt-a and Other Use
~~   ~   ~    ~          4U-'  ~-                                           Canals to be Re,hab,iitatd=    Rg.r  pt1- ti
2                                     *t' - '  '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- '- 'o'-'-'-S   -gA0   '    '' gD-r n  W,,l    th  Irregula  Sp ate    Irg Bati an,
------  E-t,~~~~~g Cn.l~~~  Contours (25 Meters~ 100 Meter  RNHil)
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~Wadis
'U            P~~~~JEM C  LEWKIOt EuS         4     n
mtaSi           REPUBLIC
-  2 AIBANIC~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zRAI
-   -          --          '7/~~~~~~5" --  --
£ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA8ATT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RMr
40,5  '-<~~~--z'<   SAij~~~M H     "'  '~RIJJUD/
TURAYBAI4 / -
M .-,16                                                        41,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



