Document of
The World Bank    FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2613-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
December 13, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YRl 1.00       = US$0.22
YRls 1 million = US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)                  = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)             = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)               = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)           = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
YAR      =  Yemen Arab Republic
ACB      =  Agricultural Credit Bank
ARS      =  Agricultural Research Station
CB       =  Central Bank
CPO      =  Central Planning Organization
ECWA     =  Economic Commission for West Asia
GCC      =  General Cotton Company
GDP      =  Gross Domestic Product
KFAED    =  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LDA's    =  Local Development Associations
LRD/ODM  =  Land Reclamation Division of British Minisi
of Overseas Development
TDA      =  Tihama Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Is   Background  .......... *s.* ...                  ........ O..       1
A.   Project Background ............ . ....... . .....              1
B. The Agricultural Sector..                                       2
II. THE PROJECT AREA....                                                  7
A.   Location .. . .....................                            7
B.   Resources   ......... ........................                 8
C.   Farm Size and Land Tenure.....................               11
D.   Infrastructure .............................. .               12
III.   THE PROJECT  ..................                                    13
A.   Design Features  *........ ..    .....................        13
B.   Costs and Financing Arrangements            ...............   18
C.   Procurement and Disbursement                                 21
D.   Accounting so ................................                22
E.   Environmental Impact .............. .     .............      23
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........... .. ............            23
A.   Organization and Staffing ......................             23
B.   Agricultural Services ..........................             24
C.   Operation and Maintenance             ......................  26
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation  ......................             27
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ..................-.oooooo                 27
A.   Present Land Use and Crop Distribution .........             27
B.   Development Constraints in Wadi Rima ...........              28
C.   Present and Future Area and Yields ..............            28
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Mian (Engineer), H. Eisa (Agricul-
turalist) and Mesdames S. Fukuda-Parr (Economist) and A. Paiva (Y.P.).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                    Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
AND  COST  RECOVERY   . ............................... . .   .  31
A.   Projected Volumes of Production ........ .......     31
B.  Marketing and Prices ............................. ...  32
C.  Farm  Incomes   .... ...........................    .......   34
D.  Taxes and Cost Recovery   ........................    36
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..........................      38
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries .....................      38
B.  Economic Analysis . ......................... . ...   40
C.  Project  Risks   . .................  ... ..*. .  ...... .   40
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ............... ............. ... .........  42
ANNEXES
1.  Description of Project Works
2.  Pilot Scheme to Expand TDA Rural Development Activities
3.  Water Availability and Requirements
4.  Cost Estimate Details
5.  Supporting Tables and Charts
6.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
1.1 Indices of Area Planted and Value of Agricultural Production at
Constant Prices
1.2 Resources Allocated to Agriculture in the First Five-Year Plan in
Public Sector
2.1 Farm Size Distribution
2.2 Population Distribution in Spate Irrigated Area
3.1 Project Costs
3.2 Financing Plan
3.3 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.1 Present and Projected Crop Area With Spate Irrigation
5.2 Present and Future Yield Levels in Spate Irrigated Area
6.1  Project Production
6.2 Projected Consumption of Fruits, Vegetables and Maize
6.3 Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
6.4 Present and Projected Farm Income Levels
6.5 Projected Farm Incomes with Average Cropsharing Arrangements
6.6 Incremental Taxes due to the Project
6.7 Rent and Cost Recovery
7.1 Farm Labor Requirement
7.2 Sensitivity Analysis - Crossover Value
7.3 Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) to help finance an agricultural devel-
opment project, namely Tihama Development Project IV (Wadi Rima II) which
would include: (i) restructuring of the Wadi Rima's irrigation system to
improve its conveyance efficiency and command; (ii) a pilot program of sand
stabilization to prevent deterioration of cultivated lands bordering the
unstabilized sand dunes; and (iii) identification of the social factors which
constrain development of the country's rural life and developing a pilot
project of rural uplift. The objective of the project is the development of
the country's agricultural sector in general and the Tihama coastal plain in
particular.
1.02      The Tihama Development Project IV (Wadi Rima II) is a continuation
of the developmental action initiated under the Tihama Development Project II
(Wadi Rima I) which comprised: (i) establishing agricultural extension,
credit, plant protection and veterinary services in Wadi Rima and constructing
gravel access roads and water supply installations for its rural population;
(ii) constructing a headquarters complex for the Tihama Development Authority;
and (iii) providing funds for the second phases of the UNDP's Institutional
Support and Agricultural Research Projects. The restructuring of the Wadi's
irrigation system then envisaged involved the use of stone-filled groynes in
the Wadi bed which were untested under the severe spate conditions prevailing
in the Tihama. It was therefore decided to provide for the testing of such
groynes under the Tihama II (Wadi Rima I) project and simultaneously to under-
take a study of alternative means of restructuring the Wadi's irrigation
system to determine a technically adequate and financially viable solution for
the same. However, it was considered necessary and desirable to proceed with
developing the extension credit and veterinary services for the Wadi together
with village water supply and access roads as agricultural production could
be increased thereby and the amenities of rural life improved, while awaiting
the results of a further study to determine the most effective and least cost
means of restructuring the irrigation system. This study, at feasibility
*        level, has been completed.  It indicated that, with the increased cost of
labor since the Ministry of Overseas Development report was written in 1976,
groynes are not the least cost alternative. Consequently, the development of
the Wadi was planned in two phases. This project is based on the feasibility
studies made by DHV Consultants, financed by the Kingdom of Netherlands, for
the improvement of the wadi's irrigation system and by a British technical
assistance team of the Land Resources Division of the British Ministry of
Overseas Development (LRD/ODM) for the pilot sand stabilization program.



-2
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      General characteristics of the agricultural sector, some unique to
YAR, include:
(a) an open economy with Government intervention limited largely
to providing basic services, infrastructure and some policy
guidance;
(b) scarce natural resources with regularly arable area of only
1.5 million ha out of the country's total area of 20 million
ha of which about 15% is irrigated;
(c) absence of basic government services and infrastructure,
particularly roads;
(d) a sophisticated traditional agriculture reflecting consider-
able ingenuity in mastering the environment, as evidenced in
terraces on the highlands and systems of water diversion and
irrigation; and
(e) shortage of agricultural labor resulting from massive emigra-
tion of labor amounting to 700,000 by 1979 or 38% of the
labor force, to neighboring oil producing countries.
This most unusual phenomenon of massive emigration had dramatic effects on
stimulating the economy as a whole. Specifically on the agricultural sector,
it had four main effects: (i) wages rose by 20 time since 1971/72 compared to
about three times for general inflation, thus increasing production costs
out of proportion with output prices; (ii) shortage of labor and availability
of capital have induced changes in resource utilization, particularly in
mechanization; (iii) rural incomes rose considerably as a result of higher
wages and remittances which increased from US$58 million in 1971/72 to US$1.3
billion in 1977/78, equivalent to about US$240 per capita. This affected the
poorest people, landless farm workers, particularly; (iv) the income effect on
demand, combined with the loss in production due to high costs of production,
have resulted in an increased dependence on agricultural imports.
Role of Agriculture and Recent Performance
1.04      Agriculture is the single most important sector of the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR). It generates 45% of the country's GDP, employs 65% of the
resident labor force, and accounts for more than 90% of total exports. How-
ever, due to the dynamism of other sectors and the emigration of rural labor,
the role of agriculture is changing. During the short period of six years
(1969/70-1976/77) for which national accounts are available, the share of
agriculture fell from about 55% of total GDP to about 44%, and agricultural
employment was reduced by approximately 15%.
1.05      Nevertheless, agricultural GDP at market prices increased at an
estimated average annual rate of 4.6%, which compares favorably with 7.7% for
the economy as a whole. The following table shows trends in agricultural
production:



-3-
Table 1.1: INDICES OF AREA PLANTED AND VALUE OF AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTION AT CONSTANT PRICES
(1971-72 =100)
1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78
Area planted      104     100      188     106      128     122      114     104
Production
Value
Crops            106     100      125     112      144     133      127     n.a.
Livestock         79     100       72      66       83      81       71     n.a.
Fisheries        103     100       97      94       91      88       59     n.a.
Total Pro-
duction            98     100      109      98      124     116      109     n.a.
Source:  Central Planning Organization, National Accounts Report for 1969/70
to 1975/76, data for 1976/77-77/79 from CPO, Statistical Office.
While an overall increase in crop production is seen, production and areas
under foodgrains except maize and cotton decreased. This is compensated by
the increase in production of higher value crops, vegetables, legumes and
fruits. This shift is due to many factors such as the higher cost of labor
and rising incomes with corresponding changes in consumer tastes. It is also
seen that livestock, fisheries and forestry subsectors have failed to keep up
with crop production.
Major Issues and Constraints
1.06      In context of the foregoing, the main issue in Yemeni agriculture
today is how to improve efficiency of production sufficiently and rapidly
in face of labor scarcity, high production costs, competition from imports,
severe inadequacy of infrastructure and agricultural institutions as well
as limited natural resources and weak data base for planning particularly in
respect of surface hydrology and groundwater potential for the country. Two
other issues of particular concern are the growing imbalance in trade and
dependence on food imports and land tenure.
1.07      Almost all (90%) of YAR's exports are of agricultural origin, and
80% of its export earnings are generated by three commodities--cotton and
cottonseed, coffee and hides. Cotton has been severely affected by rise in
wage rates which prompted farmers to shift to less labor intensive crops and
its production declined 27,000 tons in 1974/75 to 4,000 tons by 1977/78.
Area planted fell during the same period from 20,000 ha to 4,700 ha.  Current
coffee production is at about one third of pre-World War II levels, and has
stagnated over the past years, and is not likely to improve since it is com-
petitive with qat. Exports have thus declined since 1974 from about YRls 51
million to about YRls 43 million in 1976/77. During the same period, total
imports rose fifteen-fold from YRls 204.4 to 3,032 million. Preliminary data
for 1978/79 shows the gap widening further. Imports of foodstuffs alone rose



- 4 -
from YRls 91 to 1,590 million from 1971/72 to 1977/78. This represents 41% of
total domestic food consumption for 1977/78. Approximately 85% of the upsurge
in demand for imported food has consisted of cereals, sugar and sugar prepara-
tions, fruits and vegetables, edible fats and oils, which have a relatively
high income 2lasticity of demand due to the low income base at this juncture
of YAR's economic development. Unfortunately, however, the agricultural
sector is not yet equipped to respond to the changing levels and pattern of
consumption and the country is expected to continue to expand food imports
well into the 1980s.
1.08      The land tenure situation characterized by widespread tenancy and
concentration of ownership of land in the state, religious trusts and a
limited number of private individuals severely limits the spread of agricul-
tural innovation. Although there is much variation throughout the country to
meet special conditions of water supply, soil quality, and supply demand of
labor and land, the basic sharecropping arrangement is the equal division of
the crop after deduction of Zakat (religious tax) and payment of hired labor
for harvesting. These traditional tenancy terms have become anachronistic
with the need to invest in modernization of agriculture because tenants would
be expected to bear the full burden and risk of higher operating costs and
capital expenditures, while sharing with landlords the returns from such out-
lays on a 50-50 basis or less favorable one when irrigation is utilized.
Recognizing this problem, the Government has initated a nationwide study of
the tenancy arrangements to recommend a system consistent with giving farmers
incentive to raise productivity, partly financed by IDA credit for Tihama
Development II (Wadi Rima I). Pending the completion of this study, a
religious edict requiring landowners to share in the costs of production in
proportion to their share in output has been issued. There are indications
that terms are turning in favor of the tenant due to both the edict and market
forces.
1.09      Although the land tenure situation reflects a skewed distribution of
wealth as well as a highly stratified social structure, income distribution
presents less pressing an issue for the agriculture sector in YAR as it might
be for most other developing countries because YAR for the present does not
need to entirely rely on its agriculture to improve incomes of the rural poor.
Wage employment abroad and in urban areas provide opportunities to virtually
all families to substantially increase their incomes and to lessen their
dependence on local landlords. Strategy for agricultural development accord-
ingly should and does concentrate on improvements in productivity and institu-
tion building. Thus the most important issues for rural development in YAR
are not so much in whether priority for agricultural investments should be
assigned to high productive potential or to low incomes but in providing
social services to improve the quality of life and in ensuring that general
Government policies do not favor the wealthy.
Government Plans and Policies
1.10      Government planning for agriculture is limited by the free-market
orientation of the economy, by the thin statistical base, shortage of trained
manpower and the absence of firmly established institutions. During the first



-5-
three year development program (1973/74-75/78), the main objective was to
build institutions, acquire basic data, train manpower, establish needed orga-
nizations, conduct resource surveys and undertake a few projects which would
also contribute to long term growth, e.g., Tihama Development I, Southern
Uplands Rural Development. During this period, external assistance enabled
the Government to reorganize and strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture,
establish a central research station in Taiz (CARS) with a substation in Ibb,
plus several experimental stations and nurseries. The Agricultural Credit
Fund (ACF) and an Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) were created (now merged into
a single organization). Agricultural extension was introduced in both the
Southern Uplands and areas under the jurisdiction of the Tihama Development
Authority (TDA). The latter was recently assigned full responsiblity for land
and water resources development for agriculture in the Tihama region. Hydro-
meteorological stations were established in the catchment areas of Tihama
Wadis during the feasibility studies of development projects pertaining to
these Wadis and arrangements made for collecting the basic data from these
stations. Some drilling was also done in project areas to assess their
groundwater potential and a network of observation wells were established to
keep track of the groundwater movements. The Government is aware that the
work initiated in these areas need to be extended in other areas to assess
surface and groundwater potential of the country as a whole and, is planning
to entrust a study to consultants to review the work already done and to
plan additional work necessary to determine the surface and groundwater
potential of the country.
1.11      A First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81) sets broader objectives
for agriculture than the three-year program and focusses on specific projects.
Resources allocated to agriculture are set at YRls 2.6 billion (US$587.4 mil-
lion), or 14% of the total investment outlays envisaged in the Plan, of which
YRls 1.4 billion would be in the public sector, YRls 1.0 billion in the pri-
vate and YRls 0.2 billion in the mixed. While allocation within the latter
two sectors are not specified, YRls 1.4 billion (US$320 million) public sector
investments are for some 55 projects as follows:
Table 1.2: RESOURCES ALLOCATED TO AGRICULTURE IN FIRST
FIVE-YEAR PLAN IN PUBLIC SECTOR
Total Amount              %
Subsector                               YRls Millions   US$ Millions   of Total
Irrigation                                    710              155          50
(Tihama)                                     (480)            (110)         34
Livestock                                     260               60           18
Crops Research and Training                   200               45           14
Rural Development                             160               35           11
Fisheries                                      90               20            6
Forestry                                       20                5            1
1,440             320          100



-6-
1.12      To achieve the planned growth rate of 5.5%, the plan relies heavily
on irrigated agriculture and areas with adequate rainfall to raise yields,
diversify production and, to some extent, expand area planted. The basic
inputs needed for reaching the plan targets include increases in fertilizers
by 290%, insecticides by 410%, veterinary supplies by 170% atiu tractors by
215%.
1.13      Implementation of this program will depend on considerable external
financing. Approximately YRls 1.5 billion, 55% of total outlays, would be
financed from domestic sources, of which 18% (YRls 263 million) would be from
government, and the rest presumably by the private sector. External financing
on the order of YRls 1.2 billion (US$265 million) would be sought. External
assistance would be also required to meet staffing needs of the Plan, due
to the continuing acute shortage of skilled manpower and the time needed to
educate and train Yemeni technicians and administrators. About 85-90 high
level expatriates will be needed plus those needed to fill posts that would
normally be held by Yemeni counterparts. This situation is expected to per-
sist well into the 1980's. As a result of massive efforts in the educational
sector, however, manpower constraints in middle level skills such as extension
and credit should ease somewhat in the early 1980s.
Previous Bank Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.14      The Bank's role in the development of YAR's agriculture has signif-
icantly contributed to institution-building and filling the financial resource
gap. To date, IDA has committed about US$66.9 million to help finance six
projects in agriculture and agro-industries. It has helped introduce extension,
credit, improved crop varieties and farm inputs to increase productivity. In
addition to its financial support the Bank has acted as executing agency for
the UNDP-financed project under which substantial institutional support is
given to the Ministry of Agriculture (para 1.15). Furthermore, in view of the
increasing costs of projects and limited IDA funds available, the Association
has helped attract other donors -- e.g., the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED), the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the
Netherlands, the U.K., the Saudi Fund for Development and the Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau -- to co-finance projects.
1.15      The first IDA agricultural project, the Tihama Development I (Wadi
Zabid), co-financed with the Kuwait Fund, is nearing completion, about six
months behind schedule. The original IDA credit for this project of US$10.9
million and the Kuwait Fund loan of $6.4 million had to be supplemented by
US$10.3 million and US$9.6 million, respectively, because of cost overruns
resulting from increased inflation and design revisions. The second project
is the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project, financed with an IDA credit
of $10 million and co-financed with $10 million from the Abu Dhabi Fund.  After
initial managerial problems, its implementation is now satisfactory. The third
project for Grain Storage and Processing, financed with $5.2 million from IDA
and $11 million from the Saudi Fund, is progressing well. A fourth IDA credit
of $5 million, approved in 1976, for a Livestock Credit and Processing Project,
is co-financed by the Kuwait Fund, with $11.6 million, the Netherlands, $8.9
million, and the United Kingdom, $2.4 million. Since overcoming start-up



-7-
difficulties during the first year, mainly due to cost overruns resulting from
increased inflation, delays in contracting consultants, securing land for
farms and abbatoirs, and securing counterpart Yemeni staff, this project is
now making progress. The fifth project is the Tihama Development II (Wadi
Rima I), the fore-runner to the proposed project, and is financed by an IDA
credit for $10.5 million together with loans from the EEC of $1.22 million
and UNDP of $1.5 million and the Kuwait Fund of $12.55 million. Under this
project, two important UNDP-financed projects (Institutional Support to the
Ministry of Agriculture executed by the Bank Group and Central Agricultural
Research and Training Organization (CARS) at Taiz executed by FAO), which
aimed at helping the Government overcome the lack of an effective agricultural
infrastructure and the acute shortage of skilled agriculutral manpower at all
levels, have been extended for five years as a combined UNDP project (Agricul-
tural Research (ARS) and Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture)
(para. 1.02). The sixth project is the Tihama Development III (Wadi Mawr),
for which a credit of $15 million was approved by IDA on March 8, 1979, is
cofinanced by IFAD, $12.0 million, the Kuwait Fund, $13 million, Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau, $8 million, and the EEC Special Action Fund ($3 million).
1.16      The proposed project in Wadi Rima would complement Tihama Develop-
ment Project II (Wadi Rima I) by financing the modernization of the irrigation
infrastructure which was left out of the previous project because feasibility
studies were not adequate (para. 1.02). This project will benefit from the
administrative and technical capability of the TDA developed under the first
Tihama project, and from the applied agricultural research conducted in Taiz
and by TDA in Zabid.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
General
2.01      Tihama is the YAR's coastal plain, 30 to 60 km wide, paralleling the
Red Sea. It is crossed by seven major wadis which originate in the western
slopes of the country's highlands and flow westward to the sea. The Project
activities for the Tihama Development Project IV (Waid Rima II) would be con-
centrated in Wadi Rima's alluvial plain which is about 80 km southeast of
Hodeidah, the main port and commercial center of YAR (Map IBRD 14320). The
gross area covered by the alluvial plain is about 64,000 ha out of which about
24,000 ha is regularly or periodically cultivated. Out of this about 8,000
ha is irrigated by a primitive spate irrigation system and about 4,000 ha by
wells. The restructuring of the Wadi's irrigation system would greatly
improve the agricultural production of the canal irrigated lands and the sand
stabilization program would provide protection to the well irrigated lands,
against sand intrusion. The area does not have any known mineral resources,
though ample scope exists for its agricultural development.



-8-
Climate
2.02      The climate of the Wadi Rima area, like that throughout the Tihama,
is hot and arid. From weather data collected in and around the Project area,
mean monthly temperatures are estimated to range from 24 C during the coolest
months to 35 C during the warmest months. Dust storms occur from February to
July. Average annual rainfall in the canal irrigated areas is of the order of
350 mm. Average relative humidity ranges between 50% to 70%. Despite the
relatively high coastal humidity, annual evaporation is about 2,500 mm.
B. Resources
Water Resources
2.03      The main source of surface water in the Project area is Wadi Rima
itself, which drains about 2,500 km2 upstream of the irrigated area. The
catchment comprises mountainous terrain with an average annual rainfall
of over 400 mm. Wadi flows have been monitored at Mishrafa (just upstream
of where Wadi Rima leaves the hills) and the present best estimate of the
mean annual discharge at this point is 80 Mm3. This equates to a runoff of
about 9% from the average rainfall of 400 mm in the catchment. During the
dry season, from October to March, the base flow at Mishrafa fluctuates
between 0.25 to 1.0 m3/sec, though during the last three years it has seldom
dropped below 0.5 m3/sec. A short flood season occurs between March and May
and contributes about 25% of the Wadi's annual flows. The main flood season
of 3-4 months' duration begins about July and contributes about 50% of the
annual flow. In most years the entire surface flows are consumed by irriga-
tion and seepage to the aquifer and no water reaches the sea. The Wadi Rima
water has quite low salinity concentration with conductivity measurements
between 300 and 600 micromhos/cm, carries a considerable amount of silt and
is very suitable for irrigation. The present irrigation system comprises 25
main canals, fed by water diverted by low rubble and brushwood deflectors in
the upper reaches and earth dikes in the lower reaches of the Wadi. During
large floods or periods of sustained flows, the dikes are commonly destroyed
and the water escapes down the Wadi. The present diversion and distribution
system needs improvement to provide assured and rotational supplies to cul-
tivators for optimum utilization of available water for irrigation.
2.04      Unconfined aquifers exist under the entire Project area with the
water table varying from the ground surface near the coast to more than 90 m
depth at the eastern end. The main known source of the aquifer recharge
is the Wadi, followed by deep percolation losses from irrigation fields. No
information on any direct contribution from the mountain front is available.
There has been a rapid increase in ground water abstraction for irrigation
over the last decade and the present local abstraction is estimated at 45 Mm3.
The water quality under most of the area is good with conductivity values less
than 1,000 micromhos/cm equivalent to a salt content of about 775 mg/l which
represents an acceptable salinity hazard for irrigation. Further monitoring



- 9 -
and ground water evaluation work has been included under first Wadi Rima Proj-
ect to firm up the estimate of annual recharge and to observe changes in the
sea water/fresh water interface, as affected by abstraction in the pump irri-
gated area.
Land Resources
2.05      The Project area, which lies below the mountain front and associated
spurs, comprises an extensive featureless sedimentary coastal Plain with allu-
vial fans merging into the western alluvial plain and sloping almost imper-
ceptibly towards the Red Sea. Towards the coast, variation is provided by
discontinuous expanses of sand dunes. The lower dunes, which generally border
the irrigated areas are partially stabilized by a thin vegetation cover of
salvadora bushes. In wadi-irrigated area, the land surface is bunded to form
irrigation basins.
Geology
2.06      The main Wadi Rima valley is floored by unconsolidated bouldery and
cobbly alluvium several meters thick flanked by a series of alluvial terraces.
The coastal plain consists of entirely sedimentary deposits which, away from
the mountain front, are at least 200 m thick.
Soils
2.07      Generations of spate irrigation on the alluvial fan, which extends
about 20 km from the mountain front, has led to the accumulation of uniform
silty surface deposits. These soils are generally deep and well drained.
Their texture ranges from loam to silty clay. As regards soil properties they
are generally low in organic matter content (<1%) in all surface horizons.
Free carbonate is present (usually less than 10%) leading to an alkaline
reaction with a pH range 7.5-8.0. Nitrogen content is generally very low
(0.1%) while total phosphorous and exchangeable potassium are moderate to
high. Available phosphorous is low due to fixation by free calcium carbonate.
Micronutrient levels are suspected to be rather low due to the high pH. The
available moisture holding capacities of the soils in the spate irrigated
areas are high. At field capacity they contain about 325 mm water/m soil-
depth.
Land Use
2.08      Wadi Rima's cultivated land (24,000 ha) comprises three main catego-
ries: (i) pump irrigated land (4,000 ha); (ii) spate irrigated land (8,000
ha); (iii) dryland farming (12,000 ha). The pump irrigation has mostly devel-
oped in the last decade.  Presently there are about 350 individually operated
pumps irrigating about 4,000 ha. The spread of pump irrigation has largely
been confined to a central area within the Wadi's alluvial Plain (Map IBRD
14320), where, due to relatively shallow water table, the benefits of instal-
ling the pumps are most immediate. Sand dunes form natural limits to further
expansion to the south and west. Well development in the east has not yet
extended beyond the line where the depth of water table exceeds 45 meters.



- 10 -
The areas irrigated by spate flows vary from year to year with an average of
8,000 ha per year. Of this about 800 ha receive perennial irrigation and
about 2,400 ha regular spate irrigation. In the perennially irrigated areas,
farmers plant three crops a year and receive about three irrigations per crop;
in the regular spate irrigated areas, they average about two ;-ops a year with
two irrigations per crop. The rest of the spate irrigated area receives only
one irrigation to one crop a year. Average cropping intensity for the wadi
irrigated areas is about 1.53 and for the well irrigated areas 1.66.
Population and Socio-Economic Situation
2.09      The present population of Wadi Rima is about 47,600 1/ comprising
about 7,900 households and living in about 200 villages. Of these about
25,000 persons or 3,600 households inhabit the area under spate irrigation
and would be most directly affected by the project. Like much of rural
Yemen, the area has been isolated from centers of technological and social
change due partly to the lack of roads which are to be developed under Wadi
Rima Project I. Hence productivity and incomes have remained low, living
conditions poor and rudimentary, and the social structure basically feudal.
While the mainstay of the economy has been agriculture oriented to subsistence
production, there has also always been complex organization of division of
labor, of capitalization in land and livestock, and of exchange of commodities
within the area and outside. The social structure is also far from simple,
and is basically ordered around tribes, of which there are three major group-
ings in the area and, has a marked social stratification by class with non-
tribesmen forming the lowest class of landless workers. The tribal leaders,
Sheiks, provide political, legal and social leadership and there are a number
of offices for special functions which are particularly important for organiz-
ing the operation and maintenance of the irrigation works.
2.10      However, the forces of change brought by the national administra-
tion, improved communication and, most importantly, increased emigration have
begun to break down the old order. In 1975, about 1,360 men or 20% of adult
males of the spate area were working abroad; taking account of the increase in
emigration, corresponding figures for the present would be 2,800 or 38%. This
implies that perhaps about 75% of the families have a member working abroad.
This has not only raised incomes through remittances and through higher local
wages but has also had far-reaching impact on the area: landless people were
freed from dependence on the local land owners and thus from their subservient
social status; inflow of remittances led people to seek opportunities for
investment in agriculture such as mechanization and wells; increased incomes
enlarged the market for higher value foods such as vegetables; migration of
men left women to do more of the agricultural and other work and also to take
a more prominent role in family life.
1/   1979, based on 1975 census showing population of 44,000.  Increase
assumed at 2% p.a.



- 11 -
C. Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.11      Owing to a lack of a cadastral survey, an agricultural census or a
systematic land registry, there are no comprehensive data on the land tenure
situation in Wadi Rima. However, data from sample surveys done by ODM and
field enquiries by Bank missions provide clear indications of the general
pattern. Farm size (operational unit) is limited to what a family can farm,
with some hired labor and using non-mechanized technology, and the average is
3.2 ha and ranges from less than 1 ha to 10 ha as shown below.
Table 2.1: DISTRIBUTION OF FARM SIZE
(Operational Unit)
Size of Unit                  Number              Percentage
(ha)                                              M
0.1 - 2.5                        500                 20
2.6 - 5.0                        825                 33
5.1 - 7.5                      1,000                 40
7.6 - 10.0                       175                  7
10 & over                         -                  _
Total                          2,500                100
With respect to ownership, most of the properties appear to be on the small
or medium scale, mostly less than about 30 ha, and only two are known to be
over 250 ha. This contrasts with the other Wadis of the Tihama, where a few
families tend to control most of the land. Nonetheless, there are two large
properties, one owned by the state at Al Jarubah (1,900 ha) which formerly
belonged to the ruler (Imam) and another (1,800 ha) which belongs to various
branches of a prominent local family. These together cover 46% of the spate
irrigated area and are mostly farmed under sharecropping arrangements. There
is also a large number of landless families who are either tenants or farm
laborers, estimated to make up about 40-50% of the families. It is estimated
that the area population is distributed as follows:
Table 2.2: POPULATION DISTRIBUTION IN SPATE IRRIGATED AREA
Number         %
Owner operators                                1,340         37
Owner operators/tenants                          670         19
Tenants - at Al Jarubah                          260          7
- elsewhere                             230          6
Total farmers (holdings)                       2,500         69
Other - landless laborers, subtenants          1,100         31
Total households                               3,600        100



- 12 -
2.12      About half of the area is estimated to be exploited under share-
cropping arrangements, the rest by owner-operators. Sharecropping is not
only important on properties too large to be farmed by a single family, but
also to accommodate fragmentation of holdings and emigration. Thus many
families operate both their own land and that of the neighbor or a relative
and may also let out their more distant plots. Thus a sample survey showed
that while 40% of farms were worked by sharecroppers, only 10% were entirely
sharecropped, and the rest (30%) were under mixed operation. By tradition,
tenancy rights have been secure, usually passing from father to son such that
many tenants have subleased their rights. Traditional sharecropping rules are
to divide the crop equally between the tenant and landlord after deduction of
taxes and the share of the harvestor for grains. Tenants provide labor and
other inputs. While these are the rules, there is a great deal of flexibility
in their application, depending on special arrangements made by each party.
Thus it is customary that the tenant's share is effectively one third rather
than one half because the landlord pays for major repair of irrigation works,
which is to be covered by the additional third of the share. On the Al Jaruba
farm, the rule of division by half is more strictly followed and the Govern-
ment's farm management also provide some machinery services, inputs and repair
of the irrigation structures. There is also flexibility to meet different
conditions of supply and demand for land and labor and the recent increase in
emigration has tended to increase the share of tenants. The Government has
also recently issued a religious edict requiring land owners to share produc-
tion costs in proportion to their crop shares. This has been applied but not
universally throughout rural Yemen (para. 1.08).
D. Infrastructure
Roads
2.13      Except for the one tarmac road connecting Hodeidah with Taiz, which
bisects the area from north to south, no roads exist in the area. During the
dry season some earth tracks and dry canal beds are used by vehicular traffic
for haulage of goods to and from the villages but in the wet season access to
interior areas becomes very difficult and hazardous. To provide proper access
to the important population centers in the area and facilitate the movement of
agricultural inputs and produce, 106 km of gravel access roads connected to
the Hodeidah Taiz Road would be constructed under first Wadi Rima Project.
Water Supply
2.14      Domestic water is mostly obtained from communally owned open wells
though, where available, water is also taken from irrigation channels and
wadi flows. Water collection is an arduous process. A typical family of six
spends about five manhours a day queuing, drawing and transporting water for
themselves and their livestock. The water consumed is often inadequate in
quantity and unhygienic in quality. Provision for supply of adequate and
wholesome drinking water to the rural population in the project area has been
made under the first Wadi Rima project (Tihama Development Project II).



- 13 -
Local Institutions
2.15      The Tihama Development Authority (TDA) is responsible for developing
agriculture in Tihama. It has nearly completed the Tihama Development Project
I in the neighboring Wadi Zabid and has embarked upon the implementation of
the second and third Tihama Development projects. The Tihama farmers are
already directly or indirectly gaining from TDA's experimental programs on
variety trials and improved-agronomic practices. Local Development Associa-
tions (LDA's) are the other important local institutions working for the
development of Wadi Rima and the adjacent areas. These institutions have
grass root origins in community self-help groups which raise funds to finance
small local development projects like construction of primary schools, minor
access tracks, health facilities and water supply schemes for individual vil-
lages. They receive cooperative tax at 2.5% of the agricultural produce in
the area; a share from Zakat (a religious tithe) and, contributions from mem-
bers for financing their activities. There are presently two LDA's in the
project area. These associations are in their infancy and are handicapped
by the absence of technical expertise on their staff. They have so far
constructed six primary schools in the project area.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Design Features
Objectives
3.01      The project objectives are to:  (i) increase agricultural production
and farm income in the Wadi Rima area, through optimal use of the wadi flows,
(ii) initiate a pilot experimental program of sand stabilization to prevent
deterioration of cultivated lands bordering the sand dunes, (iii) through
definition of the social factors which constrain development of the rural
life of the project area, develop a pilot program of rural uplift, working if
possible with the Local Development Associations (LDAs) and (iv) improve
knowledge of Tihama's water resources.
Description
3.02      The project includes:
(i) irrigation works comprising: (a) construction of a diversion
weir, a syphon and three off-take structures in Wadi Rima;
(b) improving capacity of the north bank Hudayd Canal in its
head reach and constructing a supply canal along the south
bank of the wadi; (c) remodelling existing primary canals in
their head reaches where deep erosion hampers their irriga-
tion capability; and (d) providing turnouts and check struc-
tures in primary and secondary canals to improve their command;
(ii) a pilot sand stabilization program, incorporating plantation
belts covering an area of about 800 ha;



- 14 -
(iii) to develop and test a pilot program of rural uplift focussed
particularly on home economics extension and basic health/
nutrition education.
(iv) project management including technical assistance and opera-
tion and maintenance equipment.
(v) water resources assessment study.
Detailed Features
Irrigation Works
3.03      Optimum utilization of the available surface water resource is
necessary to maximize the benefits from the agricultural extension, credit
and research program being implemented for agricultural improvement in Wadi
Rima under the first Wadi Rima Project. Permanent structures are therefore,
required to divert the wadi flows into the existing irrigation canals which
will be remodelled to improve their command and operational efficiency. To
achieve this the following works will be constructed: (a) a permanent diver-
sion weir and canal regulator at Mishrafa; (b) a syphon about 4.5 km down-
stream of Mishrafa; (c) a supply canal along the south bank of the wadi; and
(d) three direct off-take structures from the wadi; one for the south bank
supply canal and two for Al-Mutarid and the other lower canals. In addition
the existing primary canals will be remodelled in the reaches where their
present command is deficient and, provided with drops and turnout structures
to improve their operational efficiency. Check structures and turnouts shall
also be provided on secondary canals in reaches of deficient command. The
salient design features of the works are in Annex 1.
Sand Stabilization
3.04      The coastal belt of the Tihama is characterized by several dune
fields, partly stable and partly comprising moving sand. An insidious threat
to farm land is posed by the surface deposition of wind blown sand which, as
it accumulates and is incorporated in the fields by ploughing, progressingly
changes the character of the soil.  Apart from the damage to the soil, the
mechanical damage by blown sand also reduces crop yields. Some cultivated
lands in Wadi Rima, particularly the well irrigated lands to the west of Taiz-
Hodeidah road are being thus affected. The dune problem of Tihama being of
substantial proportion the Government is keen to initiate a pilot sand stabi-
lization project in Wadi Rima to demonstrate its practicability and value
and, to provide training for staff who can continue and expand the work. The
stabilization of sand dunes throughout the Tihama would benefit all seven main
wadis by reducing soil and crop damage and providing house-building materials,
firewood for the rural population, as well as indirectly benefitting livestock
production by making more crop residues available for feeding.
3.05      The sand stabilization program incorporating shelter belt plantation
proposed over an area of about 800 ha would run for four years under the
technical guidance of a specialist recruited for the task. Priority would be
given to the treatment of those areas where the greatest effect could be
achieved in protecting cultivated lands. These areas are listed in Annex 1



- 15-
and shown on Map IBRD 14320. A fenced forest nursery will be established at
Al-Jarubah or Husayniah where Government land is available with irrigation
facility. Shelter belts will be planted in designated areas and fenced where
required. The species used will depend upon the conditions in the areas to be
planted. As described in Annex 1, experience gained in similar areas in other
countries will be utilized for sand stabilization. The project will provide
for the services of an arid zone forestry specialist, 24 man-months of over-
seas training for foresters in job related disciplines, a fenced nursery, an
office cum store, two tubewells, transport and water equipment and operational
expenses for implementing the program.
Rural Uplift
3.06      The general standard of living is extremely low in Wadi Rima like in
much of rural Yemen, as there has been virtually no access to modern facili-
ties until recently. This is shown by national indicators such as the high
child mortality rate of 31 per thousand, low life expectancy of 47 years,
adult literacy rate of 13%, and school enrollment rate of 26% for primary
school age children (6 to 11 years). While these are averages for the country
as a whole, standards in rural areas are even worse. Factors such as poor
education, health, nutrition, etc. are as important aspects of poverty of the
people as low income. They also contribute to low agricultural productivity
and constrain development. So far, TDA's activities in rural development,
other than those directly aimed at increasing agricultural production, have
been limited to installing potable water supplies and road construction. The
project would define and elaborate ways to expand TDA's activities to further
improve the quality of life in rural areas. It would provide for the services
of a specialist and a counterpart (whose terms of reference would be agreed
with IDA by March 31, 1980), an audio-visual mobile unit, transport and other
equipment for developing a pilot program of activities, after assessing the
peoples' needs and the activities and responsibilities of other institutions,
particularly LDA's. Special attention will be given to possibilities for
home economics extension program including subjects such as health education,
nutrition, hygiene, food storage and processing, care of domestic animals,
etc. The pilot program would be submitted to IDA for review before being
implemented to test what would be feasible in the context of rural Yemen
(Annex 2). An assurance was obtained during negotiations that terms of
reference for the consultant and his counterpart would be agreed with IDA by
March 31, 1980 and the draft program would be submitted to IDA not later than
September 30, 1981 and agreed prior to implementation.
Project Staff Housing
3.07      About eight additional houses will be required in TDA's staff camp
near Zabid town to provide accommodation to the project consultants and other
staff. The existing utility systems of the staff camp would also be extended
to provide services to the new buildings. The buildings will either be cement
block construction with timber or concrete roofing or precast structures not
susceptible to damage from weather or termites.



- 16 -
Project Management Including Technical Assistance
3.08      The project provides for staff and equipment for project management,
including equipment for the cadastral survey of the project area to be under-
taken in conne_tion with improving the cost recovery system. A consultants
firm (about 84 man-months) will be engaged under the project for assisting TDA
in the design, procurement and construction surveillance of the works included
in the project which would be financed by the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The
project will also provide for services of an arid zone forestry specialist (36
man-months) to be recruited by June 30, 1980, a water regulation specialist
(6 man-months) to be recruited by September 30, 1980, and a rural uplift
specialist (36 man-months) to be recruited by June 30, 1980, and overseas
training (24 man-months) of Yemeni foresters. Training of extension agents
for Wadi Rima has already been provided under Tihama II (Wadi Rima I) (para.
4.03). Expatriate staff will also be hired under the project for filling
intermediate grade posts of assistant engineers and field inspectors etc.,
until such time as Yemeni staff are available to fill the posts. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that the forestry, water regulation and rural
uplift specialists would be recruited by June 30, September 30 and June 30,
1980 respectively.
Water Resources Assessment Study
3.09      Water is the major limiting factor for agricultural development in
the Tihama Coastal Plain. An accurate assessment of its potential is there-
fore essential to determine the boundaries of agricultural development in this
area. Some work to establish the surface and ground water potential of some
of the Tihama wadis has already been done as a part of each wadi's development
program. This is, however, insufficient to establish an overall picture of
the water resources of the coastal plain. The Government, therefore, proposes
to employ a firm of consultants to: (i) review the work already done and up-
date the preliminary estimates of water potential of the wadis for which some
data has already been collected; and missing data can be extrapolated; (ii)
extend the existing network of meteorological, rain gauge and stream gauging
stations to provide data for long-term assessment of surface water potential
and seepage losses of the wadis; and (iii) to identify the need and scope of
geophysical surveys, site drilling and testing, and observational programs
required for the assessment of the aquifer potential of the coastal plain.
The consultants will also assist the Tihama Development Authority in selecting
sites, procuring equipment and installing meteorological and gauging stations,
and in training the counterpart staff for operation and record keeping of the
established stations. For this purpose, the project will provide for about
thirty man-months of consultancy services and procuring and installing required
equipment.
Engineering Status
3.10      The engineering requirements of the project involve the designs of
the diversion structure, syphon and canals and their appurtenant works, and
the design of the staff housing. Field surveys and hydraulic designs of the
diversion weir, syphon and supply canals have been completed by the consul-
tants, provided to TDA under bilateral assistance to the Government by the
Kingdom of the Netherlands, and the preparation of drawings required for



- 17 -
tender documents is well underway. Type designs for the drop and turnout
structures for the primary and secondary canals have also been made. Judging
from the progress so far achieved, TDA would be able to float the contract
for irrigation works between March and June, 1980. The buildings for staff
accommodation will follow the type designs of similar buildings constructed
under Tihama Development Projects I and II (Wadi Zabid and Wadi Rima I). The
detailed drawings of the works, including reinforcement drawings, required
during the construction period would be prepared in the field design office
for which the consultants would provide the services of an experienced design
engineer.
Water Demand and Supply
3.11      With the project, during an average year, 10,200 ha of crops which
includes double cropping on 2,200 ha, would be raised in the project area from
surface (spate) irrigation. Their net surface water requirement would be
about 49 Mm3. As described in Annex 3 adequate supplies would be available
to cater for the above requirements.
Riparian Issues
3.12      The entire catchment area and course of Wadi Rima is located within
the Yemen Arab Republic and hence no international riparian issues are in-
volved. Within the project area, however, problems exist between the north
bank and the south bank riparians and between different groups of the south
bank farmers concerning their rights to water use. Government has attempted
to solve the problems from time to time but no lasting solution acceptable to
all parties has so far been found. To achieve the contemplated benefits from
the project an even distribution of water would be essential. As has been
done in Wadi Zabid (Tihama Development Project I) and as is to be done under
the Tihama Development Project III (Wadi Mawr), the Government has agreed that
a consultant would be engaged to study the water rights situation in Wadi Rima
and recommend an equitable solution for the water distribution of the wadi's
annual flows to the various canals of the system before March 31, 1981. The
report and its recommendations would be discussed and agreed with IDA. On
completion of the project, Government would implement the agreed recommenda-
tions of the study by controlling water deliveries to the primary canals
through the Tihama Development Authority. An assurance in this respect was
obtained during negotiations. In designing the project works, independent
canal offtakes have been provided from the supply canal for each sheikdom to
avoid disagreements on distribution of canal supplies between the sheikdoms.
Implementation Schedule
3.13      The project would be implemented in about four years in accordance
with the schedule in Chart WB 20441. Project implementation would commence
between March to June 1980 and all civil works and procurement of equipment
completed by June 1983, while the sand stabilization and the rural uplift
programs would continue till June 1984. TDA would be responsible for imple-
menting the project.



- 18 -
B. Cost and Financing Arrangements
Cost Estimates
3.14      The estimated cost of the project including contingencies, based on
1979 prices, is YRls 94.1 million (US$20.8 million). Its foreign exchange
component is estimated to be YRls 52.4 million (US$11.7 million) or 56% of
project costs. The costs of imported equipment and materials reflect current
international market prices. The cost of civil works is in accordance with
the current civil works contract costs in Tihama. Consultants including their
travel and head office charges have been costed at US$6,700 per man-month.
This excludes their local transportation and residential facilities costs
equivalent of about US$1,100 per man-month which are covered by the project's
operational and housing costs. Physical contingencies have been taken as
10% on equipment and civil works. This allowance is considered to be adequate
as estimates are mostly based on the completed type designs of civil works.
Price contingencies allow for annual increases of 8% in the foreign exchange
costs and for tapering annual increases of 30%, 26%, 22% and 20% on local
costs for the project implementation period. The high local contingency rate
reflects the high rate of inflation in YAR, particularly in construction costs
and wages, experienced in recent years due to the sudden economic stimulus
generated by the steep rise in remittances. There are indications that price
increases are slowing down. Total contingencies (physical and price) are
about 39% of the base cost. Import duties, taxes and other levies are not
included in the project costs as they are not charged on goods imported for
Tihama development projects. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1, while
detailed costs of the project management, irrigation works, and stabilization
and equipment are given in Annex 4.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
---YRls Million _F ---    ----US$ Million /%
Project Management
Consultants and
engineering and
extension staff         0.5      5.2      5.7     0.1      1.2      1.3
Transport, camp,
office and exten-
sion equipment           -       1.0      1.0      -       0.2      0.2
Operational costs        1.0       -       1.0      0.2      -       0.2
Subtotal                 1.5      6.2      7.7     0.3      1.4      1.7       82
Water Resources Study  0.5        1.3      1.8      0.1     0.3      0.4       75
Irrigation Works
Diversion struc-
tures including
direct intakes          6.3    10.8    17.1        1.4     2.4      3.8
Canals construc-
tion and Rehab-
ilitation              11.0    16.5    27.5       2.4      3.7      6.1
Subtotal                17.3    27.3    44.6       3.8      6.1      9.9       62
Project Staff
Hlousing;                1.0      1.5      2.5      0.2     0.3      0.5       60
Sand Stabiliza-
tion                     4.1      3.2      7.3     0.9      0.7      1.6       44
Maintenance
Equipment                 -       3.4      3.4       -      0.8      0.8      100
Total Basic Cost        24.9    42.9    67.3        5.4     9.6    14.9        64
Contingencies
Physical                 2.3      3.6      5.8      0.5     0.8      1.3
Price                   15.0      5.9    20.9       3.3     1.3      4.6
Total                   41.7    52.4    91.4        9.1    11.7    20.8        56
=lr u
_1   All figures rounded.



- 20 -
3.15      An IDA Credit of US$5.5 million on standard terms would finance
about 47% of the project's foreign costs or about 27% of the total costs.
To provide for the services of engineering consultants for the project, the
Kingdom of Netherlands under bilateral assistance to the Yemen Government
is expected to finance US$0.70 million or about 6% of the foreign costs
which is 3% of the total cost. The Government of YAR would finance US$9.1
million equivalent local costs or about 44% of the total costs. The remaining
foreign exchange cost of US$5.5 million or 47% of the foreign costs which is
27% of the total costs would be provided by other cofinanciers. The financing
plan is summarized below:
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Other
Kingdom of/1        External
Government  Netherlands    IDA  Financing
----------------US$ Million--------------
Project Management
Design Consultants                                      0.7
Other Costs (including foreign
experts)                                  0.6                     0.9
Water Resources Study                      0.1                      0.3
Irrigation Works
Diversion Weir, Syphon
and Direct Offtakes                      2.4                      3.0
Canals Construction and
Rehabilitation                            4.1                              4.6
Project Staff Housing                      0.3                      0.4
Sand Stabilization                         1.6                              0.9
Maintenance Equipment                                              0.9
Total                                      9.1          0.7        5.5      5.5
/1   All figures rounded.
Signing by the Government of financing agreement(s), with other external
source(s) for an amount of about US$5.5 million equivalent would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of IDA Credit and the failure of this agreement to
become effective by December 31, 1980 would be grounds for cancellation of the
IDA Credit.



- 21 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.16      The civil works included in the IDA-financed components of the
project would comprise irrigation works (diversion weir, syphon and direct
offtakes from the wadi) and the project staff housing and would cost about
US$6.1 million. The work of constructing staff housing being small in size
(US$0.7 million) would not be suitable for international competitive bidding
and would be constructed using Government's local procurement procedures
which are competitive and acceptable. The procurement of irrigation works
(US$5.4 million) and all of the IDA-financed equipment (US$1.3 million)
would be done through international bidding in accordance with "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits" except for some minor
equipment items, costing less than US$100,000 each required for immediate use
whose aggregate value would not exceed US$400,000, which would be procured
through the Government's local procurement procedure of competitive bidding.
A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is less
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids under ICB.
Assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. The expatriate
project staff other than counterpart staff would be recruited internationally
and during negotiations assurance was obtained that the qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment of all expatriate staff
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and IDA. All procurement would be
performed by TDA. For items financed by other external sources, procurement
will be in accordance with their rules.
IDA Disbursement
3.17      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against IDA financed
components of the project as follows:
Civil Works
US$3.4 million                     55%
Equipment and Goods
US$1.3 million                     100% of foreign expenditures of
directly imported items, 80% of
expenditures for imported items
procured locally and 100% of ex-
factory cost of locally manu-
facture items.
Foreign Experts
US$0.8 million                     100%
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation. Estimated
schedule of disbursements is in Table 3.3 and schedule of annual expenditure
in Annex 4, Table 2.



- 22 -
Table 3.3: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative disbursement
at end of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year                                                        Other
and Quarters                                          IDA CrediE  Cofinancier
-----US$ Millions------
1979/80
June 30, 1980                                               0.1         0.1
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                          0.2         0.2
December 31, 1980                                           0.4         0.3
March 31, 1981                                              0.6         0.5
June 30, 1981                                               0.9         0.7
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                          1.3         1.1
December 31, 1981                                           1.9         1.6
March 31, 1982                                              2.4         2.1
June 30, 1982                                               2.9         2.6
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                          3.4         3.1
December 31, 1982                                           3.9         3.7
March 31, 1983                                              4.4         4.3
June 30, 1983                                               4.8         4.9
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                          5.1         5.1
December 31, 1983                                           5.3         5.3
March 31, 1984                                              5.4         5.4
June 30, 1984                                               5.5         5.5
D. Accounting
Accounts and Audit
3.18      Following agreed practice under previous Tihama development proj-
ects, TDA would maintain separate accounts for the project which would be
subject to regular internal audits, and also annual audits carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that:  (a) separate accounts would be maintained for project funds by
the executing agency which would have regular internal audit and would, in
addition, be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) a
copy of such annual audit reports would be sent to IDA within four months of
the close of each fiscal year.



- 23 -
E. Environmental Impact
3.19      The project will have no adverse effects on the physical environ-
ment. On the other hand, increased production of vegetables would help
improve the nutrition and health of the population. Although plant pro-
tection chemicals would be used, no adverse effects are expected. Their use
will be based on applied research recommendations and extension demonstration
trials. The extension agents would be trained by the project experts on the
safe handling and use of plant protection chemicals.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization and Staffing
4.01      TDA, assisted by a firm of consulting engineers and, experts in soil
stabilization, rural uplift and agriculture would implement the project. TDA
was created by the Government of Yemen Arab Republic as a semi-autonomous body
through the enactment of Law No. 2 of 1973 to operate as a developmental
agency for the Tihama region with all necessary power for project implementa-
tion. TDA has a board of directors whose chairman and members are appointed
by the Government. The chairman of the board is also the general manager of
TDA. He is assisted by a deputy director general, a management advisor and a
financial expert. Posts of three directors have also been provided in the
Authority to assist the chairman in operating the engineering, agricultural
and administrative departments. The staff required for implementing the
Tihama Development Project IV (Wadi Rima II) would be attached to the respec-
tive departments (Chart WB 20440).  Because of paucity of trained personnel
in YAR, it would not be possible in the immediate future to fill the senior
posts of the Wadi Rima implementation unit with experienced Yemeni personnel.
Consequently, such positions would be filled, in the first instance, by expa-
triate staff as has occurred without difficulty under the Tihama I Project
(Wadi Zabid), which will be completed by the end of 1979. Similarly no diffi-
culties are expected in TDA recruiting expatriates until such time as Yemeni
Nationals are available because of Government's policy in this regard. It is
expected that expatriates will be needed in the majority of these posts for at
least four years. These staff, in addition to implementing the project, would
train their counterparts as they become available and, junior Yemeni staff.
These latter would, on completion of development, assume responsibility in
their respective fields for operation and maintenance of the project. Assur-
ance was obtained during negotiations that appointment of senior personnel
needed to implement the project would be completed by June 30, 1980 and the
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of non-
Yemeni nationals would be satisfactory to the Government and IDA.



- 24 -
Engineering Services
4.02      A firm of consulting engineers was employed by the Government under
bilateral assistance from the Kingdom of the Netherlands for preparing the
feasibility study of the irrigation component of the project. Their contract
would be extended by the Government for organizing procurement, preparing
construction drawings, checking layouts, supervising execution, verifying the
work performed and certifying payments due for all works included in the
project. Manpower requirements of the engineering consultants and the other
staff are in Annex 4, Table 3.
B. Agricultural Services
General
4.03      Agricultural services required for Wadi Rima have been provided
under Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I) and include an extension
expert, a plant protection expert, and a veterinarian for animal health con-
trol. Arrangements for training two groups of extension agents, comprising
thirty candidates each has also been made. Forty of the trained graduates
will be employed in the project area for implementing applied agricultural
research and extension programs formulated by the project experts and the
experts from the UNDP Agricultural Research and Institutional Support project
which is also financed under Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I).
Extension Centers and Facilities
4.04      A total of seven extension centers will be established in the proj-
ect area. Each center will be staffed with three extension agents. With the
change in cropping pattern resulting from improvement in irrigation, more
emphasis will be given on introducing high value crops. The extension centers
and agents would cover an area of 8,000 ha under spate irrigation and 4,000
ha under well irrigation with an average of about 1,700 ha/center and 570 ha/
extension agent. By holding periodic meetings with the farmers, the extension
staff would help in maximizing farmers' awareness of irrigation improvement
and ushering in envisaged changes in the cropping pattern for raising higher
value crops. Provision for extension equipment including a cinema van was
made under the Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I). To facilitate
maintenance of agricultural machinery being introduced in the area for land
preparation (tractors), pesticide application (sprayers), and pumps (irriga-
tion and village water supply), a mobile maintenance service unit would be
provided under this project. TDA's administration would operate the service
and supervise its accounts to assure its self-financing. Depending on the
success of the mobile maintenance unit in Wadi Rima, similar units can be
introduced in other projects, possibly through the private sector. Results of
the farm mechanization study under the first Wadi Rima project would be used
in assessing Tihama's future needs for agricultural machinery.



- 25 -
Applied Research
4.05      Research recommendations obtained from field verification trials in
nearby Wadi Zabid would be applied in extension and comparative demonstration
fields of pilot farmers in Wadi Rima. Cooperation between extension staff and
experts of the Agricultural Research Service, will be ensured by the Govern-
ment for technical backstopping of the extension agents, through the adminis-
trative arrangements between TDA and the agricultural research services of
the Ministry of Agriculture presently funded by a UNDP project for which the
Bank is Executing Agent, which latter project is being partially financed by
the Bank under the Tihama II (Wadi Rima I) Project. These efforts would
be enhanced after the establishment of the regional agricultural research
station for Tihama at Surdud under Tihama Development Project III (Wadi Mawr).
The two demonstration farms at Al-Jaruba and Al-Hasayniyah, established under
first Wadi Rima Project for spate and well irrigation respectively, would
serve as the focal points for testing applied research recommendations in Wadi
Rima prior to their dissimination among farmers in the project area.
Short-term Consultants and Training
4.06      Short-term consultancy for six studies totalling 30 man/months in
the areas of: (a) sharecropping arrangements; (b) banana production; (c) date
palm production; (d) farm mechanization; (e) fruits and vegetable marketing;
and (f) base-line data collecting; were included in the first Wadi Rima
projects (para. 4.03). The sharecropping arrangement study is currently being
prepared by the Economic Commission of West Asia (ECWA). The results of the
studies will be used by TDA for ensuring envisaged development under Tihama
Projects. Funds for 100 man-months of overseas training for extension agents
and counterparts in job related discipline were included in the first Wadi
Rima Project (Tihama Development Project II). Their program will also include
training in field irrigation systems and crop irrigation water requirements to
enable them to educate the farmers in these disciplines.
Agricultural Credit
4.07      The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), which also is the credit channel
for all five IDA agricultural projects in YAR, would be responsible for the
credit aspects in Wadi Rima as envisaged under Tihama Development Project II
(Wadi Rima I). Specifically, the ACB's office in Zabid would be directly
involved. The jurisdiction of this office has already been extended to Wadi
Rima and its staff augmented by an expatriate field manager and two additional
supervisors and necessary support staff under the first Wadi Rima Project.
In addition to the normal credit activities, for which funds have been pro-
vided under the first Wadi Rima Project, ACB, assisted by TDA, would arrange
for procurement of the farm inputs which it would provide to farmers through
village agents at predetermined prices in keeping with the provisions of the
first Wadi Rima Project. As custodians of the inputs they would be responsible
for their proper storage and accountable for all supplies, their distribution
and collection of cash.



- 26 -
4.08      Lending procedures, which are well established under all existing
IDA financed projects in YAR, have been generally satisfactory. However,
recent developments in YAR, particularly in the Tihama, are tending to
restrict farmers' credit because of collateral requirements. Under its
present regulations, ACB requires land collateral except for short term loans
of up to YRis 10,000 which can be secured by co-signatures or movable assets.
In practice, tenants are generally required to provide a lease for three years
from the landlord. Owing to increasing shortage of agricultural labor over
the last few years, mechanization is being introduced in project areas and
there has been a rapid increase in demand for machinery credit. The land
collateral requirement restricts such credit to only landowners, who are a
wealthier group in the population. These requirements, besides having a nega-
tive impact on income distribution, also restrict tenant farmers from taking
up improved agricultural practices, since by tradition they must provide all
inputs and labor, although a recent religious edict has urged landlords to
share in production costs. To allow for a more open access to credit, assur-
ance was obtained during negotiations that by December 31, 1980 ACB would
raise the limit of loans which can be secured by co-signature to YRls 20,000
and that it would accept the machinery financed, as collateral to medium term
credit. In order to safeguard this machinery collateral, the project would
provide a mobile machinery maintenance service in the project area for routine
maintenance of agricultural machinery (para. 4.04).
4.09      The sand stabilization operations will be conducted under the
guidance and supervision of a sand stabilization/arid zone forestry expert
to be recruited under the project. He will be assisted by two counterparts
(forestry technicians) and six forest guards in implementing the program,
an outline of which is described in Annex 1.
C. Operation and Maintenance
Irrigation Works
4.10      The irrigation works, after their construction, would be maintained
and operated by TDA. The consulting engineers would train TDA's local staff
in the required maintenance techniques, write the regulation rules for the
operation of the sluiceway, canal head regulators and the structures on the
canals and train the regulation staff in the manipulation of the spillway and
the regulator gates. A continuous record of the gauges and the hydrographs
of the Wadi and canal flows will be maintained by TDA to ensure equitable
distribution of the available flows to the project's irrigation system.
Soundings will be taken downstream of the weirs after each large flood to
locate any settlement of the protective aprons and, the structures inspected
thoroughly after each flood season for any required repairs. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that TDA will take periodic soundings down-
stream of the structures and perform annual inspection immediately following
the flood season and undertake repairs to any damage which may be detected
before the onset of the next flood season.



- 27 -
Sand Stabilization
4.11      The Government would require TDA to maintain and exploit the produce
of the plantations established for sand stabilization work until the work is
absorbed inma broader framework for sand stabilization or arid zone forestry
under a different organization of the Government. Equipment and funds for
maintaining the plantations during the project implementation period have been
provided under the project. An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that TDA would adequately maintain the plantations until such times as they
are transferred from TDA to some other organization such as a forestry unit,
yet to be developed, in the Ministry of Agriculture and/or LDA's. Alterna-
tively, under its charter, the Minister of Agriculture could charge TDA with
administering such a program throughout the Tihama.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.12      During and following project implementation TDA would monitor
progress on project construction and in achieving project objectives of
developing agricultural technology and raising incomes. It would utilize the
services of the monitoring unit established within TDA under Tihama Develop-
ment Project III (Wadi Mawr) to collect data, not routinely assembled by TDA
management, placing special emphasis upon monitoring the distribution of
project benefits and changes in nutrition among the area population. TDA
would also be required to prepare quarterly progress reports in a format
satisfactory to Government and IDA. The progress reports would be submitted
to the Government and copied to IDA quarterly during project implementation
and annually, thereafter, for the next three years. In addition, TDA would
prepare a completion report and submit this report to IDA within six months
of the closing date of the project. An assurance was obtained during negotia-
tions that TDA would monitor the project progress and impact of development
on Wadi Rima and prepare and submit the above said reports during and after
the project implementation.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Present Land Use and Crop Distribution
5.01      The spate irrigated area (8,000 ha) is presently cropped predominantly
with coarse grains (white sorghum, red sorghum, maize and millet) sesame and
cotton. Other crops grown in well-irrigated areas include vegetables, bananas,
papayas and tobacco (4,000 ha). Bananas were grown in Wadi Rima, particularly
along its course above Mishrafa, until the incidence of fruit spotting disease
discouraged their growth. The banana production study financed under Wadi
Rima Project I (Tihama Development Project II) would identify the causal agent
and provide control measures to enable the planting of new banana orchards.



- 28 -
Improved irrigation practices under the project would encourage banana produc-
tion in the project area. About 6,200 ha of coarse grains are cultivated
under rainfed conditions outside the spate irrigated area. There are also
about 1,000 ha of date plantations in the western area of the project.
B. Development Constraints in Wadi Rima
5.02      Limited irrigated water and lack of water conservation practices is
one of the major constraints in developing Wadi Rima. Annual maintenance of
the temporary dikes used in diverting spate water is becoming increasingly
difficult due to the shortage of labor. Consequently, the supply of irriga-
tion water does not depend only on the amount of rainfall in the catchment
area but also on the success of diversion arrangements which often prove in-
adequate. Other major constraints that generally prevail in YAR include the
lack of effective agricultural institutions, less developed agricultural
technology and infrastructure, non-availability of modern farm inputs and an
outmoded crop cost sharing arrangement between landowners and tenants.
5.03      Improvement of the irrigation system (proposed under the project)
combined with the needed infrastructure, extension, credit, farm inputs and
effective institution building provided under the Tihama Development Project
II (Wadi Rima I) will provide adequate conditions for agricultural development
in Wadi Rima.  Encouraging results obtained under Tihama Development Project I
(Wadi Zabid) will prompt the farmers in Wadi Rima to be receptive of envisaged
changes in irrigation and agricultural practices.
C. Present and Future Area and Yields
5.04      According to the ODM preparation report, presently cropped area
under spate irrigation in Wadi Rima is about 12,240 ha including double
cropping of about 4,240 ha. Due to limited water resources of the wadi, its
low conveyance efficiency and inadequate diversion structures and canals,
most of the cropped area is inadequately watered. With the improved system of
irrigation it would be possible to exercise better distribution control-on the
available water and to introduce higher value crops, especially in the peren-
nially irrigated areas, in partial replacement of the traditional crops. With
availability of credit and farm inputs, establishment of extension, and con-
struction of needed infrastructure; the change in cropping patterns will be
feasible leading to a decrease in sorghum area (white and red) and introduc-
tion of higher value crops like watermelons, sweetmelons, onions, bananas
and papayas. This would lead to a decrease in area double-cropped to 2,200
ha. The prevalence of termites in the Tihama deserves special attention in
pesticide control measures and research efforts are devoting concentrated
attention to this problem. The following table indicates the projected change
in cropping patterns in spate irrigated areas for various crops.



- 29 -
Table 5.1: PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROP AREA WITH SPATE IRRIGATION
Present and Future         Future
Crop                                        Without Project        With Project
(ha)                 (ha)
Sorghum (white)                                   5,300                3,700
Sorghum (red)                                     2,580                1,500
Maize                                             1,990                2,000
Millet                                            1,410                1,000
Cotton                                              510                  500
Sesame                                              450                  600
Watermelons                                         _                    300
Sweetmelons                                         -                    250
Onions                                              -                    200
Bananas                                             -                     75
Papayas                                             -                     75
Total Cropped Area                               12,240               10.200
5.05      The fruit and vegetable marketing study provided under Tihama
Development Project II (Wadi Rima I) would take into consideration envisaged
increases in production, prices, and marketing prospects and would make
recommendations to maximize benefits for producers and consumers. The
increased flow of remittances is changing consumers' preferences. Demand for
fruits and vegetables is increasing, especially for fresh produce is increas-
ing resulting in their increased import (para. 1.08). The project will help
to substitute a part of the fresh fruit and vegetable imports with local
produce.
5.06      Sorghum is the predominant crop in YAR and in the Tihama Plains.
Local cultivars selected for many generations are the main ones and new cul-
tivars have been introduced on an experimental basis with the establishment
of the Wadi Zabid Agricultural Research farm. Sorghum grain is important to
the subsistence of the Yemeni farmer and the stover is the principal feed for
his livestock. Dried stover stubs are also used as a source of fuel. Con-
sequently, no plant residues are left to replenish the soil's organic matter
content and the relatively high temperature in the Tihama contributes to-
further dissipation of organic matter.
5.07      Results of applied agricultural research programs undertaken at the
Zabid experimental farm point to the great potential in improving yield levels
in the Tihama. Deposited silt as a result of spate irrigation contributes to
the replenishment of soil fertility. Research results using modern crop pro-
duction techniques, farm inputs, and introduction of high yielding cultivars
in research verification trials and extension demonstrations in farmers'
fields are indicative of the untapped potential in improving yield levels.
Several high yielding cultivars, e.g. sorghum "Kadam El- Hamam", maize "Tihama
I composite" and "Tihama II composite", millet "Dokhn Tihama", and cotton "Coker
310", have been introduced successfully in the area. The maize composites have
gained farmers' acceptance. To satisfy envisaged seed requirements for the
area, seed multiplication programs have started at Surdud farm (Wadi Surdud).



- 30 -
5.08      Farmers in Wadi Rima are presently growing fruit and vegetable crops
in well irrigated areas. Some of the farmers have successfuly tried them also
along the wadi course in spate irrigated areas. Therefore, the assured avail-
ability of irrigation water as a result of the proposed irrigation improvement
would lead farmers to introduce growing high value crops on a commercial scale,
especially in perennially irrigated areas. The establishment of a regional
agricultural research station for Tihama in Wadi Surdud in combination with
technical backstopping from the Agricultural Research Service Project will pro-
vide needed crop production recommendations aiming to maximize farmers' income.
5.09      The following table shows present and future yield levels for the
main crops at full development through the introduction of extension, farm
inputs, credit, research and extension results, adequate infrastructure, and
an improved irrigation system.
Table 5.2:  PRESENT AND FUTURE YIELD LEVELS IN SPATE IRRIGATED AREAS /1
Future                  Future
Crop                              Present      Without ProJect /2       With Project
------------------ kg/ha-----------------------
Sorghum (white)
grain                             1,112            1,529                    1,751
stover                           13,900           20,850                  22,240
Ratoon (white sorghum)
grain                               556               765                     876
stover                            6,950           10,425                   11,120
Sorghum (red)
grain                               834            1,390                    1,599
stover                           11,120           18,070                   19,460
Maize
grain                             1,390            3,058                   3,517
stover                            9,730           15,290                   16,680
Millet
grain                               765            1,168                    1,348
stover                           15,290           22,240                  23,630
Cotton (seed cotton)               1,112            2,363                    2,641
Sesame                               695            1,251                    1,321
Watermelons                          -                  -                   16,680
Sweetmelons                          -                  -                  18,070
Onions                               -                  -                   16,680
Bananas /3
1st year                            -                 -                    7,784
2nd year                            -                 -                    8,896
3rd year                            -                 -                    9,452
Papayas
1 year                              -                 -                   12,510
2nd year                            -                 -                   36,140
/1   Yields are calculated from a small unit of area, the maad, which is equiv-
alent to 0.36 ha and future yields are at full development after year ten.
/2   Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I) at full development (10th year).
/3   Orchards not infected with fruit spotting disease.



- 31 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
A. Projected Volumes of Production
6.01      A substantial shift in the composition of agricultural production
would result from the project. Under Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima
I), increases in yields were anticipated but no change in the cropping pattern
was thought possible without improvement in irrigation techniques. By rehab-
ilitating the irrigation system, the project would permit a more rational allo-
cation of water leading to a further increase in all crop yields and introduc-
tion of fruits and vegetables, though total cropped area will be reduced due
to elimination of under-watering of crops and introduction of crops requiring
higher water consumption. Thus in comparison with the present, output of all
crops would increase. However, when compared with the future without project
situation (with Tihama Development Project II, Wadi Rima I) the cultivated
area and total production of sorghum and millet would decline. This is shown
below.
Table 6.1: AREA AND VOLUME OF PRODUCTION
Incremental
Future               Production
Without 1         With         Due to
Wihot1              /2
Present        Project-         Project-       Project
ha     tons    ha      tons      ha     tons      tons
Grains
Sorghum White         5,300   8,841  5,300  11,467   3,700   9,718    -1,749
Sorghum Red           2,580   2,152  2,580   3,208   1,500   2,398          -810
Maize                 1,990   2,766  1,990   5,935   2,000   7,034         1,099
Millet                1,410   1,079  1,410   1,643   1,000   1,348          -295
Subtotal             11,280  14,838 11,280  22,253   8,200  20,498    -1,755
Industrial Crops
Cotton                  510      567    510   1,193      500   1,320         127
Sesame                  490      313    450      563     600      793        230
Subtotal                960      880    960   1,756   1,100   2,113          357
Fruits and
Vegetables
Onions                   -        -      -        -      200   3,336    3,336
Bananas                  -        -      -        -        75     695       695
Papayas                  -        -      -        -        75   1,884    1,884
Watermelon               -        -      -        -      300   5,004    5,004
Sweetmelon               -        _      -        -      250   4,517    4,517
Subtotal                 -        -      -        -      900  15,436   15,436
Stover
Sorghum White (Main
and Cotton Crop)    5,300 110,505  5,300 154,290   3,700 123,432  -30,858
Sorghum Red           2,580  78,690  2,580  41,895   1,500  29,190  -12,705
Maize                 1,990  19,363  1,990  32,568   2,000  33,360          792
Millet                1,410  21,559  1,410  31,289   1,000  23,630   -7,659
Subtotal             11,280 180,117 11,280 260,042   8,200 209,612  -50,430
/1   Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I) at full development (10th
year) -- spate irrigated area.
/2   Tihama Development Project IV (Wadi Rima II) at full development
(10th year).



- 32 -
B. Marketing and Prices
6.02      In view of the rapid growth in demand for food and increasing
dependence on imports, the project's output would have a ready market. Growth
in demand has been particularly dramatic for fruits and vegetables. In the
period 1971-77, imports of vegetables and fruits increased by 11 and 6.5 times
respectively; while in the same period, production of these crops increased by
46% and 80%. Since income elasticity for these crops is relatively high,
demand is expected to remain strong in the future. The Tihama, with its
favorable climatic conditions, is expected to play a major role in increasing
domestic production, planned to grow at 22% over the Five-Year Plan period.
Similarly, imports of grains have increased by 174% in the last five years.
Table 6.2 below shows past and projected future consumption of vegetables,
fruits and maize.
Table 6.2: PROJECTED FUTURE CONSUMPTION OF FRUITS, VEGETABLES AND MAIZE
Vegetables               Fruits                   Maize
Pro-      Con-         Pro-       Con-         Pro-      Con-
duction   sumption    duction   sumption    duction   sumption
--------------------------- (tons) --------------------------
1971/72            137       138          681         76           16        16
1977/78            170       186          112        215           54        58
Projected
1980/81            208       214          118        174           75        84
1985/86            306       314          151        256          100       112
1990/91            449       416          193        376          134       150
Demand for sesame also exceeds domestic supply and the shortfall is expected
to increase further since consumption of edible oils and oil cake is increas-
ing by over 3.5% annually. Most of YAR's cotton production which amounted
to about 4,000 tons in 1977/78 is presently exported. However, with the
investments planned in textile factories, domestic demand for cotton might
increase to 9,000 tons per annum by 1981. The Five-Year Plan envisaged
an increase in cotton production to 32,500 tons by 1980/81.
Market Organization
6.03      In Yemen, marketing of agricultural commodities is essentially a
private sector activity. The project is served by an impressive network of
traditional markets through which most of the marketable surplus, except
cotton, would be sold both for local and outside markets. There are four
weekly markets and six wholesalers operating in Wadi Rima, and many full-time
traders working in different markets connect villages with the main towns and
ports. Farmers can sell their products to a trader at the farmgate, to the
consumer in the nearest market or to a wholesaler who operates in the area.
Which channel is used depends on the amount and kind of product, on the means
of transportation available and on the distance between the farmgate and the



- 33 -
nearest market. Seed cotton would be entirely purchased by the Government-
owned General Cotton Company (GCC) which has a collection center at Zabid about
20 km from the project area. There are three cotton ginneries in YAR, two of
which are in the Tihama at Hodeidah and Zabid, the third being in Sana'a.
6.04      The traditional system is well developed and has been able, so far,
*        to channel surplus production to the market.  Indeed, qat, a perishable com-
modity, is distributed throughout the country within the day of its picking
with impressive organization. However, it has inefficiencies mainly due to the
lack of transport and storage infrastructure.  These difficulties are expected
to be eased in the project area with the provision of feeder roads under the
Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I), and in the country as a whole
through Government investments in transport and storage infrastructure.
Prices
6.05      There are no price controls on agricultural commodities in YAR
except for cotton, imported wheat, wheat flour, rice and sugar. Market prices
for producers and consumers are much higher than those in the world market for
all commodities. This is due to scarce domestic supply, high cost of produc-
tion and inefficiencies in market organization.  The Government annually sets
a producer price for seed cotton; this price increased by 35% between 1977 and
1978 but has not increased since 1978. Fertilizers and improved seeds are
distributed by Government agencies at cost price and cotton seeds are provided
by GCC free of charge.
6.06      The following table shows the prices used for financial and economic
analysis. Financial prices are based on actual 1979 farmgate prices prevail-
ing in the project area. Economic prices of traded goods are based on pro-
jected international prices; for non-traded goods, local prices were adjusted
by the standard conversion factor because specific conversion factors could
not be estimated (Annex 5, Table 3).



- 34 -
Table 6.3: FARMGATE PRICES USED FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Financial Price       Economic Price/l
Product                  YRls/ton  US$/ton    YRls/ton  U '/ton
Sorghum, white             1,900       422        1,169     203
Sorghum, red               1,500       333        1,169     203
Millet                      2,100      467        1,169      203
Maize                       1,400      311        1,296      225
Cotton                      2,350      522        3,323-    577-
3,732     648
Sesame                     3,600       800        3,220      559
Bananas                     6,000    1,333        1,889      328
Watermelon                  1,000      222        1,000      174
Sweetmelon                 1,500       333        1,500      260
Papayas                    3,000       667        3,000      521
Onions                     4,500    1,000         4,500      833
Stover
Sorghum (white
and red)                      95       21           95      16
Millet and Maize               65       14           65       11
/1   Based on Standard Convesion Factor = 0.78 or shadow exchange
rate of US$1.00 = YRls 5.76. (Details in Annex 5.)
C. Farm Incomes
6.07      Considerably higher incomes would be realized under the project
when compared with the situation without the project where only agricultural
services and infrastructure would be provided. Whereas farmers would adopt
new agricultural practices on extension advice under Tihama Development Project
II (Wadi Rima I), the provision of improved irrigation schemes would increase
the volume of water available and improve its control. Hence, farmers would
be able to not only increase yields but allocate water more rationally,
applying optimum quantities to different crops and introducing higher value
crops which require proper water control, rather than spreading it thinly
among the traditional cereal crops as is presently done. Crops such as
onions, melons, papayas, yields net returns which are between three to twenty
times more than the most profitable traditional crop, white sorghum.
6.08      Increases in net farm incomes would be as follows:



- 35 -
Table 6.4: PRESENT AND PROJECTED FARM INCOME LEVELS
Future           Increases
Without     With        Due to
Type of Farm            Present    Project    Project        ProJect      Increases
-----------------(YRls)------------------           ()
1.5 ha in Non-
perennial Area
Owner Operator           5,370        7,200       9,340        2,140          30
Tenant                   2,680        3,600       4,820        1,200          34
Landlord                 2,680        3,600       4,520          920          26
1.5 ha in Perennial
Area
Owner Operator           5,370        7,200      18,810        9,130         127
Tenant                   2,680        3,600       9,680        6,080         169
Landlord                 2,680        3,600       9,130        5,530         156
5 ha in Non-
perennial Area
Owner Operator          17,710       27,110      65,290        6,940          26
Tenant                   8,860       13,550      33,570        3,990          29
Landlord                 8,850       13,560      31,720        2,950          22
5 ha in Perennial
Area
Owner Operator          17,710       27,110      65,290       38,180         141
Tenant                   8,860       13,550      33,570       20,020         148
Landlord                 8,850       13,560      31,720       18,160         134
6.09      With the water available, not all farms can be irrigated throughout
the year. Thus farms in the perennial areas would realize much larger
increases in income because they would be able to cultivate higher value
fruits and vegetables such as papayas, bananas and onions. In the other
areas, crops such as melon and watermelon would partially replace the tradi-
tional crops of sorghum and millet. The location of these two areas would
depend upon the distribution of water which would be determined following a
study of water rights (para. 3.11).
6.10      These projections assume that landlords would share the cost of in-
puts in proportion to their shares and follow the rule of division by half.
Even if the tenants were to bear all costs of inputs, they would still have
incentive to adopt the new cropping pattern since their incomes would still
increase as follows:



- 36 -
Table 6.5: PROJECTED FARM INCOMES WITH TRADITIONAL CROP SHARING ARRANGEMENTS
Future
Without       With
Present      Project     Project
--- YRls-
1.5 ha in Non-perennial Area                       1,680        1,360      2,723.6
1.5 ha in Perennial Area                           1,680        1,360      6,890.0
5 ha in Non-perennial Area                         5,560        5,500      7,930.0
5 ha in Perennial Area                             5,560        5,500    22,070.0
D.  Taxes and Cost Recovery
6.11      The project is expected to generate a considerable increase in Gov-
ernment revenue through general agricultural income taxes, zakat and coopera-
tion tax. Zakat, a religious tithe, is set at 10% of the gross value of
production in the spate irrigated area. The collection is made partly in
cash and partly in kind. The revenue is allocated largely to the LDA's (75%)
and much of the rest (25%) is used for community purposes, such as distribution
to the needy. The cooperation tax, which amounts to 2.5% of gross value of
production was instituted to help finance the LDA's. As a result of increased
production due to the project, these tax revenues would be raised by amounts
shown below:
Table 6.6: INCREMENTAL TAXES DUE TO THE PROJECT
Present Value of
Collection Over
Annual Revenue       25 Years (at 10%)
----------YRls Millions-----------
Zakat                                          4.36                    19.41
Cooperation tax                                1.09                     4.85
Total                                          5.45                    24.26
In addition, Government revenue from the Al Jarubah State farm would increase
by YRls 10.4 million per annum. The present value of this revenue over 25
years would be YRls 46.1 million.
6.12      The Government's policy on cost recovery for irrigation has been
developed in cooperation with IDA, through implementation of the Tihama Devel-
opment Project I (Wadi Zabid), the first and only public irrigation scheme in
YAR. Following a study by TDA and ECWA in 1977 for Wadi Zabid, a policy was
adopted to recover full capital costs in real terms, but with no interest,
over 50 years as well as full annual operation and maintenance costs. It was
also agreed that collection would be made through zakat and a surcharge of
2% of gross production would be levied on landowners. This 2% surcharge,



- 37 -
together with incremental zakat, were estimated to be sufficient to achieve
the desired recovery levels for Wadi Zabid. For the first year of implementa-
tion, 1979, the details of the collection were fully discussed with the Wadi
Zabid farmers and were accepted by them.
6.13      This system of cost recovery is consistent with the centuries old
zakat collection system and has the advantages of being simple and easy to
understand for both the beneficiaries and TDA.  This greatly facilitates
implementation in a country with scarce administrative resources and where the
concepts of public irrigation schemes and water charges are being introduced
for the first time. The disadvantages are, however, that it is not progres-
sive by size of holding and, as a production tax, does not encourage efficient
allocation of water. In addition, the mechanism of zakat collection is
inefficient, since zakat is paid on the basis of voluntary declaration. While
clearly recognizing these disadvantages, the system was adopted for the
present since alternatives could not be found which would meet the objectives
of income distribution and efficiency, yet would still be acceptable to the
users and be administratively feasible. The Government intends, therefore, to
shift over time to a system of levying a flat charge per bectare owned, to be
administered directly by TDA, independently of zakat. To ensure progress in
this direction, jointly with IDA, Government would conduct periodic reviews of
the cost recovery system at intervals not exceeding five years. To meet one
of the first prerequisites, they have begun to undertake a cadastral survey.
Equipment and other provisions to accelerate such a survey for Wadi Rima has
been included in this project. It has also been agreed formally (under Tihama
Development Project III, Wadi Mawr) that there would be periodic reviews of
the recovery levels at least every five years. Moreover, the 2% surcharge in
the Tihama Development Project III (Wadi Mawr) would result in reducing the
recovery period to 20 years.
6.14      This system was agreed for Tihama Development Project III (Wadi
Mawr) and will be applied to the proposed project, to maintain a uniform
system throughout the Tihama. However, the 2% surcharge, together with
incremental zakat would recover, in addition to annual operation and main-
tenance (O&M) cost, the capital costs in 18 years rather than 50 years as
in Zabid and 20 years as in Wadi Mawr. This difference is due to the lower
capital cost of this project's irrigation development and to the increase in
agricultural commodity prices since 1977. The recovery of the true economic
value is lower, and taking account of only the 2% surcharge and assuming-the
opportunity cost of capital to be 10%, 22% of total public sector outlay,
including capital investment and annual O&M costs, would be recovered over
25 years. If all direct and indirect taxes are taken into account, including
incremental zakat and corporation tax as well as the 2% surcharge, the cost
recovery index would be 63% and the rent recovery index 27%. Results of rent
and cost recovery analyses are summarized below (details are in Annex 5).



- 38 -
Table 6.7: RENT AND COST RECOVERY
Rent         Cost
Direct    Recovery   Recovery
Charges    II i>x      Index
(YRls)      (%)         (%)
1.5 ha in Non-perennial Areas                        1930        19          18
1.5 ha in Perennial Areas                            3090         6          28
5 ha in Non-perennial Areas - owner operator         6570         16         18
- landlord             6570        40          18
5 ha in Perennial Areas       - owner operator       10360        6          29
- landlord            10360        12          29
10 ha in Non-perennial Areas                        13140        40          18
10 ha in Perennial Areas                            20720        11          29
Total Project Area                                   12.49        11         22
million
6.15      The annual surcharge of 2% would accrue directly to TDA, being paid
to TDA directly by the provincial zakat collection office, and would amount to
YRls 1.9 million (US$0.42 million) compared to O&M costs of YRls 1.2 million
(US$0.27 million). An assurance was obtained during negotiations that in
addition to zakat currently levied, the Government would impose on the land-
owners an annual water charge of not less than 2% of gross value of produc-
tion which, together with incremental zakat generated, would recover 100% of -
capital costs with no interest in about 20 years and 100% O&M costs annually,
and that it shall conduct, jointly with IDA, periodic reviews of the cost
recovery system and the charges levied at intervals of not exceeding five
years, after completion of the irrigation works presently scheduled for 1983.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The proposed project would complement the invesments in agricultural
development services and infrastructure provided under Tihama Development
Project II (Wadi Rima I) and would remove the major constraint to exploiting
the agricultural potential of the project area.  Only with the restructuring
of the irrigation works is it considered possible to improve control of water
necessary for rational distribution and for long term development of yields
and cropping pattern.  Increased production would contribute to the national
objective of food security which, in the context of the growing dependence
on imports, has become one of the priority concerns of the Government.
7.02      The project would generate about 240,000 man days of employment for
project construction, and about 57,000 man days for on-farm work equivalent
to annual full employment of about 240 persons and 230 people respectively.
This, together with positive impact of the project on labor productivity,



- 39 -
would encourage labor to work at home and contribute to the Government's
objective of reducing dependence on employment opportunities abroad. While
high rates of emigration in recent years have led to labor shortage and high
costs for agricultural production, this is not expected to constrain project
implementation since there are indications that emigration is levelling off
and the Government has permitted temporary import of labor when necessary.
Increases in farm labor requirements are shown below.
Table 7.1: FARM LABOR REQUIREMENTS
Without      With
Labor Requirement                 Present     Project      Project    Incremental
----------------(man days)-------------------
Total                             486,800     799,800      856,700        56,900
family labor per farm                  80          250         160            10
hired labor per farm                  110          170         180            10
Total labor per farm                  195          320         340            20
hired labor per
landless family                      260         390          410            20
Labor requirements per farm with project would total 340 man days per annum
on average for the project area, and would be within a family's ability to
provide. Harvest work, traditionally done by hired labor, would increase to
180 days per farm or 410 days per landless family. This may prove to be a
constraint with many adult men of these families abroad, and would be over-
come by increase in the use of threshers and other machinery. A study to
identify appropriate machinery as well as credit have been provided under
Tihama Development Project II (Wadi Rima I). Due to the construction of
permanent irrigation works, the labor which is traditionally engaged in
building and maintaining the temporary diversion dikes would be freed.
7.03      The principal beneficiaries of the project would be the 2,500 farm
families or 15,000 persons, comprising about 2,000 landowners and about 500
tenants. Their incomes would not only rise but would become more reliable as
they would no longer face the risk of floods destroying the diversion struc-
tures and canals. Benefits to 1,100 landless families from increased employ-
ment would bring an additional income of about YRls 600 ($133) on average per
family or YRls 100 ($22) per capita. Owing to a lack of data on distribution
of land ownership and of remittances, it is not possible to establish the
proportion of beneficiaries belonging to the target poverty group nor the
proportions of investment costs attributable to different beneficiary groups.
As a rough approximation, about 500 of the tenants or owner operators with
farms of less than 2 ha, as well as about 700 landless workers' families, both
with little or no remittance income, might presently have incomes below the
poverty level of YRls 930 (US$207). Almost half the investments would be
attributable to the two large properties, the Government farm and another
belonging to a local family. However, these are sharecropped by numerous



- 40 -
tenants and most of the other landowners have small to medium farms. The rest
of the people of Wadi Rima, totalling 22,600, would benefit from sand stabili-
zation in some areas, from improved nutrition and health which would result
from increased availability of fruits and vegetables together with the pilot
home economicq extension service, and most importantly, from the effect of the
project to encourage people to remain in the project area, creating a more
stable economy and community.
B. Economic Analysis
7.04      The project was compared with the situation where only Tihama Devel-
opment Project II (Wadi Rima I) would be implemented. The readily quantifiable
economic benefits consist mainly of an increase in net value of annual agricul-
tural production amounting to YRls 31.3 million at full development. Not
included were benefits of sand stabilization and pilot rural uplift programs.
Border prices were estimated for traded goods on the basis of international
prices and their projections when available. For non-traded goods, local
market prices were adjusted by the standard conversion factor of 0.78 because
specific conversion factors could not be estimated. Commodity prices used are
shown on Table 6.3. In view of full employment prevailing in YAR, the market
wage was assumed to reflect its opportunity cost. The standard conversion
factor of 0.78 is equivalent to the shadow exchange rate of YRls 5.76 to
US$1.00 compared to the official rate of YRls 4.5. With these assumptions the
economic rate of return of the project as a whole, including investments in
sand stabilization and rural uplift would be 17%. The net present value of
the project, assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, would be YRls
65.8 million (US$14.6 million). The rate of return on the irrigation develop-
ment would be 20% and the net present value of this development would be YRls
78.4 million (US$17.4 million). If the project is incorporated with Tihama
Development Project II (Wadi Rima I), which had an estimated rate of return of
30%, and evaluated as a single project, the combined rate of return would be
25%.
7.05      Alternative designs with varying number and sites of diversion
structures were considered at the preparation stage. The proposed design
was selected since it maximizes saving in water and, having only one struc-
ture, is least costly. The cost per hectare of the proposed scheme is $1,520
and is lower in real terms than those of Wadi Zabid and Wadi Mawr developments
(Tihama Development Projects I and III) (Annex 5). The cost per beneficiary
is $810. Total costs in economic prices, measured in domestic prices, would
be YRls 104.8 million (US$26.9 million) compared with the financial cost of
YRls 94.1 million (US$20.8 million).
C. Project Risks
7.06      The project is not associated with any special managerial or tech-
nical complications. The main risk in realizing the economic benefits is in
the farmers' adoption rate of high value crops; with no change at all in
the cropping pattern, the rate of return and the net present value would be
negative. However, this situation is unlikely to arise since these crops have



- 41 -
already been cultivated in well irrigated areas of Wadi Rima. Moreover, the
area under fruits and vegetables would have to fall below 300 ha or 4% of the
total area compared with the appraisal estimates of 900 ha and 11% before the
rate of return would fall below 10% and the net present value below 0. A
resurgence of disputes among the irrigator groups would also disrupt produc-
tion and a fair distribution of benefits. This risk is minimized by design
of the works which left the existing distribution system largely intact, and
provided an independent offtake for each sheikdom as well as by the transfer
of the control of water up to the offtakes from the local Sheiks to TDA.
Another possibility is that the recent edict on cost sharing would not be
followed. Even if the tenants bore all the costs of inputs, their incomes
would increase considerably. Shortage of farm labor and rising farm wages
would be compensated by the possibility to grow crops with high returns and by
introduction of mechanization in certain agricultural tasks. Rapid inflation
in the last few years has led to a large increase in the cost of civil works,
however, this would not jeopardize this project since the inflation rate is
slowing down and, the sensitivity analysis shows that civil works costs would
need to increase by almost 150% for the net present value to fall below 0.
Sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the degree to which assump-
tions on critical variables could vary without reducing the NVP to 0, and the
effects of changes of such variables on the rate of return. The results are
shown below.
Table 7.2:  SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS - CROSSOVER VALUE /1
Appraisal      Crossover        %
Variable                                         Value         Value        Change
Benefits from high value crops
(million YRls)                                   179            100          -44
Cost of civil works (million YRls)                  53.6          132        +146
Standard Conversion Factor                           0.78           0.29     +169
Cost of labor (million YRls)                         9.8           88.0      +795
/1   Value of variable for which net present value is zero at a discount rate
of 10%.
Table 7.3: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Rate of Return
A.   Total Project (irrigation development, sand stabilization
and home economics)                                               17.2%
B.   Irrigation Development                                            19.7%
All yields or prices down 20%                                     16.8%
All costs up 20%                                                  17.3%
One-year delay in implementation                                  17.5%
All yields or prices down 20% and all costs up 20%                14.6%
No change in cropping pattern                                     -2.6%
C.   Tihama Development Projects II (Wadi Rima I)
and IV (Wadi Rima II) combined                                    24.8%



- 42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The signing of a loan agreement by Government with the other
external source(s) of financing would be a condition of effec.iveness (para.
3.15).
8.02      During negotiations agreements were obtained and assurances were
obtained on the principal issues referred to in Chapters 3, 4 and 6. Subject
to the condition of effectiveness described in para. 8.01, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit fo US$5.5 million on standard terms.  The borrower
would be the Yemen Arab Republic.



-43-                        ANNEX 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Description of Project Works
General
1.        The works included in the project are:  (a) wadi irrigation improve-
ment works; (b) sand stabilization; and (c) project staff housing.
Irrigation Works
2.        The Wadi irrigation improvement works include:  (a) construction
of a diversion weir at Mishrafa with ancilliary works for diverting up to
15 m3/sec of the Wadi flows in a joint supply canal (remodelled Hudayd Canal)
for north and south bank irrigation; (b) remodelling about 4.5 km of existing
Hudayd Canal from Mishrafa to its junction with the syphon; (c) constructing
a bifurcation structure and a syphon for delivering water to the north
and south bank canals; (d) constructing about 20 km of a supply canal along
south bank of the Wadi; (e) remodelling existing primary and secondary canals
to improve their command in required reaches; and (f) constructing two off-
take structures for diverting Wadi flows exceeding 15 m3/sec to the tail
canals and one off-take structure for delivering supplies to south bank supply
canal in case of any breach in the joint north bank supply canal above the
syphon.
3.        Alternatives considered by LRD/ODM and DHV during feasibility
studies, for improving the Wadi's irrigation included the construction of
seven, two or one diversion structures in the Wadi. LRD's technical assis-
tance team recommended construction of a concrete diversion structure at
Mishrafa and six gabion bed stabilizers lower down the Wadi to feed the
existing irrigation system in its first phase development. They proposed
several structures for minimum interference with the existing system of
offftakes from the Wadi.  Gabion bed stabilizers, with their crests at the
Wadi's average bed elevation at the construction sites, were proposed instead
of traditional diversion weirs to keep the cost of the structures low. As
the diversion capability, the hydraulic performance and, the structural
stability of the proposed gabion structures were not proven the Government did
not agree to implement the proposal for irrigation development in Wadi Rima
but agreed to conduct hydraulic model studies and construction of prototype
gabion structure in Wadi Rima, in collaboration with LRD/ODM, to determine
the performance and the structural stability of the proposed structures and
consider if proposed structures could be adopted for the Government's future
development plans. DHV also undertook an economic analysis of the gabion



- 44 -                       ANNEX 1
structures and found them economically less attractive than the other alterna-
tives. They have studied two alternatives of feeding the existing irrigation
canals, which will also be remodelled to improve their command and efficiency
from one or two diversion structures. The alternative for one diversion
structure inciudes the construction of a syphon and a bifurcation structure
for distributing supplies to the north and south bank canals. DHV's studies
indicate that the alternative of feeding the Wadi's irrigation system from one
diversion structure is more economical in cost and more efficient in reducing
the water losses. This project will include the construction of a supply
canal and will provide separate off-takes to each sheikdom in the project area
and thus cause minimum interference with the existing distribution system.
Experience of regulating supplies by TDA on Tihama Development Project I (Wadi
Zabid), instead of the traditional distribution control by local Sheikhs,
indicates that so long as an equitable distribution respecting the traditional
water rights is ensured by the Government's implementing agency, the transfer
of distribution control from the local Sheikhs to the Government's controlling
agency and the number of structures in the Wadi from which the existing system
is fed do not pose any problems. As a single diversion structure solution is
more economical and ensures better irrigation efficiency, it has been accepted.
4.        The diversion weir at Mishrafa will be designed to pass a hundred
year flood which from the rainfall catchment area relationship is estimated at
1,800 m3/sec. The weir will be a conventional concrete structure with stone
lining to resist any possible erosion from the iteration of the bed load
movement. The design will incorporate a bucket dissipator and will be model
tested to ensure its hydraulic efficiency. The structure will be designed
safe against uplift and exit pressures. The ancilliary structures will
include a silt excluder and a canal regulator. The discharge capacity of the
canal regulator will be 15 m3/sec as about 85% of the yearly flow volumes have
been discharged at Mishrafa in hydrograph ranges of less than 15 m3/sec.
Flows in hydrograph ranges exceeding 15 m3/sec will pass downstream of Mishrafa
and will be utilized by Al-Mutarid and other tail reach canals. Two inlet
structures will be constructed under the project for feeding these canals.
Alternative of feeding the lower canals through the supply canal to be con-
structed under the project would also be retained. TDA will assist the
farmers on these canals in constructing the traditional dykes for diverting
the wadi flows into the inlet structures.
5.        The cross section of Al-Hudayd Canal will be improved up to a
point 4.5 km from Mishrafa to take a discharge of 15 m3/sec with a maximum
velocity of 1.5 m/sec. The Al-Hudayd Canal in this reach, is crossed at a
couple of places by small side wadis.  To protect the canal against damage by
flash floods from these wadis protection works such as an overchute and an
underpass will be constructed. A bifurcation structure and a sypon will
be constructed at a location 4.5 km from Mishrafa to distribute supplies to
the north bank Hudayd Canal (5 m3/sec) and to the south bank supply canal (10
m3/sec). Sufficient working head would be available at this point to operate
the syphon. Flushing arrangements would be incorporated in the design of
the syphon. To cater for any emergency situation, caused by a breach in the



-45-                        ANNEX 1
north bank supply canal above bifurcation, an inlet structure will be con-
structed in the south bank canal upstream of the syphon to feed the canal by
constructing a temporary diversion dike in the wadi. Beyond the syphon the
supply canal would continue on the south side of the wadi following the
existing alignment of the Al-Ashraf Canal for about 2 km. At the end of this
stretch an off-take will be provided to serve the Al-Ashraf primary canal
system. From here the supply canal will follow a new alignment along the
wadi. In general the properties of the supply canal on the south side would
be as follows: Maximum discharge 10 m3/sec; bed width 4.40 m; longitudinal
slope 150 cm/km; side slope 1:1.5; maximum water depth 1.10 m and free board
0. 50 m.
6.        Drop structures and check drop structures wil be constructed in
the supply channel to maintain proper longitudinal slope of the canal and
feeding the existing primary canals which will be remodelled in required
reaches to improve their command efficiency. Drop structures and turnouts
will also be provided in the remodelled primary canals to avoid scour of the
channels' beds and the construction of expensive cross dikes for gaining
proper irrigation command. The incised reaches of the secondary canals will
also be similarly treated and wells type drop structures and direct turnout
will be provided in them to improve their irrigation command and eliminate the
necessity of constructing traditional expensive dikes to divert water from the
canals to the fields. The extension service backed up by the engineering wing
of the Tihama Development Authority will assist the local farmers in con-
structing and maintaining water courses for further improving the irrigation
efficiency.
Sand Stabilization
7.        A pilot sand stabilization program incorporating shelter belt
plantations will be started over an area of about 800 ha in Wadi Rima.
It will be run for four years under the technical direction of a specialist
recruited for the task. Later the work can be absorbed within any broader
framework for sand stabilization or arid zone forestry whichever is intro-
duced. In selecting the areas priority shall be given to those areas where
greatest effect can be achieved in protecting cultivated land. These areas
are listed below and are shown in Map IBRD 14320.



-46-                        ANNEX I
PRIORITY AREAS FOR SAND STABILIZATION
IN THE VICINITY OF WADI RIMA
Suggested
Location                Dimensions      Area      Nature                 Priority
(km)        (ha)
1.  S of Wadi           8.00 x 0.25    200       Low moving sand          First
Uqash & E                                    adjacent to farmland
of highway
2.  S of Wadi          10.00 x 0.25    250       Low moving sand &        Second
Uqash & W of                                 part of medium high
highway                                      dune field adjacent
to wadi
3.  E of highway        2.00 x 1.00    140       Low dune field           Fourth
on southern
limits of sands
4.  W of highway        3.00 x 0.25      75      Low dune field           Third
8.        A fenced forestry nursery will be established in Year 1 to raise
the plants required. It would be convenient if this were sited at Al-Husayniah
where there is government land available complete with facilities for well
irrigation. Fencing guarding will be needed to exclude livestock from the
nursery and also from some locations of recently planted shelterbelts. The
species used will depend upon the conditions in the areas to be planted.
The principal species are likely to be Tamarix aphylla and T. stricta. Expe-
rience under similar conditions in a neighboring country suggests that good
results could be obtained as follows:
On top of medium dunes:  Tamarix aphylla, Acacia tortilis, Callignoum comosum
On slopes of Dunes:       Tamarix aphylla, Prosopis juliflora, Acacia
cysnophylia, A. cyclops, Parkinsonia aculcata
In depressions:           Parkinsonia aculeata, Tamarix aphylla, Azadiracta
(and on lower slopes)    indica, Acacia arabica, Salvadora persica
9.        In addition trial plantings of Acacia ancura, A. ligulata, A.
salicina, Eucalyptus occidentalis, E. gomphocephala, E. microtheca, E.
salmonophloia, E. sideroxylon, and E. brockwayi could be made, particulary
at sites 1 and 2 where conditions may be better suited to these species.
Spacing of these trees and shrubs should be no less than 3 m x 5 m giving a
maximum of 650 plants/ha.
10.       Because of the seasonal high winds and the likelihood of damage by
sand-blast to the young plants, surface stabilization will be necessary at



- 47-                         ANNEX 1
places. This can be done with pallisades formed from date palm fronds and
laid out in a checkerboard, or surface mulching with bituminous emulsions.
Overall costs per hectare are likely to be similar. It is important to
the concept of the program that alternative techniques including the use of
fertilizers be tried and the results evaluated. Opportunity could also be
taken to include plantings and interplantings of smaller shrubs, legumes,
annual and perennial grasses under varying site conditions. If a relatively
good ground cover can be established using such species, it could reduce
the need for pallisading. Seedlings would be produced at Al-Hussayniah and
Al-Jarabah demonstration farms and distributed at cost to farmers specially
in well irrigated areas to be planted around the fields and possibly for
use as firewood or poles. Promotion of this program will be carried out
through the extension service and under the supervision of the forestry staff.
Species for trial in this context may include:
Shrubs:   Haloxylon persicum, shrub Acacia species drawn from those already
listed, Leptadenia pyrotechnica, Salvadora persica and Calligonun
comosum.
Grasses:  Panicum antidotale, Lasiurus scindicus and Cenchrus ciliaris.
11.       Some provision will be needed for watering, though the need will
depend on seasonal rainfall. In no area should it be necessary to apply
more than five waterings (at 10 1/tree/watering).   With Tamarix, as well as
most of the shrub species and the grasses, no watering should be necessary
except for one application at planting. For estimating, it is assumed that
half of the plants will need full watering (i.e. five times during the estab-
lishment period).
12.       Trials with shelterbelts would also be extended to Al-Jarubah farms,
where there is the possibility of demonstrating the advantages of shelterbelts
in terms of increased crop yields. Shelterbelts at Al-Jarubah would be tried
under two separate sets of conditions, namely:
(a) rainfed farming with occasional spate flooding; and
(b) more regular irrigated farming conditions, including pump
irrigation.
13.       Species for shelter belts may include:
(a)  Acacia nilotica, Acacia albida, Conocarpus lancifolia,
Pithecelobium duce, Zizyiphus spina-christi or Juluba,
Tamarix aphylla, Parkinsonia aculeata, Moringa oleifera,
and Acacia totrilis for trials with no irrigation;
(b) Conocarpus lancifolia, Casuarina equisetifolia and pos-
sibly other Casuarina spp, Dalbergia sissoo, Azadiracta
indica, Pithecelobium duce, Albizia lebbek, Terminalia
catappa, Propopis juliflora, and Tamarix aphylla for
trials with irrigation.



- 48 -                       ANNEX I
The number of rows planted will depend upon the space available. Combination
of species will be tried to create belts of reasonable density and heights.
14.       Benefits from such a program cannot be quantified since it is
mostly experimental at this stage. Results obtained will be of value in
assessing economic benefits of expanding the program in Wadi Rima and extend-
ing it to other sand dune areas in Tihama.
Equipment for Sand Stabilization                                       YRls
Vehicle (4 W.D.) L.W.B.                   =           1               40,000
Pickups ( 4 W.D.)                         =           2               80,000
Lorry 5 ton with shelving                 =           1               80,000
Water tankers 12,000 gallons capacity   =             3              300,000
Moveable tanks with 2 h.p. pumps          =           3               24,000
Tools and spares                                                      80,000
These will be used in conjunction with the road maintenance machinery and farm
tractors with TDA.
Project Housing
15.       The housing need of the staff required for implementing the project
is assessed as fifteen. About 50% of this requirement will be met by the
houses vacated by the staff engaged on the construction of the Tihama Devel-
opment Project I (Wadi Zabid). Eight new two-bedroom houses with plinth area
of about 115 m2 each will be constructed to meet the remaining requirement.
These houses would follow the same type design as adopted for the earlier
Tihama Development Projects. They will either be cement block construction
with timber or concrete roofing or precast structures not susceptable to
damage from weather or termites. These houses will be constructed in TDA's
Staff Camp near Zabid town where the existing utility systems would be
extended to provide services to the new buildings.



-49-                       ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Pilot Scheme to Expand TDA Rural Development Activities
1.        Poverty of life in the project area is not only a problem of
low incomes and low agricultural productivity, but also a problem of lack of
basic social infrastructure and particulary of low standards of education,
nutrition, hygiene, etc., which reflect the fact that rural Yemen had been
largely isolated from centers of technological and social change. These
factors also reinforce low agricultural productivity and constrain development.
2.        TDA has been conscious of these aspects of poverty in the Tihamas
and has already incorporated road construction and water supply development
in its projects. Now that it has established itself as a competent authority,
it would be highly desirable for TDA to consider ways in which it could
expand its activities to directly address the social factors which constrain
development and to promote not only increase in agricultural production,
but improvements in rural life generally.
3.        In identifying new programs, TDA needs to assess its own expertise
and contribution it can make in conjunction with the activities and respon-
sibilities of other ministries and agencies and determine its appropriate
role and ways in which cooperation can be achieved. One possible area of
activity is an expansion of the agricultural extension program to cover home
economics, family life, and agricultural production activities of women.
Women have become an increasingly important part of the agricultural labor
force but cannot easily be reached by the male extension service. It is also
clear that if care is not taken there would be a risk that improved incomes
and services could be wasted rather than put to accelerate development. For
example, improved incomes might change the pattern of food consumption, but
this might not improve nutrition unless information on food values particu-
larly of new crops and imported goods were known. Improved supply of water
could be used effectively to improve hygiene and health, etc., but not unless
the people were taught basic principles.  These factors in turn have further
effects on agricultural production, e.g. consumption preferences affect the
cropping pattern and health affects labor productivity. Programs other than
extension for home economics and agricultural production activities of women
may be critically needed, and should be identified if this is the case.
4.        It is therefore proposed that consultancy services be provided
under the project to identify those activities aimed at improving living
standards which would be appropriate for TDA to undertake and to develop



-50-                        ANNEX 2
a pilot program for implementation to test whether such programs are feasible
in the Yemeni environment. Possible terms of reference for such services
might be proposed as follows.
Stage I - Six Months
5.        The consultant would identify the appropriate activities to be
undertaken by TDA to promote development. Special consideration will be
given to:
(i) objectives of TDA and its special role in context of the
administrative organization of the Government;
(ii)  the planned activities, specialized expertise and respon-
sibilities of various Ministries and agencies, notably of
Health, Education, Social Welfare, Public Works, the
Department for Women's and Children's Affairs, the Local
Development Association, the Governorate and the Yemen
General Grain Corporation's nutrition program;
(iii) the technical and administrative capabilities of TDA;
(iv)  the role of local institutions, e.g. traditional leaders;
(v) social customs, modes and organization of family life; and
(vi)  possibilities to bring close cooperation between the
activities of TDA and of other agencies, particularly LDAs.
6.        The consultant would discuss with the various Ministries and agen-
cies involved in rural development both at Sana'a and in the Tihama, their
functions, responsibilities and programs and define the role of TDA in this
context. Within about three months, a report outlining the above would be
prepared in draft. After clearance with the Chairman of TDA, this report
would form a basis for reaching understanding with other agencies regarding
TDA's role and how it can cooperate with other agencies.
Stage II - Six Months
7.        Detailed program for TDA activities in a pilot form would be devel-
oped.  This should include a study of the project area to identify development
constraints, needs and potential. To be considered for inclusion in this
program could be training to improve:
(i) consumption habits with regard to nutrition, caloric
intake and distribution of food within the family;
(ii) home processing of food;
(iii) home storage of food;



-51-                       ANNEX 2
(iv) home hygiene and child care;
(v) first aid practices;
(vi) handicraft activities for both use at home and for sale;
(vii) care of livestock;
(viii) agricultural practices; and
(ix) spread of information regarding availability of social
services.
8.        A proposal will be made to TDA for a pilot scheme.  It should
include a description of the area needs, the activities proposed, equipment
and staff requirements and expected benefits.
Stage III - Two Years
9.        Implementation of the above.



- 52 -                         ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Water Availability and Requirements
Surface Water
1.        The surface water in the project area, except for a small amount
derived from local streams, originates from Wadi Rima's catchment area con-
sisting of about 2,500 km2 of a rugged mountain region rising to elevations
of up to 2,900 meters in its headwaters. A gauging station was established
in Wadi Rima in 1975 at Mishrafa, where Wadi Rima exits onto the Tihama
Plain. Based on the records collected in the last three years, the surface
supply of Wadi Mawr at Mishrafa has varied from 96 Mm3 to 123 Mm3 per year.
The discharge has never fallen below 0.5 m3/sec and about 85% of the yearly
flow volumes have been discharged in hydrograph ranges of less than 15 m3/sec.
The period of the historic flow record of Wadi Rima is not of sufficient
length and precludes the use of classical methods to determine a flood fre-
quency relationship and the long-term average runoff of the basin. These
values have been assessed by LRD/ODM and DHV Consultants during feasibility
studies, using empirical and synthetic methods. The results obtained by DHV
are summarized below:
MAXIMUM ANNUAL PEAK FLOW OF WADI MAWR
Return Period                  Probability                   Flood Volume
(%)                          (Mm3)
2                            50                              725
10                            10                            1,200
50                             2                            1,600
100                             1                            1,800 -
SUMMARY OF RUNOFF VOLUME
Return Period                  Probability                   Flood Volume
(%)                          (Mm3)
1.11                            90                             50
2                               50                             80
5                               20                            115
10                               10                            135



- 53 -                        ANNEX 3
2.        From the above the 100 year flood for the design of the diversion
works is assessed as 1,800 m3/sec and the average annual runoff volume
as 80 Mm3 at the gauging site which will also be the site for diversion weir.
Measurement of losses in the existing canals during the feasibility studies
had indicated that such losses were very small, though, in the wadi bed these
were considerable. As about 85% of the annual flow will be extracted from
the Wadi at Mishrafa after the project implementation, the total conveyance
losses will be small and have been estimated to be about 20% of the annual
runoff at Mishrafa. About 64 Mm3 of water will thus be available at field
level for irrigation for raising about 10,200 ha of crops planned for the
project (Table 1) during an average flow year. In keeping with the current
agricultural practice of growing drought tolerant crops in the project area,
the dominant crops grown under the project will be sorghum, millet and sesame.
They will be better suited for flexible irrigation (i.e., to receive water
applications in excess of their theoretical requirements during periods
of higher flows and lesser than their theoretical requirements in periods
of lower flows) which the seasonal variations of flows in the Wadi may
necessitate. Studies made in research and demonstration plots under the first
Tihama Development Project indicate that substantial yields can be obtained
from sorghum, millet, cotton and maize by providing them only two to three
waterings during their growth. The moderate infiltration rate of the soil
coupled with its good moisture holding capacity will also assist in coping
with the vagaries of the wadi flows.
3.        Wadi Rima water is of excellent quality for irrigation use with
dissolved constituents ranging from between 200-400 mg/liter only. This,
coupled with occasional heavy rains in the area will offset any salinity
hazard to the project's irrigated lands.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Eatimated Water Reouirements
Jan     Fab      Mar     or       May     Jun     July    Au        Sept    Oct     Nov      Dec        Water         Total Demand
Requirement         (net)
(aim)            (Mm3)
Climate Data
Average temperature (OC)                         25.0    26.5    28.2    29.9    31.5    33.0    33.0    31.1    30.9    29.3    27.5    25.7
Percent day-time hours                            0.26    0.26    0.27    0.28    0.29    0.29    0.29    0.28    0.28    0.27    0.26    0.25                                           1
Il                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U,
Rainfall (mm) -                                   9.0    23.0      7.0    50.0    48.0    35.0    33.0   190.0    88.0    88.0    14.0         0                                         9
Reference Crop Evapotranspiration
Daily ETO (mm)                                    4.2     4.5      5.7     6.1      6.8     7.0      7.0     6.5      6.2     5.3      4.8     4.2
Crop Water Requirement
Sorghum (area cropped =   200 ha)                75.0   101.0   194.0   125.0                                                                           495                0.99
Sorghum ( "              3,500 ha)                                                                 47.0    100.0   200.0   109.0                        456               15.96
Sorghum ( "              1,500 ha)                                        75.0   166.0   213.0   162.0                                                  616                9.24
Seaame  (                  400 ha)                                                                  72.0    38.0   123.0    53.0                        286                1.14
Sesame  ( "                200 ha)               75.0    71.0   154.0    87.0                                                                           387                0.77
Cotton  ( "                500 ha)              108.0    65.0                                                        21.0    64.0   137.0   130.0       525                2.63
Millet  ( "              1,000 ha)                                                                  47.0   107.0   142.0                                296                2.96
Maize   (                1,000 ha)                                88.0   123.0  201.0   184.0                                                           596                5.96
Maize   (       "        1,000 ha)                                                                          50.0   116.0   132.0   137.0                435                4.35
Melons  (                  250 ha)                                51.0   103.0   187.0   150.0                                                          491                1.23
Melons  (                  300 ha)                                                                                   86.0   120.0   115.0               321                0.96        a,
Onions  (                  200 ha)              130.0   101.0                                                        81.0   129.0   151.0   137.0       729                1.46         A
Bananas (         "         75 ha)              130.0    88.0   133.0   103.0   124.0   140.0   180.0   116.0   151.0   129.0   144.0   126.0   1,564                      1.17
Papaya  (                   75 ha)               98.0    66.0   100.0    77.0    93.0   105.0   135.0    87.0   113.0    97.0   108.0    94.0   1,173                      0.88
Total Demand                                                                                                                                                            49.70
LI  Only 507 of the rainfall exceeding 20 mm in any month has been
taken as effective in calculating the crop water requirement.
1         .



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Monthly Water Requirements
------------------------Million M3---------------------------------------------
Crop        Area       Jan       Feb       Mar      Apr     M       June    July    Aug        pt    Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
(ha)
Sorghum        200     0.15      0.20      0.39    0.25        -      -        -        -      -        -       -      -      0.99
Sorghum      3,500        -        -         -        -        -      -      1.65    3.50    7.00   3.82        -      -    15.97
Sorghum      1,500        -        -         -      1.13    2.49   3.20    2.43         -      -        -       -      -      9.25
Sesame        400         -        -         -        -        -      -      0.29    0.15    0.49   0.21        -      _      1.14
Sesame         200     0.15      0.14      0.31    0.17        -      -        -        -      -        -       -      -      0.77
Cotton         500     0.54      0.33        -        -        -      -        -        -     0.11   0.32   0.67   0.65    2.62
Millet       1,000        -         -        -        -        -      -      0.47    1.07    1.42       -       -       -     2.96
Maize        1,000        -         -      0.88    1.23    2.01   1.84         -        -      -        -       -       -     5.96
Maize        1,000        -        -         -        -        -      -        -      0.50    1.16   1.32   1.37        -     4.35
Melons         250        -         -      0.13    0.26    0.47   0.38         -        -      -        -       -       -     1.24
Melons         300        -        -         -        -        -      -        -        -     0.26   0.36   0.35        -     0.97
Onions         200     0.26      0.20        -        -        -      -        -        -     0.16   0.26   0.30   0.27    1.45
Bananas         75     0.10      0.07      0.10    0.08    0.09   0.11    0.14    0.09    0.11   0.10   0.11   0.09    1.19
Papaya          75     0.07      0.05      0.08    0.06    0.07   0.08    0.10    0.07    0.08   0.07   0.08   0.07    0.88
Total              1.27      0.99      1.89    3.18    5.13   5.61    5.08    5.38   10.79   6.46   2.88   1.08   49.74
Water Available at Mishrafa
__-  --------------------Million M3-                     ---------------- -- -       - ------   ------
Average year            1.5      1.5       4.8      6.4     4.8    6.4    15.6    16.6    14.4    3.6    2.0    2.4    80.0    ' x
80% probability        1.1       1.1       3.6      4.8     3.6    4.8    11.7    12.5    10.8    2.7    1.5    1.8    60.0    ' w
20% probability        2.1       2.1       6.9      9.2     6.9    9.2    22.4    23.9    20,7    5.2    2.9    3.5   115.0



- 56 -                            ANNEX 4
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Project Costs
Local     Foreign      Total            Local      Foreign      Total
-------YRls Million---             ----US$ Million---------
Project Management
Engineering Staff                         0.36       2.01         2.37            0.08       0.45         0.53
Engineering Consultants                   -          2.52         2.52            -          0.56         0.56
Extension Staff (Home Economics)          0.15       0.65         0.80            0.03       0.14         0.17
Transport Vehicles, Camp, Office
and Extension Units Equipment            -          1.00         1.00            -          0.22         0.22
Operational Cost                          1.02       -            1.02            0.23       -            0.23
Sub-total                               1.53       6.18         7.71            0.34       1.37         1.71
Water Resources Study                       0.50       1.30         1.80             0.10       0.30         0.40
Irrigation Works
Diversion Weir including Intake           5.10       7.64        12.74             1.13      1.70         2.83
Syphon and Hudayd Canal Offtake           0.57       2.29         2.86            0.13       0.51         0.64
Supply Canal including Protection
of Hudayd Canal                          5.42       8.13        13.55            1.20       1.81         3.01
Rehabilitating Canals                     5.56       8.35        13.91             1.24      1.85         3.09
Direct Offtakes                           0.60       0.90         1.50            0.13       0.20         0.33
Sub-total                              17.25      27.31        44.56            3.83       6.07         9.90
Project Staff Housing                       0.99       1.49         2.48             0.22       0.33        0.55
Sand Stabilization
Expert and Counterpart Staff              0.67       0.65         1.32            0.15       0.14         0.29
Training of Counterpart Staff             -          0.14         0.14            -          0.03         0.03
Equipment                                 -          0.60         0.60            -          0.13         0,13
Civil Works                               0.35       0.68         1.03            0.08       0.15         0.23
Implementing Program                      3.09       1.09         4.18            0.69       0.24         0.93
Sub-total                               4.11       3.16         7.27            0.92       0.70         1.62
Maintenance Equipment                       -          3.44         3.44             -          0,76         0.76
Total Base Cost                        24.38      42.88        67.26            5.41       9.52        14.93
Contingencies
Physical                                  2.27       3.56         5.83            0.50       0.79          1.29
Price                                    15.05       5.91        20.96             3.34       1.31         4.65
Total                                  41.70      52.35        94.05            9.25      11.62        20.87



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Annual Project Costs
Year 1                     Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                      Total
Local      Foreign         Local      Foreign        Local       Foreign        Local       Foreign         Local      Foreign         Local & Foreign
Project Management
Consultants and other establishment                     82     1,030              163     1,754             163      1,643              103        745             511      5,172                5,683
Contingencies:
Physical                               -          -               -          -               -          -               -          -               -          -                     -
Price                                 12         41              77        210             134        329             124        224             347        804                1,151
Equipment                                                -        200               -        800               -          -               -          -               -      1,000                1,000
Contingencies:
Physical                               -         20               -         80               -          -               -          -               -        100                   100
Price                                  -          9-                       106               -                          -                          -        115                   115
Operational Costs                                       92          -             277          -            369           -            277           -          1,015           -                1,015
Contingencies:
Physical                               9          -              28          -              37          -              28          -             102          -                   102
Price                                 15          -             143          -             333          -             366          -             857          -                  857
Irrigation Works
Diversion Weir, Syphon and Direct Offtakes          1,254      2,166           2,508      4,332           2,508      4,332                -          -          6,270     10,830                17,100
Contingencies:
Physical                             125        217             251        433             251        433               -          -             627      1,083                1,710
Price                                207         95          1,297         572          2,262         953               -          -          3,766       1,620                5,386
Canals Construction and Rehabilitation              2,196      3,296           4,392      6,592           4,392      6,592                -          -         10,980     16,480                27,460   u
Contingencies:
Physical                             220        330             439        659             439        659               -          -           1,098      1,648                2,746
Price                                362        145          2,271         810          3,961      1,450                -          -          6,594       2,405                8,999
Project Staff Housing                                    400        600             590        890               -          -               -          -             990      1,490                2,480
Contingencies:
Physical                              40         60              59         89               -          -               -          -              99        149                  248
Price                                 66         26            305         117               -          -               -          -            371         143                  514
Sand Stabilization
Expert and Staff                                       96         108             192        266            192         266            192         152            672         792                1,464
Contingencies:
Price                                 14          4              90         32             157         53             230         61             491        150                  641
Equipment                                                -        244               -       360                -          -               -          -               -        604                  604
Contingencies:
Physical                               -         24               -         36               -          -               -          -               -         60                    60
Price                                  -         11               -         43               -          -               -          -               -         54                   54
Civil Works for Sand Stabilization                    150         290            200         390               -          -               -          -            350         680                1,030
Contingencies:
Physical                              15         29              20         39               -          -               -          -              35         68                  103
Price                                 25         13             103         48               -          -               -          -             128         61                  189
Implementing Stabilization Program                    440         160            880        320             880        320             891        291           3,091      1,091                 4,182
Contingencies:
Physical                              44         16              88         32              88         32              89         29             309        109                  418
Price                                 73          7            455          42            794          70          1,176         128          2,498         247                2,745
Maintenance Equipment                                      -      1,600               -      1,835               -          -               -          -               -      3,435                3,435
Contingencies:
Physical                               -        160               -        184               -----                                                          344                  344
Price                                  -         70               -        242               -          -               -          -               -        312                  312
Water Resources Studv /1                                              -            200         500            200         500            100        300             500       1,300                1,800
/L Includes contingencies



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Project Management
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total         Local   Foreign
TDA's Staff
Engineering
Assistant Field Engineers (2)             108       216        216        108        648          -     648
Field Inspectors, Surveyors
and Draftsmen (6)                        243       486        486        243      1,458        364   1,094
Water Regulation Expert                     -        67         68          -        135          -     135
Air Travel for Expatriate Staff            40        24         24         40        128          -     128
Total                                     391       793        794        391      2,369       364   2,005
Extension
Extension Specialist (rural uplift)    108          216        216        108        648          -     648
Extension Counterparts                     21        42         42         42        147        147       -
Total                                     129       258        258        150        795        147     648
Engineering Consultants
Field Engineer                              108       216        216        108        648          -     648
Design Engineer                             108       216        108          -        432          -     432
Home Office Staff                            54        54         54         54        216          -     216
Air Travel                                   30        20         20         30        100          -     100
Overheads, Fees and Model Tests             292       360        356        115      1,123          -   1,123
Total                                     592       866        754        307      2,519          -   2,519
Transport, Camp, Office and
Extension Equipment                          200       800          -          -      1,000          -   1,000
Operational Costs                              92       277        369        277      l?Q15      1,015        -



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Irrigation Works - Cost Estimates
Item Description         Unit    Unit Rate        Diversion Structure                  Syphon
(YRls)       Quantity      Cost (YRls)      Quantity      Cost (YRls)
Excavation - general                  m3          16.50        15,000         247,500         9,150          150,975
Excavation - rock                     m3         100.00        12,500       1,250,000           -              -
Backfill                              m3          14.50         7,000         101,500         7,850          113,825
Backfill compaction                   m3           6.50         7,000          45,500         1,850           12,025        U,
Cement                                 bag        30.00        33,700       1,011,000         1,500           45,000
Concrete                              m3         750.00         2,500       1,875,000           300          225,000
Cyclopean concrete                    m3         600.00         5,400       3,240,000           265          159,000
Reinforcement                          kg           6.00      300,000       1,800,000        20,000          120,000
Miscellaneous metal work               kg          25.00        8,850         221,250         2,250           56,250
Steel pipe for syphon (O.D. 1.11m)   m         1,100.00           -             -             1,000        1,100,000
Installing steel pipe                 m          310.00           -             -             1,000          310,000
Gabions                               m3         225.00         5,300       1,192,500           700          157,500
Rubble stone pitching                 m3         600.00         1,930       1,158,000           -              -
Grouted stone pitching                m2         110.00           -             -               935          102,850
Dry stone pitching                    m2          80.00                         -               750           60,000
Care and handling of water                                        -           600,000           -            250,000
12,742,250                     2,862,425
1t!1t
0 X



- 60 -                     ANNEX 4
Table 4
Item Description              Unit     Unit Rate/l             Canals
(YRls)       Quantity      Cost (YRis)
Improvement Al-Hudayd Supply Canal
Earth Work                              Km       128,000           4.5          576,000
Underpass                               No       204,000           1            204,000
Overshoot                               No        77,000           1             77,000
Drops                                            124,000           3            372,000
Bank protection                         L.S        -               -          1,000,000
Supply Canal on South Side
Earth work                              Km       277,000          15.5        4,294,000
Drop structures                         No       124,000          35          4,340,000
Check structures and offtakes           No       336,000           8          2,688,000
Subtotal (supply canals)                                                   13,551,000
Rehabilitating South Side Canals
Earth work                              Km        50,000          50          2,500,000
Drops                                   No        54,000          72          3,888,000
Turnouts                                No        15,000         144          2,160,000
Rehabilitating Al-Hudayd Canal
System Downstream Syphon
Earthwork                               Km        66,000           7            462,000
Drop structures                         No        68,000          50          3,400,000
Turnouts                                No        15,000         100          1,500,000
Subtotal (rehabilitating canals)                                           13,910,000
/1  The unit rates for job items are worked from the
feasibility level designs of the jobs.



- 61 -                       ANNEX 4
Table 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Sand Stabilization Costs
Local     Foreign       Total
----------YRLs '000--------
Experts and Staff
Sand stabilization/and zone
Forestry specialists                                 -          648          648
Counterpart staff (2)                                294        -            294
Training                                             -          144          144
Forest guards (6)                                    378        -            378
Sub-total                                          672        792       1,464
Equipment
(Refer Table 6)                                     -           604         604
Civil Works
Nursery office/store                                  40         60          100
Water storage tanks                                   56         24           80
Fencing                                              150        350          500
Tubewells installation (2)                           104        246          350
Sub-total                                          350        680       1,030
Recurring Costs
Labor for nursery                                    336        -            336
Surface protection by vegetation, pallisades,
or surface mulching (55 persons per ha
on 50% area)                                       528        132          660
Planting trees (20 persons per ha)                   480        -            480
Labor for up to five waterings
to 50% of plantation belts                         960        -            960
Raising shelter belts in Al Jarubah farm             270        -            270
Watering irrigated shelter belts                     140        -            140
Polythene bags, fertilizers, seeds, tools             48        192          240
Grading approach path                                 59        137          196
Operation and maintenance of watering
and transport equipment                            270        630          900
Sub-total                                     3,091       1,091       4,182
Total Base Cost                                      4,113      3,167        7,280
Contingencies: - physical                              344        237          581
- price                              2,626         861       3,487
Total                                          7,083      4,265       11,348



-62 -                         ANNEX 4
Table 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Equipment List
Quantity      Estimated Cost
--YRls '000---
Project Management
Vehicles (4 WD) long chassis                         2                80
Vehicles (4 WD) regular chassis                      4               140
Pickups (4 WD)                                       4               160
Air conditioners                                    40                80
Housing equipment and furniture                     LS               180
Survey equipment and office supplies                LS                50
Spare parts                                                          140
Sub-total                                                          830
Rural Uplift Unit
Audio-visual mobile unit                             1                50
Photography equipment including
projectors and screen                             LS                10
Vehicles (4 WD) regular chassis                      2                70
Spare parts                                                           40
Sub-total                                                          170
Sand Stabilization
Vehicles (4 WD) long chassis                         1                40
Pickups (4 WD)                                       2                80
Lorry 5 ton with shelving                            1                80
Movable water tanks with 2 hp pumps                  3                24
Water tankers 12,000-15,000 gallons capacity         3               300
Spare parts                                                           80
Sub-total                                                          604
Maintenance Equipment
Crawler tractor with dozer blade
(D6 or equivalent)                                1                440
(D5 or equivalent)                                1                360
Front end loader (3 CY, 4 WD)                        1               230
Motor grader G12 or equivalent                       1               380
Motor crane with 1/2 CY dragline
bucket and clam shell                              1               420
Dump truck                                           1               175
5-ton cargo trucks                                   2               140
Mobile workshop                                      1               230
Farm tractor with 1/2 CY front bucket
and back hoe                                       1               140
Miscellaneous tools for field and shop use          LS               180
Spare parts                                                          740
Sub-total                                                        3,435
Water Resources Study                                 LS                100



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV
(WADI RIMA II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cost and Rent RecoverY Analysis
1.5 Ha Fars,      1.5 Ha Farm              5 Ha Farm                     5 Ha Farm               10 Ha Farm      10 Ha Farm
Non-Perennial       Perennial                Perennial                  Non-Perennial             Perennial   Non-Perenni17
Owner Operator  Owner Operator  Owner Operator  Landlord  Owner Operator  Landlord-  LandlordL    Landlord                         Total Proiect
--------------------0----------------------------- (YR)* ----------------------------------------------------                         ('000 YR)
1.   Gross Value of Production                                     9,440            66,490             38,910          38,910       227,280           227,280     77,820        454,560               194,130
2.   Less Production (Cash) Costs                                 (4.170)             2.400            (6.680)         13.680        10.380           104.630     27,360        209.240                46290
3.   Equals Net Cash Income                                       13,610             64,090            45,590          25,230       216,900           122,650    50,460         245,320               147,840
4.   Less - Jmputed Value of Family Labor                             -                 600            (8,000)             -           2,680              -           -              -                     -
5.         - Imputed Value of Management /2                        1,500              1,500             5,000           2,500         5,000             2,500      5,000          5,000                 6,000
6.         - Imputed Return on Capital /3                             -                 -                  -               -             -                -           -
7.         - Allowance for Risk Uncertainty /4                       680              3,200             2,280           1,260        10,850             3,070       2,520        12,270                 7,390
8          - General Taxes                                         1,180              8.310             4,860           4.860        28,410            28,410      9,730         56,820                24.270
9.   Equals Rent/Surplus                                          10,250             50,480            41,450          16,610                          88,100     33,210        171,230               110,180
10.  Rent as % of Net Cash Income (%)                                  75                79                91               66            76               72          66             70                    75
11.  Volumetric Water Charges                                          -                 -                  -               -             -                -           -              -                     -
12.  Benefit Taxes                                                 1.930              3,090             6,57            6,570        10,360            10,360     13,140         20,720                12.490
13.  Total Direct Charges                                          1,930              3,090             6,570           6,570        10,360            10,360     13,140         20,720                12,490
14.  Rent Recovery Index (%)                                           18.8               6.1               15.9            39.6           6.3             11.8        39.6           11.1                  11.3
15.  Public Sector Outlays                                        10,910             10,910            36,280          36,280        36,280            36,280     72,560         72,560                58,050
16.  Cost Recovery Index                                               17.7              28.3               18.1            18.1          28.6             28.6        18.1           28.6                  21.5
17. Farmers' Income Per Capita at Full
Development (yr 10) - Farm Income                            1,510             3,135              5,675           2,750        10,880            5,290       5,500         10,570                      -
- Other                                 800                800               800             800           800               800        800            800                      -
- Total                               2,310            3,935               6,475           3,550        11,680            6,090       6,300         11,370                      -
18. Estimated Critical Consumption Level
in Year 10                                                  1,800             1,800               1,800           1,800         1,800            1,800       1,800          1,800                      -
19.  Estimated National Per Capita Income
in Year 10                                                  5,400             5,400              5,400            5,400         5,400            5,400       5,400          5,400                      -                 J 5
a a
*  Items 1-9, 11-13 and 15 are incremental present value over 25 years discounted at 107.
/1  Not farming.
a   YR 1,000 per ha for owner operators, YR 500 per ha for landlords.
/3 Number of incremental investments made except annual inputs.
/4 57, net value of output, to accommodate marketing risk.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV
(WADI RIMA II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Comparative Costs of Spate Irrigation Development in Tihama
Wadi Mawr /1                  Wadi Zabid Li                 Wadi Rima /
Total Cost   Cost per Ha      Total Cost   Cost per Ha      Total Cost   Cost per Ha
(US$o000)       (US$)         (us$oo00)        (us$)        (Us$o00)         (uS$)
Diversion Weirs and           14,790         821            17,760         1,040            3,990         500
Ancillary Works                                                                           (3,710)       (460)
Feeder Canals and              8,690         483            14,280           840           6,460          810
Canals Remodelling                                                                        (5,950)       (740)
Subtotal                   23,480       1,304            32,040         1,880          10,450        1,310
(9,660)     (1,210)
Administration and             7,960          442           14,900           880            1,710         230
Engineering                                                                               (1,560)       (520)
Total Base Cost               31,440       1,746            46,940         2,760           12,160       1,520
(11,220)     (1,400)
Physical and Price            18,210       1,010            5,350            310            4,560         570
Contingencies                                                                             (4,210)       (530)
Total Including               49,650       2,760           52,290          3,070           16,720       2,090
Contingencies                                                                            (15,430)     (1,930)
Cost per Beneficiary             590                        2,100                             810         -
(total base cost)                                                                           (420)        -
Total Number of               53,000                       24,920                          15,000         -
Beneficiaries
Total Area (ha)               18,000                       17,000                           8,000         -
/1  In 1978 prices.
/2  In early 1979 prices.  ( ) in 1978 prices.



- 65 -                            ANNEX 5
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIKA II)
Farm-Gate Prices used in the Economic Analysis
(1979 Constant Prices)
1980           1981           1982-89        1985-90        1990-2015
Sorghum /1             US$   197             199            200            202            202
(White & Red)         YRls 1,135          1,146           1,152          1,165          1,165
Maize L                US$   216             217            220            224            224
YRls 1,244          1,250          1,270          1,290           1,290
Sesame /1              US$   506             553            553            570            574
YRls 2,914          3,185          3,185          3,283          3,306
Cotton /1              US$   594             627            627            641            648
YRls 3,421          3,611          3,611          3,690           3,732
Bananas LI             US$   314             311            311            329            328
YRls 1,808          1,791          1,791          1,895           1,889
Watermelons/2          US$   174             174            174            174            174
YRls 1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000           1,000
Sweetmelon_/2          US$   260             260            260            260            260
YRls 1,500          1,500          1,500          1,500           1,500
Papayas /2             US$   521             521            521            521            521
YRls 3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000           3,000
Onions /2              US$   833             833            833            833            833
YRls 4,500          4,500          4,500          4,500           4,500
Stover /2
Sorghum              US$    16              16             16             16             16
YRls    95             95              95             95             95
Millet & Maize       US$    11              11             11             11             11
YRls    65             65             65              65             65
/1  Sorghum, Maize, Sesame, Cotton and Bananas were treated as tradables; accordingly
the calculation of farm-gate prices for these goods were based on international
prices (Bank projections) which were adjusted in each particular case to allow for
transport margins.
/2  Watermelon, Sweetmelon, Papayas, Onions and Stover were treated as non-tradables
and local 1979 prices were adjusted by the Standard Conversion factor.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
('000 YRls)
Years
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7  Year 8   Year 9   Year 10    11-25
Investment Costs
Project ManagemertL             2,6i8    5,225    2,413    1,159        496      496       496      496       496      496        496
Irrigation Works2 E            11,499   22,995   22,995        719      719      719       719      719       719      719        719
Tota .e                   14,117   28,220   25,408    1,878    1,215    1,215    1,215    1,215    1.215    1,215          1,215
Incremental Operating Costs         -         -       -193      -602   -1,046   -1,357      -963      -283      -13      717        717
Total Project Costs         14,117   28,220   25,215    1,276        169      -142      252      932      1,202    1,932      1,932
Incremental Benefits                -         -        606    2,282    3,007    7,987   13,528   20.330    26,o40   31,992    31,992                  
Net Incremental Benefits        -14,117   -28,220  -24,609   1,006    2,838    8.129   13,276   19.398    24,838   30.060    30,o60
Internal Rate of Return (Economic)
1.  Irrigation Development (Wadi Rima II)                                 19.7%
Sensitivity Analysis
a.  Increase of 20-~ in cos's and decrease of 202' in benefits        14.64
b.  Increase of 20-K in costs and benefits lagged 1 year              15.31o
2.  Thotal Project (Irrigation Development, Sand Stabilization,
and Home Economics)                                                 17.2%
3. Combined Wadi Rima I and Wadi Rima II
24.8i
13 
1 After Year 4 costs are reduced to one-half of costs for local staff in Year 4 and one-fourth of operational expenses.
7 Maintenance costs after Year 4 are calculated at 1.25% of construction costs.
Includes physical contingencies.
Farnm production costs.  Negative due to decline in areas cropped.
&.      (



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA 11)
Organization Chart
|GCovernment of Yemen Arab Republic|
(Ministry of Agriculture)
Institutional Support
Cent ral 
Agricultural Research ......... Tihama Development Authority                                                                                          ur
S;ln^,n                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Board of Directors                             Credit Bnk
Advisors                                                                                                  Manager Agriculture
Consultants                                    DrtoGeeaDretrenalCredit Fund
r    Mo ager  |                | Director Engineern                                         Director Agriculture             Director Finance and           Field Manager          Field Manager
|   Surdtu I Farm  l           l     Department      l                                  l       Production                      Administration             Tihama Porjects         Dther Projects
Wa    Rm            |     Cnrl                    Ohr  Wadi Rima                            r Other          n                                 Assistant manaiger|| Assistant Managers|
Project Staff          Workshop              Projects Staff           Projt                  rojects Staff                                       Wadi Rima             Other Poriects
Extension and                                   Personnel                    Credit
aDnd                                                                                                                L t                            erProtection  udget  ier
Constrduction                                                     I      Sn                
1  Payment Estimates                                        -|   Stabilization    |                         L    Accounts
Hd   d o    Iqy                                                   |      Veterinary    |r   Internal                                              Prcrmnt
u    Services  |                         L   Audit                      Distribution
F     Stores
a rcese.sch and    lEvaluation                                                                                       Casi
L  Mltplca:o 
World Bank - 20440
'1 x'!
rt 4
I.- LJ



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA 11)
Implementation Schedule
IDA FISCAL YEAR                  1980              1981                       1982                    1983                      1984
CALENDER YEAR                          1980                     1981                     1982                      1983                      1984
IRRIGATION WORKS
Diversion Weir, Syphon                laasamiuusmui                                                           -
Canals Construction and Rehabilitation       maaa                                                                 -
PROJECT STAFF HOUSING                                        __________-_-___.
EQUIPMENT
(Maintenance and Other)
SAND STABILIZATION
Civil Works                            luusassisas
Imnplementing Program
*auumuauumamugs Bids and Contract Award                                                                       World Bank - 20441
It~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          X



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA 11)
Crop Calendar for Spate Irrigated Areasl/
J dln uary    February       March          April          May            June          July         August       September      October       Novernber     December
Sorghum (White)       -_   -s                                               __       m __11a1amIS   I_ _    ____              tssaiSo   - {WN I Segl
Sorghum (Red)                                                 msms a a aI
Sesame              am...." aames a                                                                                                                  _m -i,
Cotton                                                                                                                   a.. aiiso..
Millet                                                                                                     alassss a_W  _ d
Maize                                           a I                                                                      los aes ma
Watermelons                                    gsisa a a a am.m_D                                                         aDatame                                       'ro _i
Sweetmelons                                     alas a a                                                                 msama                                    - a
Onions2'            _    > ?'                                                                                             a          amamamaamin
LEGEND
aaaaalaaaaaalaaalaa Land Preparation and Seeding/Transplanting
Growing
~-~-~-~-~--  Harvesting
e    - _- _  _  _  _*Ratoon Crop (Sorghum White)                                                                                                 World Bank - 20442
11 Introduction of new (ctiltivars) and application of applied research recommendations may change crops growing period.                                                                              P 
2/ Tranlsplants are grown in nursery from seeds.                                                                                                                                                      Li IX






-70-                   ANNEX 6
-70 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (WADI RIMA II)
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
General Reports and Studies
1. TDA's Technical Bulletin No. 6 on Research Results and Conclusions
Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Montane Plains and Wadi Rima (MPWR) Project - Initial Development
Prospects, Volume 2 Wadi Rima - British Ministry of Overseas
Development (ODM)
2. Irrigation and Agricultural Development in Wadi Rima, Volumes I
and II - British Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM)
3. Wadi Rima Irrigation Development, Feasibility Study; Interim Report -
DHV Consulting Engineers
4. Wadi Rima Irrigation Development, Feasibility Study, Volume I, Main Report -
DHV Consulting Engineers
5. Wadi Rima Irrigation Development, Feasibility Study, Volume II, Annexes -
DHV Consulting Engineers
Other Selected Papers
1. Crop Budgets
2. Farm Budgets
3. Terms of Reference
4. Cropping Patterns and Yields with Two or Three Irrigations
5. Table of Monthly Water Requirements
6. Assumptions used in Economic Analysis-
7. Crop Marketing






IBRD 14320
K                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1979
Sadoh                                           NEJSKKK KU           ILeRAO                                                                           40 oNr  60' Y EMEN  ARA B REPUBLIC
~~ .~~ )       K LU0-       ERLk                                   BARA
0  US  )               E             M esO  2 50hPOSAUDI ARABIA                                                     TTIHAMA  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I
h ,< =0  I   ---+-, 5   -COAAN ir                                            Wadi Rima Project Area
2 '.                                                         \                     SUDN i  ,  3 --  SouSbers- 5Apply Canal                   Motor Rooss
-~~~0  SUDAN                                                                                  'iii~~~E'Chk-r. 5trot-re  with Offtab.k___
X)7,0                  OFRYEM Chec k D-op                                                                                                                     Structures /  Oecrop    Roads under Wadi R,mo I Pra1ecr
@,<F ~~~~~ JJJ __~~~ OEM RoEP    51                                                                                        -+--- {Dd3i =FlMlsrop '  Stn oizrUct Areos       -'-  -rlc oudre
\/1                                             -                          j 4  /         =====-  Syphonl                                    _   _   Approsenate BoUndooOes of Shoikhdoms
J-    *Sonae  2>  oH         U                                                                Sor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.d Stabiliztio  Amo            roat ondre
rU'P A1   \    >oD    ' 23  :   EF* @i;'t            mintes                                    EII1   Pump Irrigation and Other Uses
E  IOPIA     SA         5   e                            N                         Canals tA be Rehab,htated                          RegAlar Spate Irrigation
I                                                                      / \  e. \l       -  ----  EEs-tng Canals                                      CanrooSs (25 Meters 100 Meters on Hlls)
-           9'       *D\ iaeaor                                                                                                                                                    -        Wadis
AREA Eae                                                                                                                                                                                    *     Major Villges
K LOMETERS       L_6_                         _
155    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   PRO  [ES                 005~~~~~MLE
Ototia              REPUBLt                                                                                                                                            /       // 4A
L-                                                                                                                                       -      - )  -   -M-E-
rn    K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~>-' ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~         ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ O                                                                                                       ~I
ISo ~   ~        ~       ZAA I
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
~~~~~~'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~I                                                    W   
91 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ JD
-   ~~~~-iI-KU~~~~~~S- 7                                                                                                                                                                          AiOr~~~~~~~~~ro4RABA
AlM-O                                                                                                                                                                        1
LK



