GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1976, between THE COMMONWEALTH
OF THE BAHAMAS (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Water and Sewerage Corporation (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obli-
gations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guaran-
tee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Negative Pledge
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets
(as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or permitting the
creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative sub-
divisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-5-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Guarantor;
excluding the assets of The Bahamas Development Corporation and the
assets of The Bahamas Industrial Company Limited in Grand Bahama.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Churchill Building
P. 0. Box N 3017
Nassau, Bahamas
Cable address:
MINFIN
Nassau, Bahamas
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
By its Treasurer
/s/ O.M. Watson
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ G.K.Wiese
Program Director
Latin America and the Caribbean


