CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1320 BM
FINANCING AGREEMENT
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 10, 1976


﻿FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1976, between THE COMMONWEALTH
OF THE BAHAMAS (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Water and Sewerage Corporation (hereinafter called
the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan
in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that the Guarantor agree to provide financing
for the Project and for other requirements of the Borrower as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to pro-
vide said financing to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. To assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Guarantor undertakes that it will (i) provide the
Borrower, as and when needed, with equity capital equivalent to
four million four hundred thousand dollars ($4,400,000); and
(ii) make a loan to the Borrower in an amount equivalent to six
million six hundred thousand dollars ($6,600,000), on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of the Guarantee Agreement or the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out
of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor further undertakes (i) that, with
effect from January 1, 1977, it will take all such action within
its power as shall be necessary to permit the Borrower to adjust
its tariffs for water and sewerage services on New Providence
Island in order to obtain revenues sufficient to carry out the
Borrower's obligations under Section 5.06 (a) of the Loan Agree-
ment; and (ii) that, until December 31, 1977, it will make grant
funds promptly available to the Borrower to enable the Borrower
to meet its cash requirements in excess of operating costs.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. The Guarantor shall reimburse the Borrower, or
cause the Borrower to be reimbursed, for the cost of water and
sewerage services provided by the Borrower on all islands other
than New Providence Island.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Guarantor and of the Bank thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Guarantor:
Financial Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Churchill Building
P.O. Box N 3017
Nassau, Bahamas
Cable address:
MINFIN
Nassau, Bahamas
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


