CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1320 BM
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
Dated September 10, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION (hereinafter called the
Borrower), established under the provisioas of The Water and
Sewerage Corporation Act, 1976, of the Commonwealth of The Bahamas
(hereinafter called the Guarantor).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower intends to enter into a further loan agree-
ment (hereinafter called the Caribbean Development Bank Loan Agree-
ment) for a loan equivalent to three million two hundred and forty-
five thousand dollars ($3,245,000), which said loan will also be
used to assist in the financing of the Project and is hereinafter
referred to as the CDB Loan;
(C) The Borrower intends to enter into further loan agree-
ments (hereinafter called the Commercial Bank Loan Agreements)
for loans in a total amount of six million dollars ($6,000,000),
which said loans will also be used to assist in the financing
of the Project and are hereinafter referred to as the Commercial
Bank Loans;
(D) The Guarantor will provide financing for the Project
and for other requirements of the Borrower as set forth in the
financing agreement (hereinafter called the Financing Agreement)
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank; and


﻿-2-
(E) The Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing to make the Loan to the Borrower on the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal arount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, under
the supervision of a Project Manager acceptable to the Bank, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order for the Borrower to prepare plans and
specifications, and bidding docunerts, and to supervise the con-
struction of the Proiect, the Borrower shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plant, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction (and operation) of the facilities included in the Proj-
ect and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, within one year of the date
of this Agreement (or such other date as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank) establish a training unit that will be
responsible for introducing and carrying out, in a manner and in
accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank, programs
of staff training to ensure that an adequate number of trained
staff are available to operate and maintain its plant, equipment,
properties and facilities.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(i)       at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial and public
utility practices and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management; and
(ii)      cause its plant, equipment, properties and
facilities to be maintained and all necessary
renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in


﻿-9
accordance with appropriate engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not, without the prior
written consent of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its properties or assets which shall be required
for the efficient operation of its business or undertakings.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall at all times take all steps
necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, pri-
vileges, licenses, concessions and franchises which are needed
or useful in the conduct of its business or undertakings.


﻿-*10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing princlples consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the B'An  zhall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt excel  As otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writiag.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as secu&Ly for any debt, such lien will Ipso facto


﻿- 11 -
equall'y and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) promptly employ accoun-
tants or accounting consultants, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist the Borrower in improving its accounting pro-
cedures; and (ii) within one year of the date of this Agreement,
or such other date as may agreed by the Bank, introduce cost con-
trol, budget and accrual accounting systems acceptable to the
Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower undertakes that, by December 31,
1976, or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, it will have taken appropriate action to recover
all payments due to it and in arrears for 120 days or more, and
that, with effect from such date it will take prompt action to
recover outstanding accounts as they become overdue for payment.
Section 5.06. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03
of the Financing Agreement and except as the Guarantor, the Bank
and the Borrower may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall establish


﻿- 12 -
and maintain tariffs for water and sewerage services on New Provi-
dence Island which will provide revenues sufficient to produce an
annual rate of return on the value of the Borrower's net fixed
assets in operation of not less than zero per cent (0%) for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 1977, of not less than one per cent
(1%) for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1978, and of not less
than two per cent (2%), three per cent (3%) and four per cent (4%),
respectively, for the fiscal years ending December 31 in 1979, 1980,
1981 and thereafter.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall not, prior to the Closing
Date, make any investment or undertake any project or development
(other than the carrying out of the Project) which would result
in estimated capital expenditures by the Borrower exceeding in any
fiscal year the equivalent of $500,000, unless prior notice there-
of shall have been given to the Bank and the Bank shall be satis-
fied that such investment or undertaking will not adversely affect
the financial condition of the Borrower or the efficiency of the
Borrower's management and personnel or the carrying out of the
Project.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue of the
Borrower for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such in-
currence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not
less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower including the
debt to be incurred.


﻿- 13 -
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt incurred including debt
assumed or guaranteed by the Borrower, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand
or less than one year after its incurrence;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes
any modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (i) under a contract or loan agreement,
on the date the contract or loan agreement providing for such
debt is entered into and, (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been
entered into;
(c) the term "net revenue" means gross revenue from water
and sewerage services, less all operating expenses, including
adequate maintenance, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if any,
and administrative expenses, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of The Bahamas debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,


﻿- 14-
if such other currency is not obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall: (i) cause a usage monitoring
and tariff study to be carried out and completed by June 30, 1977,
or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank and the Bor-
rower, and will consult the Bank regarding the terms of reference
for and the conclusions arrived at as a result of such study; and
(ii) take all such action in its power as shall be necessary to
introduce a new tariff structure for water and sewerage services
based on such study by January 1, 1978, or such other date as
may be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall, without the prior consent of the Bank, have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for the
suspension of its operations.
(b) The Guarantor shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Financing Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall have become unable to pay its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by the Borrower or by others whereby any of the property of the
Borrower shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(d) A change shall have been made in The Water and Sewerage
Corporation Act, 1976, of the Guarantor which change, in the
judgment of the Bank, will materially and adversely affect the
financial condition or operations of the Borrower.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDB Loan or any of the
Commercial Bank Loans made to the Borrower


﻿-16-
to assist in the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the Caribbean Development
Bank Loan Agreement or the Commercial Bank
Loan Agreements, or
(B) The CDB Loan or any of the Commercial Bank
Loans shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or premsturing is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreements, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that, any of the events
specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) or in sub-paragraph
(e) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Caribbean Develop-
ment Bank Loan Agreement and the Commercial Bank Loan Agreements,
on behalf of the respective parties thereto, have been duly autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action, and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of such
agreements or the right to make withdrawals thereunder, except
only the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled;
and
(b) that the execution and delivery of the Financing Agree-
ment, on behalf of the Guarantor, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Caribbean Development Bank Loan Agreement and
the Commercial Bank Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the respec-
tive parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in
accordance with their respective terms; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Guarantor, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 9, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the G.neral Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Water and Sewerage Corporation
P.O. Box N-8156
Nassau, Bahamas
Cable address:
Water and Sewerage Corporation
C/- Ministry of Public Works
Nassau, Bahamas


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ G.K.Wiese
Program Director
Latin America and the Caribbean
WATER SEWERAGE CORPORATION
By 1sf   B.C.Braynen
Authorized Representative
(SEAL)
The Common Seal of the Borrower has been duly affixed and
authenticated by the signature of:
/s/ Allan J. Benjamin
Member of the Board of the Borrower, and the
signature above of Bruce Braynen, M.P., Deputy
Chairman of the Borrower


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts
of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and Mate-         6,500,000         100% of foreign
rials for Part A (ex-                        expenditures
cluding vessels) and
Part D of the Project
(2) Civil Works for             1,200,000         20%
Parts A and D
of the Project
(3) Technical Assis-              160,000         100% of foreign
tance for Part E                             expenditures
of the Project
(4) Consultants Serv-             820,000        100% of foreign
ices for Parts A                             expenditures
and D of the Proj-
ect, and Project
Manager
(5) Unallocated                 1,320,000
TOTAL      10,000,000


﻿-22-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of a country other than the Guar-
antor and for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Categories (1), (2) and (4) on account of expenditures incurred
after October 1, 1975, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $1,000,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has estimated that the amount of the Loan then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank


﻿- 23 -
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have determined that the procurement of
any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opiion, represents the amount of such expen-
ditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.   The expansion and improvement of the water supply on
New Providence Island by means of:
(i) a water conservation program including leak detection
and repair, and the ins"Allation and repair of water
meters;
(ii) improvement of the operation of well-fields on New
Providence Island;
(iii) importation of water from Andros Island in vessels
operating between Morgans Bluff harbor on Andros Island
and Arawak Cay off New Providence Island;
(iv) construction of vessel unloading, reception and trans-
mission facilities for additional water delivered at
Arawak Cay;
(v) improvement of the water,distribution system and in-
stallation of additional water storage facilities on
New Providence Island; and
(vi) rehabilitation of the Blue Hills desalination plant on
New Providence Island.


﻿- 25 -
Part B.   The development of additional water supply on Andros
Island with delivery and vessel loading facilities
at Morgans Bluff harbour by means of:
(i) well-fields and trenches, pipelines and pumping
stations for the abstraction of groundwater;
(ii) transmission mains, pumping stations, storage
tanks and loading facilities at the docks; and
(iii) access roads, workshops and ancillary facilities.
Part C.   Deepening and improvement of the access to, and harbour
at, Morgans Bluff to facilitate entry of about 27 foot
draft vessels.
Part D.   Improvement of the sanitary sewerage system of the City
of Nassau by means of:
(i) the rehabilitation of the existing sanitary sewer system
in Nassau; and
(ii) the construction of a ships' waste disposal sewer line
from Prince George's Wharf to the existing sanitary
sewer system.
Part E.   Technical assistance for the training unit to be estab-
lished by the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1979                                      294,000
March 1, 1980                                          294,000
September 1, 1980                                      294,000
March 1, 1981                                          294,000
September 1, 1981                                      294,000
March 1, 1982                                          294,000
September 1, 1982                                      294,000
March 1, 1983                                          294,000
September 1, 1983                                      294,000
March 1, 1984                                          294,000
September 1, 1984                                      294,000
March 1, 1985                                          294,000
September 1, 1985                                      294,000
March 1, 1986                                          294,000
September 1, 1986                                      294,000
March 1, 1987                                          294,000
September 1, 1987                                      294,000
March 1, 1988                                          294,000
September 1, 1988                                      294,000
March 1, 1989                                          294,000
September 1, 1989                                      294,000
March 1, 1990                                          294,000
September 1, 1990                                      294,000
March 1, 1991                                          294,000
September 1, 1991                                      294,000
March 1, 1992                                          294,000
September 1, 1992                                      294,000
March 1, 1993                                          294,000
September 1, 1993                                      294,000


﻿- 27 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
March 1, 1994                                           294,000
September 1, 1994                                       294,000
March 1, 1995                                           294,000
September 1, 1995                                       294,000
March 1, 1996                                           298,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.35%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.90%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                     7.10%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    8.00%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.90%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods, works and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for works estimated to cost less than the equiv-
alent of $500,000, being works capable of being competently ex-
ecuted by contractors in the Commonwealth of The Bahamas of whom
there shall be at least three available to execute such works,
shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with procurement procedures of the
Borrower satisfactory to the Bank. If foreign firms wish to
participate in the bidding they will be entitled to do so in
accordance with the said procedures.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 30 -
bid the c.i.f. Nassau price for imported goods, or the ex-factory
price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties
and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar
taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii)
the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Commonwealth of The Bahamas may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Commonwealth of The Bahamas if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bor-
rower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Com-
monwealth of The Bahamas equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 31 -
(2) Grou7 B! all other bids offering goods mnufactured
in the Commonwealth of The Bahawas.
(3) Group C: biis offering any other goodi,
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first ccmpared
ameng themselves, excluding av customs duties and other import
Laxes on guods to be imported and a.y sales cr similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A af-
ter adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.


﻿32 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts other than those mentioned in
Part B.1 of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received together with the reasons for the intended award,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 33 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to all contracts mentioned in Part B.1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


