Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LM.'* 3 15 8 -IA P                           Report No. 8115-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 20, 1989
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This docoesent has a resticted distnbuton and may be used by rplents only in the performance of
their officW duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wold Bank athorizatioon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1989)
Currency Unit I Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00      =  Rp 1,770
Rp 1 million - US$565
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
Balitbang          s   Office of Educational and Cultural Research and
Development, Ministry of Education and Culture
Bappenas           :   National Development Planning Board
BP3                I   Parents' association fee
DGHE               s   Directorate General of Higher Education
Dikdasmen (DGPS)  :   Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education
Dikmenum           :   Directorate of General Secondary Education, Ministry of
Education and Culture
DPDOS              :   Data Processing Dikmenum Operational Systems
DPP                s   Redistribution of SPP by Government to schools
EDC                :   Examination Research and Development Center
FKIP               :   Teacher training faculties located within universities
GTZ                :   German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IKIP                    Secondary teacher training college
IPS                :   Social sciences
Kanwil             :   Provincial education administrative office
Kepmen                 Ministerial Decree
LAKEPRO            :   Budget Analysis System
MGMP and MGBS      :   Teacher organizations
MIS                :   Management Information System
1Ms                    H Material Management System
MOEC               :   Ministry of Education and Culture
PCR                s   Project Completion Report
PIU                :   Project Implementation Unit
PKG                     In-service teacher training program - first phase
PKGIS              :   PKGISPKG Information System
PPS                :   Supply of Science Equipment by School Response
PMCC               :   Project Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
Pusdiklat          :   MOEC Center for Staff Training
Repelita V         s   Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1988/89-1994/95)
SAS               :   School Administration System
SD                :   Primary school
SMA                :   Senior general secondary education
SMP               I   Junior general secondary education
SOIS              X    School Information System
SPG                :   Primary teacher training school
SPKG              :   In-service teacher training program - second phase,
conducted at local levels
SPMCC             s   Secretariat to the PMCC
SPP               s   Public school fees contributed by parents
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic  Data  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  v
Loan and ProjectSummary  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  vi
1.  BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
The School System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
School System Performance ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  2
Quality Issues  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..  3
Teacher Upgrading Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Program Issues in Teacher Upgrading . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Materials Production Issues in Teacher Upgrading  . . . .     7
Managerial and Organizational Issues in Teacher
Upgrading ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Environmental Studies Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
School Science Equipment Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Examinations Issues ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
Management Issues ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
MOEC Data Management  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
MOEC Management ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Secondary Education Finance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
GovernmentStrategy .. .                                       16
Experience with Previous Projects    ..17
Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
This report is based upon the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Indonesia from June 26 to July 21, 1989. The mission consisted of A. Aime
(Mission Leader, Senior Educator, Planner), M. Mertaugh (Senior Economist),
R. Montague (Architect), A. Somerset (General Education/Examination
Specialist, Consultant) and G. Alyward (Science and Management, Consultant).



- ii -
Page No.
2.THE PROJECT .                          ....18
2.    TEPOET .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  i
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . .  . . . . .     18
Quality Improvement Activities  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Teacher Upgrading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
The PKG Training Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Strengthening Sanggar-Based PKG Training . . . . . . . .    20
Flexible Implementation Schedul.es  . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Subject Consultants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Provincial Consultants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
Instructor Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Guru Inti Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Administration and Principal Training  . . . . . . . . .    21
Language Instructional Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
Materials and Equipment   . . . . ..22
Data Collection and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Project Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
Institutionalization/Career Pathways . . . . . . . . . .    22
Decentralization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Environmental Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .      23
Supply of School Science Equipment  . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Equipment Supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Prototype Equipment .25
Regional Science Equipment Management and
Maintenance Training .25
Training of Laboratory Technicians  . . . . . . . . . .    25
Strengthening of Examinations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Examinations Operation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...      26
Question Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Training  .                      . . . . . . . . . . .     27
Consultancies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Applied Research  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . .     28
Equipment         .         ..                             28
Management Improvement Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Data Management (Management Information System and DPDOS) .    28
Management Training Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
Policy Studies and Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . .    31
Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Status of Project Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33



- lil -
Page No.
3.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       33
Costs   .  .    .  .    .    .    .   .    .    .  .    .    .  .   .    .  .    .  .    .    .   .  .  .    .    .    .  33
Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  38
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       39
Accounts, Audits and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     40
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS .40
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      41
Tables in Report
1.  Indonesia - A Model for Educational Quality
2.  Science Equipment Supply, 1989/90 to 1994195
3.  Examination Process
4.  Summary of Project Costs by Component
5.  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
6.  Financing Plan
7.  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category
ANNEXES
1.  Chart 1: Education Structure, 1989
Chart 2: Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
Chart 3s Organization of the Directorate of General Secondary Education
2.  Number of Schools, Students and Teachers by Type of School in
1987/88
3.  Data Processing Dikmenum Operational Systems (DPDOS)
4.  Summary of MOEC Policy Statements - May 22, 1989
5.  Estimated PKG Project Costs
6.  Overview of Training Flows:  Sanggar-based PKG System
Implementation Schedules for Sanggar-based PKG Teacher Training
Activities
Decision Matrix for Sanggar-based PKG Training
7.  Project Organization PKG



- Iv -
ANNEXES (Cont'd)
8.   Career Pathways in Sanggar-based System PKG
9.   Roles and Responsibilities of Provincial-Level and Sanggar-Level PKG
Staff
10.   Management of Examination System
11.   Links Dikmenum-DPDOS and Pusat Informatika
12.   Indicators for Pusat Informatika and DPDOS Project Coordination
13.   Structure for Project Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
14.   Technical Assistance and Fellowships
15.   Key Implementation Indicators
16.   Implementation Schedule
17.   Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
18.   Summary of Project Costs
19.   Project Costs by Project Implementation Unit
20.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
21.   Selected Documents and Data available in the Project File
Maps IBRD 20514



INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Basic Data /a
General
Population (millions)                                              178.0
Annual growth (Z)                                                     2.1
Labor force (millions)                                               63.7
Participation rate (C)                                              53
Employment by sector (Z):
Agriculture                                                        55
Industry                                                          13
Services                                                          32
GDP per capita (US$) (1987)                                        40O
Education
Labor force by education
level                              Primary & below    Secondary        Hither
Number (millions)                           52.7            10.2            0.8
Distribution (Z)                            82.7            16.0            1.3
Enrollment (millions)                                 Secondary
Primary     Junior       Senior      Higher
Public                               24.8        3.7          1.6         0.4
Private                               3.4        2.8          2.2         0.6
Total                          28.2         6.5          3.8        1.0
As 2 of age group                   115         53           37          10
Public Education Budget (1982/83)
As percentage of GDP                                                      3.1
As percentage of total budget for public expenditures                    13.4
/a Data are for 1987/88 unless otherwise stated.
Sources: Ministry of Education and Culture; 1985 Intercensal Population
Survey, Bureau of Statistics, Jakarta; Country Economic Memorandum,
World Bank, 1989.



- vi -
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia.
Amount:                US$154.2 million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The objectives of the proposed project are to improve
the quality and management of secondary education. The
main quality inputs are: (a) upgrading of teachers in
science, mathematics, English, Bahasa Indonesia and
social sciences including training of teacher instruc-
tors and key teachers, (b) improving sustainability of
quality improvements and provision of permanent budget
suppo;t for equipment and materials for quality science
instruction; (c) supplying the needed curriculum as well
as student and teacher materials; (d) assisting with the
development of an environmental studies program for
secondary schools; (e) procuring new stocks of science
equipment in direct response to individual schools'
needs; (f) assisting with the development of prototype
science equipment; (g) training teachers and laboratory
assistants in the use and maintenance of science equip-
ment; and (h) establishing a permanent and formalized
examination system.   The management inputs are:
(a) assisting the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC) to undertake a management information system
study with specific attention given to personnel, logis-
tics and financial operations; (b) assisting the MOEC to
improve its data collection, processing, management and
feedback to administrative offices and schools at all
levels; (c) assisting the MOEC to implement its new
integrated management training policy and to undertake
practical 'hands-on" management training activities at
the central, provincial and district levels for senior
managers and principals; (d) conducting workshops and
seminars in evaluation and monitoring to improve the
management of education programs; and (e) financing
studies to: (i) define recurrent educational inputs
required to dispense quality secondary education;
(ii) develop measures to improve MOEC support for
private education; and (iii) develop policy options for
targeting public support to improve education quality in
deprived areas.



- vii -
Benefits and Risks:   The project would improve secondary education quality
and equity through: improved teacher training programs
benefitting about 200,000 teachers, 5,300 key teachers
and 150 teacher instructors; the supply of instructional
materials and science equipment benefitting about
660,000 teachers and 10,000,000 students; and improved
examinations which would benefit about 39 million stu-
dents, and by assisting MOEC to respond better to needs
by identifying essential inputs necessary to impart
qualitative secondary education. The actions taken to
ensure sustainability of quality improvements in
secondary education would be the Bank's first attempt in
the sector to address sustainability issues head-on.
Management would be improved through management training
of: about 640 subject supervisors; about 25 lqng-term
and 2,500 short-term officersiteachers in the management
and operation of examinations; about 500 supervisors by
giving them largely decentralized and more relevant
management training at the regional and district levels;
about 300 administrative staff in data processing; about
25,000 principals in combined pedagogical and management
skills; and about 20,000 middle-level officers at the
provincial level and 200,000 at the district level
concentrating on operational training in areas such as
personnel, finance and logistics using a 60-70Z 'hands-
on" type of training. The latter training would improve
the general administration of the MOEC, standardize data
collection, and improve the feedback and utilization of
the data, thus facilitating sound decision making.
Also, by giving attention to the administrative process
at the provincial and district levels and updating
operational regulations and analysis of financial
resources, necessary to facilitate the best utilization
of the subsector's limited resources, sustainability
would be increased. Project risks are of two kindss
(a) rigidity of budgetary procedures and partisanship on
the part of the units within MOEC might undermine sus-
tainability of the quality improvement measures being
introduced under the project, and (b) the quality
improvement measures themselves could suffer if key
staff for teacher upgrading and project implementation
are not appointed on a timely basis.   Risks of the
first kind are being addressed through agreements relat-
ing to permanent financing of the key inputs for
improved education quality, through the MOEC's new
policy on integrated management, through the commitment
during Repelita V (already started in the 1989/90 bud-
get) to increase allocations for recurrent expenditures,
and through the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Govern-
ment on financing issues in the education sector. The
second risk is being addressed by Government assurances
relating to project staffing and monitoring and by the
recent approval of a new HOEC career structure.



- viii-
Estimated Costs:
Local Foreign Total
---- US$ million
Improvement of secondary educaticn quality
Teacher upgrading through PKG/SPKG training       64.4    18.1    82.5
Developing an environmental program                0.4      0.0     0.4
Improving the quality of science education:
Procurement and distribution of science
equipment                                     14.4    42.0    56.4
Testing and quality control                      0.7      0.8     1.5
Regional science equipment management
and maintenance training                       3.4      0.8     4.2
Strengthening the examinations system              6.1      4.9    11.0
Subtotal education quality                     89.4    66.6   156.0
Strengthening education management
MOEC management information system                  1.0     1.3      2.3
DIXMENUM operational systems                       2.8      2.4     5.2
Management training program                         5.9     4.7    10.6
Studies/project preparation                        0.9      0.8     1.7
Subtotal education management                  10.6      9.2    19.8
Coordination, monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation                             1.4      0.1     1.5
Baseline cost                                 101.4    75.9   177.3
Contingencies:
Physical                                           1.5      5.0     6.5
Price increase                                    22.5    17.1    39.6
Subtotal                                       24.0    22.1    46.1
Total project cost La                         125.4    98.0   223.4
/a Includes local taxes estimated at US$3.1 million equivalent.



- ix -
Financing Plant
Local   Foreign  Total
-   US$ million  -
Government of Indonesia                              69.2     -       69.2
Bank                                                 56.2    98.0   154.2
Total financing                               125.4    98.0   223.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
1-^-^^^^^----- US$ million… ----------------
Annual                    6.2    9.4   16.8   36.7   30.9   30.1   24.1
Cumulative                6.2   15.6   32.4   69.1  100.0  130.1  154.2
Rate of Return:                   Not applicable
Hs                                RIBRD 20514



INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MAMAGEMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. The School Syotem
1.1       The formal education system in Indonesia consists of a six-year
primary school cycle, junior and senior secondary cycles of three years each
and post-secondary education ranging from one to six years. The structure of
the education system, the organization of the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOEC) and the organization of the Directorate of General Secondary
Education (Dikmenum) are found in Annex 1. A summary of the number of
students and teachers by type of school in 1987/88 is provided in Annex 2. As
places in public schools are limited, private schools offer 441 of junior and
62Z of senior secondary places.
1.2       Junior secondary education is offered principally in general
academic schools. Although vocational schools accounted for over 30? of the
enrollments in public junior secondary schooling in the early 1970s, there is
clearly a trend toward elimination of vocational schooling at this level.
More than 97X of junior secondary enrollments are now in general, academic
schools (Sekolah Menengah Pertama, or SMP). Technical junior secondary
schools (Sekola Teknik, or ST) account for just over 2Z of total junior secon-
dary enrollments; home economics junior secondary schools (Sekolah
Kesejahteraan Keluarga Pertama, or SKKP) account for less than 0.5 of enrvoll-
ments at that level. Junior commercial secondary schools (Sekolah Meneztah
Ekonomi Pertama, or SMEP) have been phased out entirely. The trend towards
elimination of vocational specializations at the junior secondary level is
consistent with the international trend to offer a single, academic program at
this level.
1.3       Senior secondary education consists of a three-year cycle after the
completion of junior secondary schooling with about two-thirds of enrollments
in general, academic schools (Sekolah Menengah Atas, or SMA), with the balance
being in commercial secondary schools (Sekolah Menengah Ekonomi Atas, or
SMEA), technical secondary schools (Sekolah Teknik Menengah, or STM), primary
teacher training schools (Sekolah Pendidikan Guru, or SPG), primary sports
teacher training schools (Sekolah Guru Olahraga, or SGO), and home economics
secondary schools (Sekolah Menengah Kesejahteraan Keluarga, or SHKK). The
Government has recently announced that primary teacher training under the
proposed reform will be conducted at the post-secondary level and that only
about 100 SPGs will be retained, since the primary school network is no longer
expanding rapidly.
1.4       The growth of the education sector has strained the management capa-
bilities of the MOEC, which generally suffers from a lack of adequately
trained staff at the senior levels. The MOEC is divided into seven major
branches (Annex 1). The Secretariat General deals with administration,



- 2 -
planning, budget and financial and personnel matters. The Directorate General
of Primary and Secondary Education (Dikdasmen) provides teacher in-service
training and establishes and maintains standards. The Office of Educational
and Cultural Research and Development (Balitbang) is responsible for analysis
of statistical data on system performance, long-term planning and research,
curriculum development and evaluation. The Inspector General audits the
accounts and financial performance of the rest of the MOEC. In addition there
are Directorates General of Higher Education (DGHE), Culture and Non-Formal
Education, Youth and Sports. The MOEC has management and planning responsibi-
lities for about 1.6 million out of Indonesia's 3.4 million civil servants and
has one of the largest development and routine budgets of any Ministry.l/ It
also has the most dispersed regional administrative infrastructure of any
Ministry and is represented through its district-level offices, or kandeps, by
295 districts (rural kabupatens and urban kotamadyas) and through its pro-
vincial-level offices (kanwils) in all 24 provinces and in the three
provincial-level municipalities.
B. School System Performance
1.5       Indonesia has made remarkable progress in expanding education since
independence. Enrollments in primary schoolin3 (grades 1 through 6) grew from
2.5 million in 1945 to over 28 million in 1988/89--an average growth of 5.42
per year. Virtually all seven year olds now enter primary school. Secondary
schooling has grown even more rapidly, although from a smaller base. Enroll-
ments in junior secondary schooling (grades 7 through 9) were just 90,000 in
1945, but have grown to 6.7 million in 1988/89--an average growth of 10.02 per
year. Enrollments in senior secondary schooling (grades 10 through 12), mean-
while, grew from 18,000 to 4.1 million--an average growth of 12.62 per year.
Secondary education now enrolls about 532 of the eligible population at the
junior secondary level, and about 372 at the senior secondary level.2/ In
relative terms, coverage of primary and secondary education is about 20 to 302
above the predicted level, based upon the observed relationship between
enrollment ratios and per-capita income in Asian countries.3/
1.6       The Government has recently announced the goal of universal basic
education (through grade 9), which implies a significant expansion of capacity
at the junior secondary level. The Government appropriately plans to rely on
the private sector to accommodate most of the projected enrollment increase at
the secondary level, so it may focus its own efforts on the urgently needed
improvements in the quality of secondary education.
1.7       The Government's preoccupation with the education sector in the
years following independence was, appropriately, to transform an inherited
elitist and highly limited education system into an instrument of the
1/   Including the grants to regional governments for prir,ary schooling.
2/   Enrollment estimates are drawn from Repelita V, Indonesia's Fifth Five-
Year Development Plan (1988/89-1994/95).
3/   Educational Development in Asia:  A Comparative Study Focussing on Cost
and Financing Issues, IBRD regional report (September 1989).



- 3 -
country's integration and development. This required a sustained effort to
expand the national schooling network--an effort which, as described above,
has largely succeeded. However, as the school system was expanding, the
Government progressively became aware of and concerned about the qualitative
deficiencies of the education being provided. In part, these reflected an
actual decline in student performance in some areas resulting from the limita-
tions of accelerated programs of teacher training and other aspects of the
rapid system expansion (para. 1.11). But, more fundamentally, they reflected
the limitations of an outmoded, passive pedagogy which relied heavily on rote
learning and group response. The Government has attempted, over the years, to
introduce a more effective and active approach to teaching in primary and
secondary education.  Initially, its efforts focussed on upgrading critical
inputs to effective teaching. The Bank assisted in these efforts through its
support to two teacher training projects and two textbook development
projects. Following these initiatives, the Government launched an in-service
teacher training program which was designed to introduce a new, active-
learning pedagogy for secondary education through supervised classroom
instruction supported with appropriate instructional materials, notably for
science and mathematics instruction. The first Secondary Education and Man-
agement Training Project in 1984 (Loan 2472-IND), underpinned the regional
launching of this program. The results to date have been very positive and
the Government aims to generalize the gains of the program realized under the
ongoing project to classroom instruction in all subjects.
1.8       Part of the Government's objective in generalizing an active
learning pedagogy is to make schooling more responsive to the needs of the
labor market and of higher education. Historically, the civil service has
recruited most secondary graduates,41 and an important function of secondary
schooling was to screen applicants for government employment. In the future,
however, government recruitment is likely to absorb only a small fraction of
the graduates. Most will need to find jobs or self-employment in the private
sector. These prospective changes in the labor market will call for secondary
graduates who are better equipped with problem-solving skills and are more
resourceful than past graduates--attributes which the new, active pedagogy is
designed to impart.
C. Quality Issues
1.9       Education quality is concerned with the teaching/learning process.
It critically affects learning achievement and is manifested not only in edu-
cational outcomes but ultimately in the extent to which each individual is
able to take advantage of opportunities to be productive within a society.
The determinants of quality are complex and inter-related, as illustrated in
Table 1 which presents a model for educational quality applied to Indonesia.
In particular, the inter-relationship of the financial, material and human
inputs shown in Boxes 5-10 is critical. Thus, Table 1 indicates that the
inputs, processes and measurements are all factors that need to be dealt with
simultaneously or at least taken into consideration if quality improvements
are to occur.
4/   Currently, 582 of all secondary graduates in the labor force are employed
by the Government.



-4-
Table 1
A Model for Educatinsi Guefty
rc  - - - - -.- - -r-c-s.
.imen  k   s .u44.
1.10   In~~~AS attemptn  toiproe   sgiiatytetaciglann   rcs
mvi  .  IZ . (e
ys i   past proects tan lealie                   l ie 
quality becauseinsufficientm l cad bn eh   b       e  te i
ment budgetle  toxitterruptio  ofsafan   te   inpt  neddtiuti
substantial improvements, but also highlighted m~~~Anyise  wheaichreuie
5,  t"Quality Issues in General Edu x_ton~ by H.C.A. Setank consul-
r   tant.                                  b)Gru
soio      3                                 (shf
l  ~~~~~~~~~~ C~~~~larnubXb   ExIum    erc
bakln                    rcs"       aW&       t.8
CurraR  et  _           _znt
1.10      In attempting to improve significantly the teaching/learning process
in secondary education, the Indonesian Government has during the last five
years reviewed past projecte and realized that these had limited impact on
quality because insufficient links had been established between the inter-
related determinants. Also, discontinuities in financing under the develop-
ment budget led to interruption of staff and other inputs needed to sustain
quality improvements. The Government's concern over these issues led to the
updating of its secondary education strategy, the undertaking of a quality
oriented study, 5/ visits to schools and the organization of seminars to dis-
cuss quality issues. During the review, the HOEC realized that the ongoing
project, whose efforts were directed towards quality improvements, had led to
substantial improvements, but also highlighted many issues which required
attention. These issues are discussed in detail in the following paragraphs.
5/   "Quality Issues in General Education" by H.C.A. Somerset, Bank consul-
tant.



Teacher Upgrading Issues
1.11      To meet the past rapid expansion of secondary schools, the
Government expanded its pre-service teacher training programs and organized
crash teacher in-service training programs to respond quickly to the need for
large numbers of teachers. In spite of these efforts, the majority of
secondary teachers are still not trained or qualified to a desired level. The
pre-service teacher training programs are still under reorganization (para.
1.3); thus, integration of pre- and in-service teacher training activities has
not been possible. Also, due to the extensive need to upgrade teachers it was
justifiable to run both types of programs simultaneously. Although important
improvements have occurred in the pre-service programs there is still a need
for the MOEC to continue supporting for a number of years both teacher train-
ing modes. This poor level of teacher qualifications has negatively affected
teacher performance and student achievement. To deal with this situation, in
1980 Dikmenum piloted a program known as Pemantapan Kerja Guru (PKG) to
upgrade SMP and SHA teachers in science and mathematics.  A second stage of
the program, Sanggar Pemantapan Kerja Guru (SPKG), added English and the use
of key teachers (guru intis) to lead outreach training at the district level
in teacher centers (sanggars).  This program was initiated with Bank assis-
tance in 1984 under the ongoing project.  As the program has developed beyond
its initial pilot stages into a major national program, however, a number of
new issues have emerged which were not anticipated when the program was first
conceived. The teacher in-service issues which need to be addressed can be
grouped under three headings2 program, materials production and managerial
and organizational issues.
1.12      Program Issues in Teacher Upgrading
(a) The PKG Training Program. Delivery of full PKG training cycles is,
to date, well short of the original target of two cycles per secon-
dary teacher, even in the two subject areas (science and mathema-
tics) where the program has been in operation the longest. These
variations are a consequence of all provinces having the same
absolute PKG training capacity, despite huge differences in teacher
numbers. The PKG capacity in each province needs to be made commen-
surate with the size of the teacher population to be trained and to
continue targeting established, as well as new, teachers for some
time to come.
(b) The Sanggar PKG Program has attempted to be, simultaneously, both an
abbreviated initial training for underqualified teachers and a main-
tenance program for teachers who have already completed one or two
full PKG cycles. The current structure of SPKG training is derived
from the cascade model; 6/ the alternating sequence of in-service
6/   "Cascade model' refers to a training method by which head trainers are
trained at the central level. These in turn train regional trainers who
then train teachers at the local and school levels. The duration of the
training is usually shorter as it cascades to the lower levels. It
allows the introduction of a new concept or approach to reach all levels.



- 6 -
weekly meetings and on-service 7/ school visits is a diluted version
of full PKG training. But it has become evident that the existing
sanggar model is ineffective. For teachers who have not undergone
full PKG training, more subject content teaching is needed than can
be provided during the weekly meetings, whereas for PKG graduates,
further on-service school visits are expensive and in most cases
unnecessary. The programs have also not established a clear
collaboration with the subject teachers' organizations (MGMP and
MGBS),8/ which also train teachers.
(c) Numbers of Instructors. In recent years, there has been a substan-
tial depletion of the instructor pool available for PKG training,
especially in the science subjects. There is now typically one
trained instructor per subject per province, instead of the national
average of two per subject needed. Steps to replenish stocks of
these key professionals are needed.
(d) Training of Key Teachers (Guru Inti). To date, there have been no
formal teacher educator training programs for guru inti. Because
they do not receive any special preparation for their work, guru
inti often have difficulty in gaining the respect of sanggar par-
ticipants, many of whom have similar, or even superior, formal aca-
demic qualifications. There is a need to develop special training
programs to enhance their competence as in-service teacher
educators.
(e)  Training for Educational Supervisors, other Educational Managers and
Head Teachers. In the past, only a minority of supervisors actively
involved in the administration of PKG have received training. It
will be important, in the future, to extend training to all super-
visors. Similarly, the present small-scale training program for
head teachers will need to be strengthened and extended.
(f) Improving Links with Pre-Service Programs. The recent teacher
graduates from the pre-service programs are unprepared for their
work as teachers in terms of both their grasp of subject content and
their experience in using appropriate pedagogical methods. The pre-
service graduates only receive theoretical pedagogical training in
the secondary teacher training colleges/faculties (IKIPs and FKIPs)
and need to attend the PKG/SPKG training programs. As the PKG/SPKG
programs were designed for underqualified teachers and not
graduates, the presence of graduates in PKG/SPKG programs has had
some disruptive effects upon the ongoing programs. There is thus a
7/   In-service training is a program of training given on a part-time basis
to practicing teachers at a specific center and for an identified period.
On-service training is a follow-up at the school level by the in-service
instructors to assist the teachers with the implementation of the con-
cepts taught.
8/   MGMP and MGBS are acronyms for Menengah Guru Pertama and Menengah Guru
Sekda, both teacher associations.



- 7 -
need to establish specific and shorter training programs
concentrating only on practical pedagogical training for recent
IKIP/FKIP graduates.
(g) Language Instructional Policies. Language instruction in Bahasa
Indonesia and English has not been updated to fit the new active
learning methodology. Clear MOEC policies for language instruction
need to be formulated.
1.13      Materials Production Issues in Teacher Upgrading
(a) PKG Curriculum Materials. During the last ten years. instructors
and other professional project staff have produced a wide range of
curriculum materials for use in training programs and school class-
rooms. These include laboratory worksheets for the science
subjects, supplementary curriculum materials for teaching topics not
covered adequately in the available textbooks, and test papers for
both formative and summative 91 purposes. The materials are now
widely used by ex-PKG participants, but because official sanction to
use these materials was only achieved in May 1989, they have not
been made available to all teachers. The materials need revising
and editing so that they are suitable for formal publication.
(b) Curriculum Guidelines. Many schools have been unable to implement
the MOEC's latest 1984 curriculum effectively because of a scarcity
of curriculum guidelines. Printing sufficient copies so that they
could be made available to all schools would remove a considerable
constraint on quality improvement.
1.14      Managerial and Organizational Issues in Teacher Upgrading
(a)  Institutionalizing PKG.  When PKG was first set up it was seen as a
"project", a set of activities to strengthen the skills of the
teaching force which would come to an end when that job was done.
There is now a need for a permanent capacity for in-service upgrad-
ing of secondary teachers within Dikmenum so the program can con-
tinue after the project. A key requirement for creating this capa-
city is the formal recognition of PKG functions within the
established career structure for teachers and education administra-
tive staff. Similarly, linkages need to be developed with pre-ser-
vice teacher education, and curriculum and assessment activities in
other parts of the MOEC.
(b) Management Structure. To date, PKG has lacked a clearly defined
management structure with a set of job descriptions for each, member
of the project team. Thus, during the period covered by the ongoing
project, the staffing, particularly of professional subject
officers, has been inadequate. This has lead to a loss of the ori-
9/   "Formative" refers to tests on a specific topic, given at various inter-
vals during a program. "Summative' refers to a final test which sums up
or reviews the entire topic or subject.



ginal momentum and sense of purpose, and has resulted in repetitive
and routine training programs.
(c) Effective Operation of PKG was also affected by rapid staff turnover
such that by early 1989, no single senior member of the 1984 team
still worked with the project. Because PKG is a complex and innova-
tive project the sudden departure of even two or three key team
members can lead to a critical loss of project efficiency. Rapid
turnover of PKG instructors and other staff is v~-ry much related to
the lack of career pathways and incentives and thus threatens the
sustainability of the entire program.
(d) Data Collection. The structure for data collection on PKG program
performance 10/ was only recently started and needs to be
strengthened and implemented in all the provinces.
(e)  Decentralization.  To date, most PKG management, financing, and
delivery decisions have been taken by the central team in Jakarta,
in consultation with the provincial teams. This may have been
necessary in the early days of the project but it has led to a
number of inefficiencies. For example, the t,aining packa-ges which
work well in the large, densely-populated provinces have not been
modified for effective delivery in sparsely-populated provinces.
Also, the lack of clarification among the roles of the national PKG
coordinator, the provincial authorities and the Project Director has
led to much confusion in the management of the PKG/SPKG programs.
Environmental Studies Issues
1.15      Insufficient attention has been given to environmental matters in
Indonesia and the Government has realized that no national vehicle to inform
its citizens on these matters exists. Environmental studies have been iden-
tified as a priority within Repelita V. Although ample country findings exist
to support such an effort, these findings need to be drawn together and
adapted to fit the existing secondary curricula in order to facilitate
national dissemination of environmental concepts.
School Science Equipment Issues
1.16      The provision of science equipment needs to be institutionalized and
synchronized in relation to the needs of the curriculum and the situation in
individual schools. The present systematic supply of science materials to
secondary schools started in 1974 using a series of school "drops". A "drop"
consists of delivery to each school of a kit containing a standard set of
equipment. By 1984, the supply consisted mainly of imported or badly made
local copies of science equipment with much of it not meeting curriculum
needs. The costs of these "drops" were funded by MOEC development budget
(Dip) funds until 1984 when the ongoing project supported an analysis of the-
10/ Number of courses run, trainees attending the courses, trainees' academic
backgrounds and progress (number of PKG sessions attended) and evaluation
of the training programs.



science curriculum with an identification of the actual equipment required to
perform all necessary experiments and subsequently, the preparation of related
specifications and purchase of the equipment. To improve the quality of items
manufactured locally, the equipment identified was tested and the production
of prototypes, in cooperation with national manufacturers, was started.ll/
Finally, the revised specifications were computerized and efforts were started
to improve the timeliness of equipment distribution to secondary schools.
This venture has already greatly enhanced the quality of secondary science
education in Indonesia and should be continued.
1.17      Since the availability of science equipment now varies greatly from
school to school,12/ it would make neither financial nor pedagogical sense to
continue supplying existing schools with the same standardized kits. For new
schools, however, the updated standard kit approach could still be used to
cover the first supply of equipment. For existing schools, Pemassokan
Berdasarkan Permintaan Sekolah (PPS) or Supply by School Response was
developed and tested under the ongoing project. PPS is currently in its third
round of pilot trials.131 For PPS1, school requisitions were entered and
analyzed manually, but, for PPS2 and PPS3, a computer-based system was intro-
duced.
1.18      Staff training in management of the PPS was successfully undertaken
for central and provincial staff and now needs to be expanded to the district
level. Training of technicians for the maintenance of equipment was also
piloted during the ongoing project and needs to be expanded to include super-
visors, guru intis, teachers and laboratory assistants. To facilitate
delivery of the equipment under the ongoing project, a national warehouse was
built and equipped and a computerized Material Management System (MMS) for the
delivery of equipment was tested.
1.19      The following quality issues in the provision of school science
equipment have been identified on the basis of experience under the ongoing
project as needing attentiont (a) the analysis of the 1984 SMA curriculum
needs to be completed to ensure consistency of future equipment purchases; (b)
the quality control team at the MOEC, responsible for the preparation of
specifications and testing of all equipment items prior to and following
awards, needs strengthening, particularly at the provincial level; (c) to
improve the quality of the equipment produced nationally, the development of
prototypes and standardization of equipment continue to need attention; (d)
l/ About 50 prototypes have to date been developed jointly with private
industry; another 100 are in the process of development.
12/ Many schools have been supported generously by parents' association fee
(BP3) contributions, while others who have been dependent upon the "drop"
only, have not received any equipment for about five years.
13/ The first pilot (PPS1) provided equipment to 150 schools in five pro-
vinces, the second (PPS2) extended the supply to 800 SMPs and 400 SMAs in
21 provinces and the third phase (PPS3), currently in progress, will
provide equipment to 3,200 secondary schools in 26 of the 27 provinces of
the country.



- 10 -
training in maintenance of the equipment also needs attention, particularly at
the supervisors', teachers' and laboratory assistants' levels and should be
decentralized; and (e) the MOEC needs to develop a science instruction policy
which reflects active learning concepts.
1.20      The following managerial issues in the provision of school science
equipment also need to be addressed:
(a) Institutionalization. The PPS, successfully piloted in about 3,200
schools, needs to be institutionalized in all secondary schools. To
achieve that goal, provincial and district staff (sanggar and kabu-
paten) need to be trained in the processing, recording and main-
tenance of the supply system. Also, key PPS positions at the
national and provincial levels need to be institutionalized.
(b) Timing of Replenishment. At present, replenishment of secondary
school science equipment occurs about every five years which is
educationally unacceptable. This period should be reduced to about
three years. The lack of a buffer stock delays delivery of science
equipment to schools. There is a need to review the delivery
system, allowing, where possible, direct factory delivery to cen-
trally located and accessible schools and decentralized distribution
to the provinces. There is also a need to prepare guidelines for
the procurement and distribution of this equipment.
(c) Teacher Role. Various ways should be assessed to continue full
involvement by teachers as the supply and quality of science equiip-
ment continue to improve.
(d) Length of Contracts. Few national firms are able to specialize in
the manufacturing of school science equipment because there is no
guaranteed long-term market. The duration of contracts for the
supply of science equipment needs to be reviewed to improve the
efficiency of supply and procurement and to permit improvements in
the quality of the equipment.
(e) Maintenance of existing equipment is almost nonexistent, with the
result that large sums of money are often spent replacing broken
items when small inexpensive repairs could be made.14/ Also, labo-
ratory assistants' training is inadequate and teachers are not
taught basic maintenance, storage or use skills either in the pre-or
in-service teacher training programs.
141 An analysis done during the ongoing project revealed that 77Z of the
broken equipment in the schools surveyed could be repaired. A second
analysis of the resupply of about 30 items under PPS3 for 556 SMA and
1,260 SMP schools revealed that if repair of repairable items were under-
taken the MOEC would save about US$500,000. If these savings were
applied to all 1988 secondary schools (19,622 SMPs and 10,054 SMAs), over
US$7.0 million could be saved annually and could readily justify the
establishment of a maintenance program.



- 11 -
(f) As the equipment developed under the prototype scheme of the ongoing
project is much costlier than the present (unsatisfactory) equip-
ment, there is a need to test and assess the quality and costs of
the improved, locally produced equipment in relation to externally
produced high-quality equipment.15/
(g) Permanent annual funding for science equipment has not existed for
about five years. The pre-oil crisis annual allocations which were
stopped at the inception of the ongoing project, need to be re-
established to permit an uninterrupted supply of science equipment.
Quality improvements can only occur if provision of necessary inputs
is made permanent.
Examinations Issues
1.21      During the 19709, the Government abolished the national school
leaving examination, without replacing it with a suitable national tool to
evaluate students. In 1980, the Examination Research and Development Center
(EDC) or Pusat Pengujian, was established to overcome the MOEC's inability to
monitor the cognitive performance of the students. The MOEC also reintroduced
three sets of national summative examinations:16/ primary (SD), SHP and SMA
known originally as Ebtanas and recently renamed Ujian Akhir (final examina-
tions). To develop these activities, it obtained assistance from the ongoing
project for the establishment of a central examination center, development of
an examination question item bank and training of examination staff. To over-
come the serious lack of qualified staff in the examinations area, the MOEC
undertook an overseas and in-country training program for secondary teachers,
Dikmenum and kanwil staffs.
1.22      The main issues requiring further attention are:
(a) Quality of Examinations. There is much scope for further improve-
ment in the quality of examination questions particularly in the
regions, which are now responsible for the preparation of the SD and
SMP exams and participate in the preparation of the national SMA
examination. Analysis of recent examinations shows that the desired
reliability coefficients are often not met because of poorly formu-
lated questions. There is a need to improve the skills of the pro-
vincial examination setting teams and to develop and implement pro-
fessional indicators of quality;
(b) Examinations are too limited in scope and prepared in an ad hoc
manner. The examinations to date have only been of the multiple-
choice &nd force-choice question types. To test student skills more
ievequately, examinations should also include some open-ended and
essay questions. Also, since EDC has assumed more responsibility
15/ During ICB II under the ongoing project, the cost of prototypes was about
four times the price of poor quality equipment but no comparison has been
made to date with respect to similar quality international equipment.
16/ See footnote No. 9.



- 12 -
for examination development, its staff, lacking teaching experience,
has concentrated on the preparation of mechanical 'calibrated" ques-
tions not fully understood by most teachers and administrators.
Moreover, the questions are not always subject-based. In addition,
due to the hurried way the examinations were reintroduced, the pro-
cess has remained ad hoc (such as examinations committees with vary-
ing memberships each year) and cannot be used as an indicator of
national or regional performance trends;17/
(c) Suitability of Training. To date, the masters-level training pro-
gram in examinations development has had difficulties identifying
candidates for international degree training because of the poor
mastery of English by the kanwil-based staff. The MOEC has trained
mainly university graduates with no teaching experience, thus
creating a credibility gap with the teachers and provincial
administrators who are called upon to implement the examinations.
The problem is more acute now that the responsibilities for examina-
tion development and implementation have been largely transferred to
the provinces. In addition, although improving, the content of in-
country training in examinations has been too theoretical and not
always suitable for operational staff. There is a need to establish
in-country courses in examinations within university education
faculties and to recruit, on the basis of needs, international
examinations experts to assist with the review and application of
the in-country training programs;
(d) Management. The ongoing project was negatively affected by a lack
of effective linkages between the work of EDC in research and
development and the work of Dikmenum and the provincial offices
responsible for the implementation of examinations. EDC's role was
confined almost entirely to research. Coordination is improving,
but a clearer definition of roles needs to be established and
reviewed periodically to facilitate better coordination and institu-
tionalization of examinations. Also, to strengthen and broaden the
limited experience of the EDC staff, there is a need to establish
formal links with international examination bodies;
(e) Coordination. Another management weakness of EDC has been its lack
of coordination with the primary and secondary programs concerned
with improvements in educational quality, particularly PKG. If
effective improvement in the quality of examinations is to occur,
there is a need to establish proper linkages between these programs,
involving key innovative and experienced teachers.
17/ Ibid, Somerset.



- 13 -
Management Issues
MOEC Data Management
1.23      Since 1987, the MOEC has been developing the concept of "Integrated
Management" with the aim of increasing efficiency by establishment of a
Ministry-wide management information system (MIS), better coordination of data
collection for planning and decision making purposes and the introduction of
evaluation activities. In 1985, the MOEC, through Balitbang's Data Center
(Pusat Informatika), and with USAID assistance, piloted in five provinces an
Educational Policy Planning project to support planning and decision making
functions. This activity needs to be better integrated with the activities of
the various operational units of the MOEC, several of which have developed
their own management information systems. The main issues with respect to the
MIS are: (a) MIS development has been uncoordinated, with many activities
being incompatible, making the processing of planning and management data
difficult. Pusat Informatika has not had the resources to carry out the task;
(b) MIS hardware and software are not standardized throughout the MOEC;
(c) the assumption that MOEC could establish ard run a national, centrally
controlled data system has proven to be wrong.  rJta collection is uncoordi-
nated and overlapping. As many as five separate series of data are collected
by different entities of the MOEC on the same variables and need to be con-
solidated into a single mechanism for generating and recording data on the
education system; (d) insufficient time is devoted to analysis and feedback.
There is a need to streamline data collection and feedback to users; (e)
information on the participation of women in the various secondary education
programs needs to be improved, particularly in the rural areas where drop-out
rates are still high; and (f) studies in planning and management, completed in
October 1988, recommend the redefinition of data collection tasks and, once
redefined, to undertake relative staff training.
1.24      Dikmenum is currently developing a network of interlocking sets of
computer-based systems with manual back-ups for the management and operation
of the subsector. These activities are collectively referred to as "Data
Processing Dikuoinum Operational Systems (DPDOS)." DPDOS activities were
piloted successfully with UNDP technical assistance and loan funds, during the
ongoing project. The programs piloted by DPDOS were: School Information
System (SOIS), PKG/SPKG Information System (PKGIS), Budget Analysis System
(LAKEPRO), Supply of Science Equipment by School Response (PPS), Material
Management System (MMS) at the warehouse and for delivery of science equipment
ar.d School Administration System (SAS). These programs are described in more
detail in Annex 3. It is now appropriate to implement these programs
nationally. Doing so effectively, however, will require a number of actions
and inputs, including: (a) to facilitate usage of the data collected,
integration of the coding and development of reference files for Dikmenum
activities; (b) staff training for rational implementation of the DPDOS in all
the provinces and piloting it at the district level; (c) institutionalization
of the DPDOS programs, based on the principle that each subsector should have
a data system to respond to its specific administrative needs, under a central
overview to guarantee compatibility for effective use; and (d) collation of
existing documentation to prepare clear DPDOS administrative handbooks.



- 14
MOEC Management
1.25      The MOEC is the largest ministry in the Indonesian Government in
terms of staff, budget and regional administrative infrastructure. It employs
over 1.7 million teachers and staff, representing 482 of civil service employ-
ment. It receives 202 of the national recurrent budget,18/ and 16Z of the
development budget net of defense. It has the most extensive infrastructure
t any ministry at the provincial (kanwil), district (kabupaten/kotamadya),
and subdistrict (kecamatan) levels. Management of education programs in the
context of such a large ministry is intrinsically complex. Management
suffers, moreover, from the fragmentation of activities among the individual
line and staff units of the Ministry. There is a tendency for individual
units to act in isolation, which leads to inefficiencies such as duplication
of data collection (para. 1.23). This tendency is reinforced by hierarchical
administrative procedures which discourage horizontal communication among
technical staff of different units. Fragmentation of MOEC activities also
makes it difficult to ensure coherence and consistency among individual
Ministry programs.
1.26      There is also a need for clarif4cation of roles of the Secretariat
General bureaus in relation to the other units of the MOEC--a need which is
being addressed by the study of integrated education management being. carried
out under the ongoing project. The Government has agreed to review the
findings of this study and to implement its recommendations. In addition,
while the MOEC is adequately staffed in terms of numbers, staff have little or
no training in management, planning, finance and evaluation. The overseas
management training programs (largely postgraduate) for senior staff,
undertaken under the ongoing project led to few management improvements, par-
ticularly at the regional level. There is a need to undertake more in-country
"hands on" training of middle managers to improve MOEC's efficiency.
1.27      In addition, the management of investment and quality improvement
projects urgently needs attention. Past project directors have been rotated,
in some cases annually, never leaving the incumbent in post long enough to
understand the real goals of the project. That continuous rotation of project
staff in key administrative positions has seriously hampered the MOEC's
implementation capacity and resulted in numerous delays and increased costs.
There is a need, particularly now that qualitative issues are being dealt
with, for the MOEC to assign key staff for longer terms and to do so on the
basis of qualifications and experience.
Secondary Education Finance
1.28      There are two principal sub-issues in secondary education finances
(a) the adequacy and continuity of funding for essential inputs to high-
quality secondary education; and (b) the appropriateness of cost recovery from
beneficiaries, secondary students and their families. Each of these is dis-
cussed in turn below.
181 Including salaries of primary-school teachers seconded to regional gov-
ernments via the Ministry of Home Affairs.



- 15 -
1.29      Adequacy of Funding.  Education at all levels suffers from inade-
quate funding of recurrent inputs to schooling which are vital to the educa-
tional process, such as textbooks, chalk, paper and basic science laboratory
equipment.19/ The problem is especially severe at the primary level, but it
is apparent at the secondary level as well. The main permanent sources of
public financing for these purchases are the central government routine budget
and the fees collected from students by the schools (SPP), deposited by the
schools with the central government and (eventually and partially) returned to
schools as the DPP grant from the administration. The unit entitlement
formula for allocating the annual routine budget to secondary schools provides
Rp 5,500 (US$3.11) per student in junior secondary schooling for teaching aids
and consumable materials; the corresponding allocation at the senior secondary
level is Rp 9,000 (US$5.08). The DPP grant provides an additional US$0.23 per
student in junior secondarv schooling for instructional materials. and US$2.30
per student in senior secondary schooling. The resulting totals--less than
US$3.50 per year for each junior secondary student and less than US$7.50 per
senior secondary student--are clearly inadequate to provide the necessary
instructional inputs to support effective secondary education. In this situa-
tion of inadequate recurrent budgets for secondary schools, supplemental
financing by parents in the form of BP3 contributions has emerged as an impor-
tant additional source of school financing in more affluent communities. Some
public secondary schools receive three or four times as much from these
parental contributions as they do from official sources. Such schools are
usually well equipped with instructional materials, and are consequently able
to offer a much higher quality of education than schools which rely only on
public funding. Secondary school finance and secondary education quality thus
vary widely according to communities' capacities to supplement official funds
for instructional inputs. The formula for allocating DPP funds to schools in
principle allows for targeting transfers to schools in the poorest areas, but
the effect on improved equity of education is almost non-existent because the
allocation formulae do not, in fact, favor poorer provinces. More fundamen-
tally, the amount of current funding which might be targeted to poor schools
is simply too small to make much of a difference to the many schools in need.
1.30      Although the routine budget is the principal source of financing for
instructional inputs in secondary schools, the development budget has proven
to be a more flexible instrument for providing larger amounts of funding for
identified needs. The past projects which supported textbook deliveries to
schools are an example. A limitation of financing provided in this project
format has been its impermanence; typically, the activity supported ends when
the project-specific budget allocation ends. To address this concern, the
Government needs to establish ongoing financing of essential inputs such as
science equipment (para. 1.20(g)].
1.31      Cost Recovery.  There is currently a high degree of cost recovery in
secondary education: in 1987/88, 442 of junior and 622 of senior secondary
enrollments were provided in largely self-financed private schools. In addi-
tion, there is a high degree of cost recovery in public secondary schools--
19/  The sources and uses of secondar:-    -                    decribed in
detail in the recent sector stu.)                             XLCd.i4i;
Study (World Bank Report No. 7841-INDn ;        



- 16 -
both through enrollment fees, which account for at least 102 of Government
recurrent costs, and, more significantly, through parents' contributions. The
amounts and uses of parents' BP3 contributions to schools are determined by
the parents' associations. Although voluntary, BP3 contributions are treated
by parents as mandatory. Many urban public secondary schools derive as much
as 902 of their total recurrent expenditures th ough this source. The propor-
tion of private financing in poorer--often rural--schools is lower, but
increased parental contributions to such schools are undesirable on equity
grounds. The major issues related to secondary school cost recovery aret (a)
the need to find better instruments for targeting public subsidies to schools
in the poorest areas; and (b) the need to provide better control of the qual-
ity of education in private schools--many of which are of poor quality and
enroll significant numbers of disadvantaged students.
1.32      Other Issues ares  (a) Private Education.  The role of private
secondary schools needs to be more clearly defined and attention given to
their quality. Criteria also need to be developed for providing MOEC support
to private schooling;20/ (b) Adequacy of Resources. Recent analyses of
secondary programs in Indonesia have revealed a lack of basic resources neces-
sary for qualitative and equitable secondary education. They indicate that
quality and equity, particularly in rural areas, is more a question of these
areas being less endowed with qualified teachers, educational materials and
less experienced managers rather than having lower enrollments. Secondary
education has undergone many changes in content and scale during the last
decade, but without a cogent analysis of essential resources/inputs to sustain
quality education. There is a need to review fully the operating needs of
secondary schools in terms of staffing, educational materials and facility
inputs in order to set standards for the basic inputs required for delivery of
quality education.
Government Strategy
1.33      The Government is pursuing the following goals:  (a) upgrading of
the quality of existing education programs through upgrading of teachers,
improving the supply of educational materials and increasing community par-
ticipation in schools; (b) extending the coverage of basic education to nine
years (six years primary and three years junior secondary),21/ improving edu-
cational opportunities in rural areas while allowing more regional adjustments
of the curriculum and increasing the partnership with industry; (c) improving
education planning, management and information systems, strengthening the
evaluation and supervision of MOEC activities and improving the maintenance of
schools; and (d) improving management training at all levels. On May 22,
1989, the MOEC issued a major policy statement dealing with secondary educa-
tion quality improvements through teacher upgrading, development of national
20/ With the exception of a limited number of excellent private secondary
schools, the majority, based on examination results, are of low quality.
Also, most are operated in poor facilities or in government buildings as
afternoon schools.
21/ Secondary school expansion planned during Repelita V will be highly
dependent upon the private sector.



- 17 -
examinations and development of management information systems. This policy
statement is summarized in Annex 4 and the complete text of both the policy
statement and Action Program are availabe in the 'Working Papers." The latter
provide an important policy basis for the proposed project.
Experience with Previous Projects
1.34      To date, Bank involvement in the subsector has included two tech-
nical education projects. two teacher training projects, two textbook projects
and the ongoing Secondary Education and Management Training Project. Seven
management studies undertaken under the ongoing project form the basis of man-
agement activities to be conducted under the proposed project. However, the
original implementation and disbursement schedules of the ongoing project were
overoptimistic, projecting completion in three years. Implementation was
affected by shortages of counterpart and routine funds, by problems of
institutional coordination among the implementation agencies and by frequent
changes in project management. Intensified Bank supervision and a recent
joint Bank/Government review of the problems, have led to improved project
implementation. The project Closing Date has been extended to September 30,
1990, with project activities expected to be completed by mid-1990.
1.35      From the experience gained during supervision missions for the seven
projects completed to date, and from a general review of implementation prob-
lems in the education sector undertaken in 1985, the following lessons have
been learned: (a) avoid creating a variety of new and separate Project
Implementation Units (PIUs), instead strengthen existing key PIUs within the
implementation institutions [Project Completion Report (PCR) First Teacher
Training Loan 1486-INDI; (b) ensure the early appointment of key PIU staff,
able to work full-time over a prolonged period on project implementation (PCR
First Education Credit 219-IND); (c) give special attention to the need for
adequate administrative procedures and communication/coordination among
implementation agencies and levels of government (ongoing Loan 2472-IND);
(d) institutionalize new program initiatives such as the Textbook and
Examination Centers to facilitate their sustainability (Draft PCR Second Text-
book Loan 2102-IND); (e) respond better to training, material and management
needs by having more quality inputs controlled regionally rather than cen-
trally (ongoing Loan 2472-IND); (f) include the language training necessary
for effective utilization of project-financed fellowships overseas (PCR Fifth
Education Loan 1433-IND); (g) give more attention to the number and quality of
in-country training programs (PCR Seventh Education Credit 869-IND); and
(h) carry out joint Bank/Government annual budgetary reviews to ensure ade-
quate budgetary allocations for project-financed activities (PCR First Non-
Formal Loan 486-IND).
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.36      Bank strategy is to emphasize the improvement of education quality
at all levels of the education system. The ongoing project built upon and
incorporated a number of the recommendations of the Bank's 1984 analysis of



- 18 -
issues in secondary education.22/ That project put in place and tested
PKG/SPKG programs in teacher upgrading, MIS and management training. However,
due to the size of Indonesia, the project was only able to cover the initial
phase of the subsector action program and the Government has indicated its
commitment to continue the investment. Now that successful pilots have been
undertaken, it is time to generalize them. These future actions would be
consistent with the Action Program agreed as part of the ongoing project which
lists the actions needed to improve the quality of secondary education. The
Bank would continue supporting improvements in educational quality and manage-
ment in the subsector. An important innovation of the proposed project is
that it would be the first Bank-assisted initiative in the sector to focus on
the schoel level, where improved inputs are most likely to affect teaching
quality and learning. In parallel, the Bank is supporting a set of
institutional and policy changes in the Higher Education Project and a Basic
Education Sector Study, recently completed (footnote 19), is expected to lead
to a loan in support of basic education.
2. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Description
2.1       The proposed project represents a continuation of the Government's
program, assisted by the Bank under the ongoing project, to improve the qual-
ity and sustainability of secondary education and improve management capacity
within the secondary education subsector. The proposed activities are grouped
under two key objectives: improvement of secondary education quality and
strengthening the management of secondary education.
2.2       Quality improvement would be addressed through:
(a) Teacher upgrading by (i) providing in-service/on-service teacher
training in science, mathematics, English and Bahasa Indonesia and
developing such training in social sciences subjects (IPS) in 27
provinces; training of instructors and key teachers (guru intis);
and assisting the MOEC to institutionalize the PKG/SPKG programs
with support to teacher organizations as local professional groups;
and (ii) supplying secondary schools with copies of curriculum
guides and PKG student and teacher materials;
(b) developing new curriculum units to teach environmental issues at the
secondary school level;
(c) procuring new stocks of secondary school science equipment while:
(i) supplying and testing science equipment prototypes produced in
cooperation with local industries; (ii) continuing the development
22/ 'Secondary Education in Indonesia: Issues and Programs for Action", World
Bank Report No. 4954-IND, July 24, 1984, paras. 3.55-3.56, table 3.17.
Findings concur with recent World Bank studies elsewhere which find high
rates of return to general secondary education.



- 19 -
of a national computerized system for the supply of science equip-
ment in response to individual secondary school needs; (iii) train-
ing teacher trainers and teachers in the use and maintenance of
science equipment; and (iv) institutionalizing annual funding for
the supply of science equipment; and
(d) assisting the MOEC to develop an institutionalized examination sys-
tem network in the 27 provinces to improve the teaching and learning
processes and for educationai quality control.
2.3      tManagement improvement activities includes
(a) assisting the MOEC to undertake a study to establish an MIS for the
entire Ministry with specific sub-studies in personnel management,
logistics and the financial operation of schools;
(b) assisting Dikmenum in cooperation with Balitbang's Pusat Infor-
matika, to integrate national coding and collection of education
data in order to implement the DPDOS nationally, thus improving the
data collection required for effective management;
(c) implementation of integrated management training programst
(i) assessing management training needs throughout the MOEC;
(ii) implementing a Ministry-wide management training program
focusing on practical "hands-on" training at the central, provincial
and district levels; (iii) assessing training needs and providing
training in data processing throughout the MOEC; and (iv) conducting
workshops and seminars in evaluation and monitoring; and
(d) financing of studies to: (1) identify the basic resource require-
ments to dispense quality secondary education; (2) develop measures
to improve MOEC support to private education; (3) develop policy
options for targeting measures to improve education quality in
deprived areas.
A. Quality Improvement Activities
Teacher Upgrading (estimated cost US$82.5 million excluding contingencies)
2.4       The proposed project would continue and extend the PKG teacher
training activities which were successfully started under the ongoing project.
It is anticipated that the sanggar-based PKG program would provide training
under the project for 69,000 science teachers (physics, biology and chem-
istry), 48,000 mathematics teachers, 48,000 English teachers, 18,000 Bahasa
Indonesia teachers and about 6,000 IPS teachers. (Annex 5 summarizes PKG
activities and estimated project costs).
2.5       The PKG Training Programs started during the ongoing project
(para. 1.11) would be decentralized from the provincial centers to the
sanggars at the district (kabupaten) level. Similarly, the responsibilities
for running PKG would gradually be transferred from the instructors to the
guru intis, removing the existing dualism of training modes. Inequalities
among provinces would be reduced and unit costs would be lower than PKG but



- 20 -
higher than the (unsatisfactory) SPKG program. Utilization rates of sanggar
buildings would rise, training activities would be more school-based, and the
knowledge of the most experienced instructors would be available at the
sanggar level. In addition, the sanggar-based program is seen as an inter-
mediate step between the original PKG and the final stage in which the profes-
sional development of teachers becomes a fully institutionalized activity,
carried out through the teacher organizations (MGMP and MGBS) operating at the
district and subdistrict levels. The science and English sanggar-based PKG
program would be phased out during Years 4 and 5 of the project and transition
to the MGMPIMGBS would begin no later than Year 3. The project would also
develop closer linkages with the pre-service education programs at the IKIPs
and FKIPs. Annex 6 gives an overview of the training flows in the new
sanggar-based PKG program and of the implementation schedules and decision
matrix for sanggar-based PKG teacher training activities. Ongoing and new
activities to be covered by this project are:
(a) Strengthening Sanggar-Based PKG Training. Two new subjects, Bahasa
Indonesia and IPS would be introduced. Training activities for
ongoing subjects--science, mathematics and English would move away
from the provincial centers into the sanggars at the district
(kabupaten) level. Sanggar-based training would be much
strengthened by block in-service courses as well as weekly meetings
and on-service school visits [para. 1.12(b)].
(b) Flexible Implementation Schedules. To overcome variances in cov-
erage between small and large provinces, implementation schedules
would be adjusted to the province's specific needs, with the number
of training teams based on teacher numbers rather than one training
team for each province.
(c) Rather than continue the present uncoordinated recruitment of
subject consultants (international and national) a "think tank team"
would be set up for each PKG subject area. Each team would review
annually past and planned activities to ensure that the PKG program
is kept flexible and responsive to emerging needs. The consultants
would be selected from the overseas link universities where the
instructor training programs are run. To enhance a two-way flow of
knowledge and experience between the national teams and the inter-
national consultants, long-term contracts with selected institutions
for a series of training and development activities would be entered
into. About 168 staff-months of internationally recruited consul-
tant services would be provided under this component (112 consultan-
cies averaging 1.5 months per assignment). These international con-
sultants would work with ten national consultants (10 consultants
with 1-2 in each of the seven subjects) (Annex 5). An understanding
was reached during negotiations on shortlists and terms of reference
for the first two years of consultancies [para. 5.1(d)J.
(d) Provincial Consultants. To improve linkages between pre-service
teacher education and the PKG program, it is proposed that each pro-
vincial PKG team should invite a faculty member from the relevant
subject department of the local IKIP or FKIP to join the training
team as provincial consultant, making appropriate inputs to the guru



- 21 -
inti training programs (para. 1.12(f)]. Also, starting about the
third year of the project, when some of the PKG activities would be
declining, a limited number of experienced instructors would become
available to join IKIP or FKIP faculties in their areas of special-
ization. About 100 staff-years of provincial consultants would be
provided by the project for the seven subjects.
(e) The role of the instructors would be to train guru intis and to
provide guidance to teachers, advisors and lesson demonstrators in
cooperation with school supervisors (pengawas) during their school
visits. The project would train the following new instructors: 70
for science and 40 each for mathematics and English. For Bahasa
Indonesia and IPS, about 100 instructors each would be trained to
allow the programs to be mounted at the 34 training locations (para.
1.12(c)]. In addition to the national training programs, short
international courses in specialized fields would be provided for
both the new and the experienced instructors. During the five-year
period, about 72 instructors would undertake diploma-level training
and about 60 would continue to the master's degree (Annex 5).
(f) The role of guru intis would be to develop the professional skills
of classroom teachers. The project would provide guru intis and
their assistants with specialized teacher educator training [para.
1.12(d)]. The in-service/on-service pattern used successfully with
PKG training would be followed, except that for the guru inti, on-
service training would take place in the sanggar center as well as
in the schools. The guru intis would pursue content upgrading
within national universities and IKIPs and, when qualified, could be
upgraded to the level of instructors. During the project, about
5,760 guru intis would be trained (Annex 5).
(g)  Administration and Principal Training.  To familiarize key Kanwil
decision makers and supervisors (Kepala Bidang Dikmenum and pro-
vincial PKG coordinators) with PKG teaching approaches, they would
participate in national seminars and international programs. Prin-
cipal training has been provided under the current PKG program to
only two principals in each province. These principals, in teams,
now run workshops for school principals in subjects such as time-
tabling, personnel administration, general administration, student
records, examinations, and curriculum design [para. 1.12(e)]. In
order to provide this combined pedagogical/managerial training to
all secondary school principals, it is proposed that these teams of
principal trainers be supplemented by about 54 additional trainers--
2 to 3 trainers for each large province and 1 to 2 for each small
province.
(h) Language Instructional Policies. The MOEC plans to undertake a
review of, and update its secondary education language instructional
policies (for Bahasa Indonesia and English) under the guidance of
Dikdasmen and with the participation of the language academy, pro-
fessional representatives from key universities and PKG
national/international teams. This exercise is scheduled to be
completed by January 1993 [para. 1.12(g)).



- 22 -
(1) Materials and Equipment. The 240 sanggars built and partially
equipped under the ongoing project would be supplied with educa-
tional materials and equipment to make them effective and attractive
centers for teacher activities (para. 1.13). Funds would be pro-
vided to supply adequate numbers of the 1984 curriculum guidelines
to all secondary schools. The project would also provide for the
publication of PKG bulletins in each subject (once each semester),
and the editing and publication of PKG teacher notes, laboratory
worksheets, formative and summative tests and other teaching mate-
rials to be supplied to all secondary schools (Annex 5);
(j)  Data Collection and Evaluation.  The PKGIS piloted under the ongoing
project would be implemented under the proposed project. Data are
to be collected at the sanggar/district levels, compiled at the
provincial level and finally fed into a national data base [para.
1.14(d)). Data on course approvals, types of courses, their dura-
tion, the number of candidates including their training profiles,
and costs of course operation will be kept. The project would
support the following evaluation activities: diagnostic tests after
each training unit; closer monitoring of student achievement; group
participation with results discussed at PKG weekly meetings; and
preparation by instructors and guru intis of documental case
Studies, identified yearly, together with outlines of student-cen-
tered activities.
(k) Proiect Management. To facilitate the implementation of the
measures discussed above, the MOEC would staff the professional
branch within Dikmenum, with separate officers responsible for the
administration of the project and its professional direction (para.
1.14 and Annex 7). This new organization would formalize the pro-
fessional branch. During negotiations, an understanding was reached
on the staffing plans for the PKG programs including the nominations
of the Head of Education/National PRG Coordinator and the
professional subject specialists [para. 5.1(a)]. During
negotiations,the Borrower agreed that it would appoint by JulZ 1,
1990, the Head of Education/National PKG Coordinator who would be
either one full-time person or at most two persons devoting at least
half their time to the position. The Head would be appointed for a
three year term. For effective operation of the PKG programs,
Dikmenum would, by April 1, 1992, fill all vacant positions for
national and provincial subject specialists (in science,
mathematics, Bahasa Indonesia, English and social sciences, with
suitable qualifications and experience as teachers) (see Agreements,
para. 5.2(a)).
(1)  As indicated in Section (a) above, the PKG program would be institu-
tionalized during the proposed project, with the implementation of
the newly approved MOEC career pathways with functional positions
for key quality improvement of staff from the school to the kanwil
office level (Annex 8). Roles and responsibilities of provincial-
and sanggar-level PKG staff for the proposed project have been
clearly defined, as summarized in Annex 9.



- 23 -
(m) Decentralization. The operation of the PKG training programs would
be decentralized to the provinces (para. 1.14(e)]. The provincial
authorities would be responsible for the preparation of annual
training plans which they would submit to the central office for
review about October each year. The annual project review would
also coincide with that period and with the national budgetary exer-
cise (para. 2.28).
Environmental Studies (estimated cost US$0.4 million excluding contingencies)
2.6       The Government appropriately sees secondary education as the most
efficient and effective vehicle for increasing public awareness of the
environmental issues arising from the country's development.  To this end, the
Government aims to develop an environmental studies teaching program
(instructional units) to be integrated into the existing science, social
studies and geography curriculum in secondary education. A series of seminars
for SMP and SMA teachers would be conducted during the project on the
integrated environmental program (para. 1.15). The seminars would develop
guidelines and materials for teaching and learning modules which would inte-
grate and interrelate environmental studies across the social sciences, geo-
graphy and science subjects. New curriculum materials would be produced for
environmental studies, and the modules introduced into subject areas within
the existing curricula. Although the seminar team would be centered in
Dikmenum, it would be expected to provide leadership to the working groups
while calling upon the expertise and experiences of the Ministry of Environ-
ment, LIPI, other ministries, and the United Nations Environmental Program.
The project would cover the development of the teaching units and the follow-
up seminars (two per semester for eight semesters) for about 30 participants.
Supply of School Science Equipment (estimated costs US$62.1 million excluding
contingencies)
2.7       Equipment Supply.  Building upon the experience gained during the
ongoing project, the project would use ICB procedures to purchase science
equipment for the SMP and SMA secondary schools. New schools would receive
kits specially designed to match course needs; existing schools would be
replenished on the basis of needs using the PPS process tested during the
ongoing project (para. 1.17). The following equipment would be supplied
during the projectt



- 24 -
Table 2: SCIENCE EQUIPMENT SUPPLY
1989/90 to 1994/95
SHP             SMA
Total number of schools to be supplied
with science equipment                        12,370           2,690
of which:
New schools under Repelita V                     1,590             470
New labs in existing schools                     1,950             610
Schools to be resupplied by
school response (PPS)                          8,830           1,610
2.8       To ensure effective management of its science equipment component,
the ongoing project obtained technical assistance and administrative support
from UNDP. The team of quality control officers, already trained and experi-
enced, with technical assistance from the German Agency for Technical Coopera-
tion (GTZ), would be continued. To improve the quality of equipment and to
make the PPS operation more efficient, the following actions would be
undertaken during the project (para. 1.20): (a) the application of PPS would
be expanded gradually to all the existing secondary schools. Teacher
participation and review of equipment lists by teams of practicing teachers at
the sanggars would be emphasized; (b) to reduce the bottlenecks occurring when
all equipment deliveries are processed at one central warehouse, the MOEC
plans to refurbish three existing regional warehousc.s.  The proposed sites of
Surabaya, Ujung Pandang and Medan would be established during the first year
of the project. Also during this year a buffer stock would be established at
the central warehouse. In about the third year of the project, the buffer
stock would be extended to the regional warehouses; (c) to improve procurement
efficiency and give the national suppliers time to improve the quality of the
limited number of items they can produce, the Government would extend the
typical equipment contract period from one year to two or three years.
Efforts would also be made to limit the scope of orders from any one supplier
to give other individual suppliers an opportunity to improve the quality of
their items and properly train their staff. The latter action should help the
MOEC shorten the two-year period it now takes for equipment to reach the
schools (from tender to delivery); (d) to continue assisting national industry
to improve the quality of locally produced equipment, support would be
continued for the development of prototype equipment. The development to a
high standard of equipment prototypes would assist national suppliers to be
more active in the tenders while improving the quality of the equipment
supplied; and (e) during negotiations, the Borrower agreed that it would by
April 1, 1994, have taken all necessary steps to provide permanent annual
funding satisfactory to the Bank for the procurement, replenishment and
maintenance of science equipment for the secondary schools (see Agreements
para. 5.2(b)]. Replenishment would occur at a minimum every three years while



- 25 -
maintenance would occur annually. It is estimated that this would cost about
Rp 14.0 million annually.
2.9        The development of prototype equipment would be continued under the
present pattern.23/ As expected, however, the improvement in science equip-
ment quality has increased costs [para. 1.20(f)]. Prior to undergoing a major
supply to the schools, the equipment already produced (physics mini-kits and
about 50 other items, with another 100 under development) should be tested for
durability. The project would supply 50 sanggars, each with about seven par-
ticipating schools, with a wide range of the existing modular equipment for
actual use and tests. In addition, a science expert from the Asian Institute
of Technology would, at the inception of the project, evaluate the prototypes
and compare their costs with international equipment of the same quality.
Future expansion of the program would be based on the findings of the above
tests and analysis. The project would support technical assistance, quality
control activities, training of staff, preparation of handbooks and further
prototype development. An understanding was reached during negotiations on
shortlists and terms of reference for the first two years of consultancies
[para. 5.1(d)].
2.10      Regional Science Equipment Management and Maintenance Training.
Based on surveys conducted during the ongoing project, the project would
assist the MOEC to make minor renovations to 54 existing sanggars to facili-
tate the running of maintenance training programs for supervisors, teachers
and laboratory assistants. It is expected that this training would double the
life expectancy of science equipment and reduce the need to replace existing
equipment that could be made functional with minor repairs [para. 1.20(e)].
Under the ongoing project, trainers for the maintenance program have been
trained and they in turn would train groups of about 15 supervisors, guru
intis and teachers in maintenance skills. Only existing equipment would be
used; samples of all new equipment being supplied to schools would be avail-
able for the training program. These courses would be linked with the PKG
science programs. The maintenance specialist would initially train guru intis
on the care and maintenance of equipment. The guru intis would then pass on
that knowledge to teachers during the extended training sessions and week-end
visits of teachers to the sanggars. Also, IKIP and FKIP instructors would be
invited to participate in the maintenance courses.
2.11      The maintenance programs would emphasize the training of laboratory
technicians, since it has been found that science equipment at schools with
well-trained laboratory assistants has a greatly improved life expectancy.
The project would train about 1,000 laboratory technicians in two cycles over
a period of two years.
2.12      The PKG subject specialist teams under the guidance of Dikmenum,
would prepare, in cooperation with representatives from industry, universities
23/ The quality control team prepares specifications for high-quality equip-
ment items to meet international standards, and, in cooperation with
local industry, manufactures them. This is done for items for which
external bidders rarely bid and the national quality is poor. These are
basic secondary school science equipment items and are not sophisticated.



- 26 -
and teacher associations, a national secondary science instructional policy to
ensure that the training programs remain relevant to industry's needs. The
MOEC has agreed to organize by the end of the first year of the project, a
science policy committee and to have a science education instructional policy
prepared by the end of the third year of the project.
Strengthening of Examinations (estimated costs US$11.0 million excluding con-
tingencies)
2.13      The proposed project would develop a coordinated and institutional-
ized system for managing the school-leaving examinations (Ujian Akhir) in
place of the existing ad hoc system as follows:
(a) Examinations Operation. The responsibility for the operation of
examinations would be shared by Dikdasmun and Balitbang/EDC with the
former assuming responsibility for the operation of examinations and
the latter for research, analysis and feedback (para. 1.21).
Annex 10 summarizes the management steps and responsibilities of
Dikdasmen and EDC for the preparation and administration of examina-
tions. A functional team for examinations in each kanwil, chaired
by the Head of the kanwil would include two specialists in each of
the five subject areas (mathematics, science, social sciences and
two languages) plus one specialist in education evaluation. During
negotiations, the Borrower agreed that it would establish within the
M4OEC by June 1, 1991, PKG examination teams with terms of reference
and membership satisfactory to the Bank, and by February 1, 1993,
establish in each Provincial education administrative office,
functional provincial examination teams with at least ten subject
specialists and an evaluation specialist, each with qualifications
and exKperience satisfactory to the Bank [see Agreements, para.
5.2(c)]. At the primary and junior secondary levels, the kanwils
are to be responsible for the entire examination process. Table 3
indicates the evolutionary shift from the existing system (with ad
hoc question preparation), to an item-bank-based examination system
with institutionalized question preparation. Thus the preparation
of examinations would become a permanent, annual activity.
(b) Question DeveloPment. Questions for the examination will be of two
main typess pretested items, drawn from the national item bank, and
items written for specific examination papers.
2.14      The item bank would include questions of all types:  in short-
answer, essay and multiple-choice formats. Each year, each kanwil examination
team would receive a copy of EDC's item bank on computer diskettes. Other
than some core national items, the proportion of items used would vary from
kanwil to kanwil and from subject to subject. The item bank would be 'open'
(questions will enter the public domain once they have been used for the first
time). Thus, a large reservoir of items, which would undergo frequent updat-
ing or renewal will be necessary [para. 1.22(b)]. Coordination of examination
operations and question development for the item bank is to be the respon-
sibility of the Project Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (PMCC) (para.
2.26), with a Secretariat chaired by Dikdasmen and coordinated by the Director
of Dikmenum at the national level and the Head of the kanwil in each



- 27 _
Table 3s  EXAMINATION PROCESS
aIM SW PSWsMat1N
(I,tt,*it m1"gad uW  c rated by 6DC)
Gmtemat G                              1tt  r.vimi
nootruanl  It_ %ritn  Itt_ rtvdI"}      selectioni
objmti_o  t(vrt e  rP etetn_  tr iat  Viraelto  V.l tetton  itm  ta
writr  In  ordie            coodinated
retwby EtlC                 by EOC
FUI1  PIRU.  .tInw   C.C_
(tmtit,*temtiaed atd cora1ravtd by peaumnot iAnittee chaired by Sikdasen)
loet onsome1y
%lii-tiel   ltm clectitn  (.ltiple f#m)  fter _    ep  Okplicetian
_;~~~~~4 _g                     40
K.uil. ap,'oed  awtil       Kawil      KeWVil    KEEl)
by nStil                   
eaem utslth detilnt bd  uri tth 
"M1, lDC       K1 §1 
province. The PMCC would assure the proper linkages with the PKG activities.
At the provincial level, the PKG functional team responsibilities would be
expanded to examinations, with details to be finalized during the first year
of project implementation.
2.15     Training.  Major emphasis would be given to the training of
provincial-level staff responsible for the operation of examinations as fol-
lows [para. 1.22(c)J: In-country (a) special tailor-made courses at the
degree level with assistance from a link external examination institution,
would be organized at Gadjah Mada University. It is anticipated that 67 staff
responsible for examinations (54 from the kanwils) would participate;
(b) short courses, both national and provincial, mainly on the management of
examinations are planned for about 175 participants, 135 of them from the
kanwil offices. At the provincial level, about 2,200 junior and senior
secondary teachers would attend practical instruction focused on the
preparation of high-quality examination questions. In addition, training
programs on specific topics, such as statistics and computer management, would
be run for about 200 participants. For some of the specialized examination
training programs, taught in Bahasa Indonesia and run nationally for the first
time, experienced external consultants would be involved during the initial
preparation and instructional stages. International Programs (a) degree
training: although the main degree training program will be run in-country,
opportunities for about 14 international masters and 5 PhD level fellowships



- 28 -
would be provided for EDC, Dikdasmen and curriculum staff; (b) non-degree
trainings short courses and "hands-on" experience within well-recognized
international examination centers are planned for about 166 staff including
about 108 from the kanwils. An understanding was reached during negotiations
on the detailed training programs for the first two years of project
implementation (para. 5.1(b)].
2.16      Consultancies.  The project would finance about 100 manmonths of
national and international consultants: (a) to assist with management
activities and the setting-up of the joint training and research programs in
examinations; (b) to help EDC establish a desk-top type printing unit and to
coordinate the national and international training programs; and (c) from link
institutions, to assist with the setting-up of the degree training courses and
the national training programs in specific topics and to give organizational
assistance to EDC. An understanding was reached during negotiations on
shortlists and terms of reference for the first two years of consultancies
(para. 5.1(d)].
2.17      Applied Research.  A series of studies, aimed at improving the
quality of examinations, is planned. A list of topics has been established
and would undergo updating each year during the annual project review.24/
2.18      Equipment.  The project would support the acquisition of personal
computers with accompanying peripherals, optical sensing machines for reading
responses to multiple-choice questions, and a limited number of photocopiers
for the examination units in each province and EDC.
B. Management Improvement Activities
Data Management (estimated costs US$7.5 million excluding contingencies)
2.19      To reduce eventually the incompatibility of the various MIS subsys-
tems developed within the MOEC, the project would fund an MIS analysis to
include Dikdasmen, Balitbang and the Secretariat General (para. 1.23). The
Pusat Informatika which is responsible for MIS coordination, would, with in-
ternational and national consultants and participation of MOEC staff, under-
take the study. The study would inventory all ongoing software, hardware and
MIS activities. It would lead to the development of standardized codes and
reference files necessary for an integrated data system, and would identify
actual and proposed data collection to be undertaken to improve knowledge of
female participation in secondary education programs. It is recognized that
the MOEC operational units have specific data needs for which timely avail-
ability of data is essential; the study, however, would focus on the need to
have compatible information for national and regional planning and management
purposes.
2.20      The first group of MIS operational activities would be an analysis
of personnel, finance and logistics within the Secretariat General; the second
24/ An example of a topic is development of open-ended and essay questions
and their effectiveness compared to forced-choice questions for measuring
cognitive skills of various types.



- 29 -
group of activities would be within Dikmenum. Dikmenum, which piloted SOIS,
PKGIS, the Management of Personnel data (DIS) and PPS (para. 1.24 and
Annex 3), was selected as the MOEC unit most suitable to pilot the coding and
reference files once the national MIS study is completed. Annex 11 indicates
the data linkages between the existing Dikmenum-DPDOS activities and Pusat
Informatika. It also indicates the processes and steps that would be under-
taken for data collection starting with the schools and culminating in
national policy development. The goal of the pilot to be undertaken by
Dikmenum and Pusat Informatika is to test the feasibility of the process. An
understanding was reached during negotiations on a set of indicators for the
Pusat Informatika and DPDOS activities which has been developed and included
in Annex 12 (para. 5.1(c)). The integrated activities would lead to the
unification of data collection forms and processes, and gradually result in an
integrated and standardized data collection process. To achieve this, the
project would support the development of standardized software, manuals and
guidelines, the publication of an MOEC-MIS bulletin, operational visits in
country and overseas, the development of an MOEC-MIS training center and the
training of staff.
2.21      The project would continue DPDOS and related personnel training.
The systems are described in Annex 3. DPDOS is computerized centrally at
Dikmenum and the kanwils, with data being generated by the schools and sent
directly to the kanwils or via a sanggar. During the project, DPDOS would be
piloted down to the district (kandep) level in two provinces (Central Java and
South Sulawesi).
2.22      Staff training for the above DPDOS systems would continue for the
Dikmenum operators who are acting as trainers in the kanwils. This training
would be given at the regional, national and overseas levels for selected per-
sonnel in programming systems analysis and systems management.
Management Training Program (estimated costs US$10.6 million excluding contin-
gencies)
2.23      The management training component to be implemented under the
Secretariat General is intended to begin the implementation of an MOEC-wide
integrated management training approach (para. 1.26). The Government's
commitment to adopt such integration was stated in the May 22, 1989, MOEC
Policy Statement, and was further refined in an October 5, 1989, Ministerial
Decree (kepmen) and in the Integrated Management Study carried out under the
ongoing project. The intended goals of the Integrated Management activities
are listed in an annex to the kepmen. In view of the importance of subsequent
MOEC management training, during negotiations, the Borrower agreed that it
would by September 1, 1990, review the results of the Integrated Management
Study and by March 31, 1991, furnish to the Bank for comments, a detailed
action program for integrated management training based on such review. Such
action program would thereafter be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank. As a condition of disbursement for management training, the Borrower
would have commenced implementation of the action program for integrated
management training [see Agreements, paras. 5.2(d) and 5.3).
2.24      The management training component of the project would be comprised
of the following elementst



- 30 -
(a) Management Assessments and Consultancies. Training needs assess-
ments are to be carried out at the inception of the project for
central and regional staff of the Secretariat General bureaus of
personnel, finance, logistics and planning (para. 1.26). These four
assessments are to provide the basis for the design and conducting
of training programs, and will identify training priorities in terms
of program content and client groups. Next, training needs assess-
ments are to be carried out for central and regional staff of the
Bureaus of Legal Affairs and Public Relations, International Cooper-
ation and Organization. Short-term consultants (about 8 staff-years
of expatriate consultants with 12 staff-years of local consultants)
with appropriate expertise will be engaged to assist MOEC staff in
conducting these assessments while developing suitable in-country
training programs. The Secretariat General's Training Advisory
Board in conjunction with the existing PIU will manage the training
assessment and programs. The PIU will also coordinate the acti-
vities of the expatriate and national training advisors, the link
institutions in neighboring countries and the MOEC Center for Staff
Training (Pusdiklat). It will ensure that the courses run by
Pusdiklat and the various bureaus are practically-oriented. An
understanding was reached during negotiations on a shortlist of link
institutions and consultants to be employed [para. 5.1(e)].
(b)  Management Training.  Training of management staff is to be carried
out according to the priorities and needs identified in the training
needs assessment studies. This training is to be 60-702 "hands-on",
practical training delivered on-site to kanwil and kandep staff,
including school supervisors. Training programs would be developed
and training would be provided according to the model successfully
implemented under the UNDP Steppes project for Planning Bureau staff
training. The model includes: (i) needs assessment and topic iden-
tification; (ii) preparation of training syllabi; (iii) drafting of
training materials; (iv) revision of materials and training of
trainers; (v) implementation of training; (vi) follow-up reinforce-
ment exercises; (vii) evaluation and review; and (viii) preparation
of guidebooks. Overseas fellowships in education management would
also be provided for about 25 masters degrees and 5 doctorates for
staff within the Secretary General's office, the kanwils and
Dikdasman.
(c) Strengthening Evaluation and Monitoring. A pilot is to be carried
out by the Secretariat General in six provinces to test alternative
approaches to improved evaluation and monitoring in the MOEC. Among
the objectives of this activity are the streamlining of reporting
requirements (through elimination of redundant or unused data series
currently required of various education units), improved feedback to
data providers, and development of the capacity for action-oriented
evaluation of project and program performance. Meetings and work-
shops are to be held at the central and regional levels, and a
series of manuals and other guides for evaluation and monitoring are



- 31 -
to be produced and distributed. This activity would be coordinated
by the Planning Bureau and would assist the MOEC to improve the
preparation of its annual budget and development plans.
Policy Studies and Project Preparation (estimated cost US$1.7 million exclud-
ing contingencies)
2.25      Three policy studies would be carried out by Dikmenum and reviewed
by the MOEC as a basis for future policy actions addressing key quality and
equity issues in secondary education (paras. 1.28-1.32): During negotiations,
the Borrower agreed that it would furnish to the Bank by January 1, 1992, an
action Program satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of the
management studies: "Policy Options for Improved Equity in Secondary
Education," 'Recurrent Input Needs of Secondary Education' and 'Public Support
for Private Education'. The Borrower would carry out these studies under the
coordination of Bal!tbang and in consultation with the Secretariat General and
Dikdasmen [see Agreements, para. 5.2(e)].
(a) Policy Options for Improved Equity in Secondary Education. The
quality of secondary schooling varies widely according to the capa-
city of local communities to supplement meager public funding for
nonsalary recurrent expenditures through parental contributions,
with the result that students from poor families receive inferior
quality secondary schooling.25/ The study would examine options for
improving this situation through such means as targeting the school
entitlement formula for the central-government subsidies and
providing a compensatory fund for schools in poor areas. The study
would evaluate the efficiency of alternative approaches of targeting
public subsidies to secondary education (in terms of poverty dis-
criminating power of the targeting investment), as well as the
administrative feasibility of implementation.
(b) Recurrent Input Needs of Secondary Education. This study would
develop prior!tized prototype lists of required recurrent inputs for
teachers, support staff, textbooks and educational materials, phy-
sical facilities, equipment and services (electricity, etc.), for
general secondary schools (SMPs and SMAs), together with cost
estimates. This information would be used as a basis for planning
and supporting requests for routine budgets for these schools.
(c) Public Support for Private Education. The Government's plan for
expanded secondary school coverage under Repelita V calls for an
expanded role for private schooling. Better supervision of private
schooling by the MOEC is necessary, however, to overcome defici-
encies in private school quality. This study would examine current
patterns of public support to private schooling and would develop
251 The financial situation of public secondary schools and the specific
instruments of public-school finance are described in Chapter 3 of the
report, Indonesia, Basic Education Study (World Bank Report No. 7841-IND;
June 30, 1989).



- 32 -
criteria for appropriate levels and forms of such support to be pro-
vided in the future.
(d) Project Preparation. About US$0.5 million has been included in the
project for the preparation of future projects.
Project Management and Implementation (estimated cost US$1.5 million excluding
contingencies)
2.26      Day to day implementation of the project would be managed by three
existing PIUs established under the ongoing project and located in Dikmenum,
in Balitbang's EDC and in the Secretariat General, all within the MOEC.
Dikmenum's PIU would be responsible for teacher upgrading, the environmental
program, provision of science equipment, the DPDOS and studies and for the
management information system in coordination with Pusat Informatika. EDC's
PIU would develop and coordinate the examinations system and the MIS
activities of Pusat Informatika (with Dikmenum and the Secretariat General).
The PIU in the Secretariat General would be responsible for the management
training program and studies. During negotiations, an understanding was
reached on staffing plans for each PIU which would be reviewed annually
[paras. 2.28 and 5.1(f)]. To coordinate the collection of data, monitor
implementation progress and assist with the operation of all three PIUs, the
MOEC has established a Secretariat to the Project Monitoring and Coordinating
Committee (SPMCC) attached to Dikdasmen (Annex 13). It would be staffed with
a full-time Director, Accountant, and Procurement/data collection specialists.
It would meet at least quarterly to make recommendations on activities such as
how to better link curriculum, examinations and operational activities to
improve the quality of examinations questions and later on how to use the
feedback from examinations to improve curriculum and teaching approaches.
Another activity would be to prepare jointly a strategy for the
update/printing/distribution of the PKG worksheets in the science subjects and
mathematics to the secondary schools. The SPMCC would prepare reports every
semester on its activities. The Project Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
(PMCC), chaired by the Director General of Dikdasmen, in turn would oversee
the work of the SPMCC, and include as members, the Secretary General, the
heads of Balitbang and DGHE, and representatives of the Ministry of Finance
and the National Development Planning Board (Bappenas), with other key senior
officials as necessary. The members of the PMCC have been identified and
terms of reference and final staffing plans drawn up. Due to the complex
nature of the project, and to avoid the problems that occurred during
implementation of the ongoing project due to yearly staff rotation, the Bor-
rower nominated by negotiations and agreed at negotiations, that it would
appoint by July 1, 1990, key staff for the three PIUs and the SPMCC for three
year terms. These positions would be filled by full-time staff or at most two
persons devoting at least one-half their time to each position. New staff
would have a three-month overlap with the then existing staff [see Agreements
para. 5.2(f)]. Key staff would includet Unit I - Dikmenum: Project Director,
Accountant, Procurement Officer and Education Specialist; Units II and III -
Balitbang and the Secretariat General: Project Directors, Accountants and
Training Specialists.
2.27      The services of international and national consultants and
fellowships would be required for the effective implementation of this



- 33 -
project. A list of the types of consultants and for how long they would be
employed is given in Annex 14.
2.28      Because this project will involve staff at all levels and its
activities are highly decentralized, to facilitate implementation, the Staff
Appraisal Report and Working Papers would be translated into Bahasa Indonesia.
About 1,000 copies would then be printed and distributed to all the key
offices at the central, regional and district levels. Also to facilitate
understanding of the project, the MOEC plans to hold regional seminars once
the project becomes effective. In addition, five provinces have been selected
as centers in which to monitor implementation progress. Following the
fieldiprovincial review, an annual review would be undertaken. Key imple-
mentation indicators are given in Annex 15. During negotiations, the Borrower
agreed that it would undertake a comprehensive project implementation review
in October each year, commencing in 1990. The results of each such review
would be discussed with the Bank [see Agreements, para. 5.2(g)].
2.29      The project would be implemented over a period of about five and a
half years beginning at approval or about five years following effectiveness.
All project components are expected to be completed by June 30, 1995. The
closing date would be June 30, 1996. The implementation schedule is shown in
Annex 16.
Status of Project Preparation
2.30      This project was prepared almost entirely by MOEC officials and
integrates the results of an analysis of the ongoing project done by MOEC,
consultants and Bank staff. All the activities proposed are ongoing, or have
been piloted within the MOEC. A major policy statement was signed by the
Minister of Education in May 1989 which deals with the main issues identified
in the PKG teacher training programs, in the management of the Ministry and in
part, in the administration of the examination system (Annex 4). One area
which still requires attention, however, is MOEC's management and the con-
tinued training of its staff so they can respond better to MOEC's ever-
changing needs. An ongoing study will form the basis of the new integrated
management concept the MOEC wants to implement during Repelita V. Although
the project includes a large number of activities, it is well-prepared and
internalized within the MOEC, particularly within Dikmenum, which will be
responsible for over 802 of project activities. Due to the
analysislevaluation undertaken of the pilot activities, the status of project
preparation is quite advanced and MOEC readiness to implement the proposed
project has been satisfactorily demonstrated.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$223.4 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table 4
and by category of expenditure in Table 5. (Detailed project costs by year,
purpose, component and PIUs are given in Annexes 17, 18 and 19).



- 34 -
Table 4:  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS DY COMPONENT
Rp billion             US$ million      Foreign as
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Z of Total
Improvement of secondary
education quality
Teacher upgrading through
PKGISPRG training        114.0   32.0  146.0    64.4   18.1   82.5    22
Developing an environ-
mental program             0.6    0.1    0.7      0.4    0.0    0.4    10
Improving the quality of
science education:
Procurement and distri-
bution of science
equipment               25.4   74.4   99.8    14.4   42.0   56.4    74
Testing and quality
control                  1.3    1.4    2.7      0.7    0.8    1.5    53
Regional science equip-
ment management and
maintenance training    6.1    1.3    7.4       3.4    0.8    4.2    18
Strengthening the
examinations system       10.9    8.6   19.5      6.1    4.9   11.0    44
Subtotal education       158.3  117.8  276.1    89.4   66.6  156.0    43
quality
Strengthening education
management
MOEC management infor-
mation system              1.8    2.3    4.1      1.0    1.3    2.3    56
Dikmenum operational
systems                    5.0    4.3    9.3      2.8    2.4    5.2    46
Management training
program                   10.4    8.2   18.6      *.9    4.7   10.6    44
Studies/project
preparation                1.5    1.5    3.0      0.9    0.8    1.7    50
Subtotal education
management              18.7   16.3   35.0    10.6    9.2   19.8    47
Coordination, monitoring
and evaluation of project
implementation               2.4    0.3    2.7      1.4    0.1    1.5    10
Baseline cost            179.4  134.4  313.8   101.4   75.9  177.3    43
Contingencies:
Physical                     2.7    8.8   11.5      1.5    5.0    6.5    76
Price increase              39.8   30.3   70.1    22.5   17.1   39.6    43
Subtotal                  42.5   39.1   81.6    24.0   22.1   46.1    48
Total project cost /a      221.9  173.5  395.4   125.4   98.0  223.4    44
la Includes local taxes estimated at US$3.1 million equivalent.



- 35 -
Table 5: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
RP billion          US$ million        as 2 of
Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign Total  total
Civil works                    0.2    0.0    0.2      0.1    0.0    0.1   25
Equipment, books and
educational materials       31.0   81.1  112.1    17.5   45.8   63.3   72
Technical assistance           5.3   11.9   17.2      3.0    6.7    9.7   69
Fellowships                   30.4   27.1   57.5    17.2   15.3   32.5   47
Local training                99.2   11.0  110.2    56.1    6.2   62.3   10
Studies/project preparation   2.0    2.1    4.1       1.2    1.1    2.3   50
Coordination, monitoring
and evaluation of project
implementation               2.4    0.2    2.6      1.3    0.2    1.5   10
Incremental operating costs   8.9    1.0    9.9       5.0    0.6    5.6   is
Baseline cost           179.4  134.4  313.8   101.4   75.9  177.3   43
Contingenciess
Physical                     2.7    8.8   11.5      1.5    5.0    6.5   76
Price increase              39.8   30.3   70.1    22.5   17.1   39.6   43
Subtotal                 42.5   39.1   81.6    24.0   22.1   46.1   48
Total project cost      221.9  173.5  395.4   125.4   98.0  223.4   44
3.2       Baseline costs are estimated at December 1989 prices.  Civil works
costs include only minor renovation of textbook warehouses in three provinces
and of sanggar workshops and are based on costp for similar work in the
provinces. Equipment estimates are based on costs currently being paid for
similar equipment under the ongoing project. Equipment, books and educational
materials imported under the project would be exempt from duties and taxes. A
value added tax on locally manufactured equipment would amount to a total of
about US$3.1 million equivalent. Import duties or taxes on building materials
have not been identified separately in project costs as due to the small size
of the civil works component, such taxes for this project are negligible.
Technical assistance costs are also based on recent costs for comparable
technical assistance in the ongoing project. Costs for consultants include
salaries, allowances and travel. Unit costs for fellowships are estimated
from about US$1,600 to US$3,500 per student month for overseas fellowships
inclusive of international travel. Local training costs vary widely depending
on the type of training being given.
3.3       Project costs include a contingency allowance of US$46.1 million for
unforeseen physical conditions and for estimated price increases. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 8.52 of baseline costs for the supply of equip-
ment, books and educational materials and for civil works, and at 52 for
equipment and materials distribution and production, and for specialists.
overseas fellowships, and studies. No physical contingencies have been
provided for local fellowships and training or incremental operating costs.
Physical contingencies for coordination, monitoring and evaluation of project



- 36 -
implementation average about 3.72. Price contingencies were calculated for
both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual
inflation rates:
FY 89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95
Foreign                   7.2      5.8     4.4     4.4      4.4     4.4
Local                     7.5      6.0     5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Accordingly, total contingencies represent about 26X of baseline costs and
aggregated price increases represent about 222 of baseline costs plus physical
contingencies.
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$98.0 million (about 442 of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following estimated foreign exchange percentages: civil works--25Z; supply of
equipment, books and educational materials--85Z; expatriate specialists and
overseas fellowships--85Z; studies--50Z; and equipment distribution, materials
printing and production, local specialists, f'ellowships and training, salaries
and honoraria, local travel, coordination, .onitoring and evaluation of
project implementation, and operations and naintenance--IOZ.
Financing
3.5       The proposed Bank loan of US$154.2 million would finance about 702
of total estimated project costs (excluding about US$3.1 million equivalent of
value added tax), including 1002 of the foreign exchange costs of the project
(US$98.0 million) and 45Z of the local costs of the project (US$56.2 million)
(Table 6).
3.6       The annual, post-project cost of maintaining the activities intro-
duced under the project is estimated at US$7.7 million, consisting of the
annual cost of: (a) maintaining the in-service PKG training program for new
teachers, and for refresher training sessions (US$4 million), (b) replenishing
stocks of science equipment in existing schools and stocking new schools (US$2
million), (c) maintaining the science equipment repair program (US$0.5 mil-
lion), (d) maintaining the national and regional examinations item banks
(US$0.7 million), and (e) maintaining the DPDOS data systems (US$0.5 million).
Provision of ongoing budgetary support to maintain these programs is not
expected to be a problem for the Government as it constitutes less than 1.72
of the existing routine budgets for secondary education and education
management, and represents less than a 252 increase over the amounts which the
Government is currently financing from its own resources for the specific
activities in question. However, although their cost is modest, the
maintenance of the actions enumerated above is essential to the project's
long-term objective of progressively and permanently raising the quality of
secondary education. To underscore the Government's commitment to providing
the necessary financing after the close of the project, it would provide
permanent annual funding for science equipment--the major physical procurement
under the project (para. 2.8).



- 37 -
Table 6* FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government       IBRD     Total        IBRD share
(Z)
Civil works                          0.2             -       0.2             0
Equipment, books and
educational materials             21.7         57.2       78.9            73
Technical assistance                 0.1         11.7       11.8            99
Fellowships                          2.3         36.6       38.9            94
Local training                      36.0         39.7       75.7            52
Studies/project preparation            -          2.7        2.7           100
Coordination, monitoring and
evaluation of project
implementation                     0.4          1.5        1.9            79
Incremental operating costs          6.8             -       6.8             0
Unallocated                          1.7           4.8       6.5            74
Total                         69.2         154.2      223.4            69



- 38 -
Procurement
3.7       Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 7 belows
Table 7: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Procurement method             Total cost
1c.cluding
Category of expenditure    ICB         LCB    Other La   N/A       contingencies
Civil works                 --         0.2     --         --             0.2
(0.0)                            (0.0)
Equipment, books and       58.1       18.9     6.9        --            83.9
educational materials (42.3)    (13.6)   (5.0)                      (60.9)
Technical assistance        --         --     12.3        --            12.3
(12.1)                   (12.1)
Fellowships                 --         --     39.7        --            39.7
(37.2)                   (37.2)
Local training              --         --     --         75.7           75.7
(39.7)        (39.7)
Studies/project             --         --      2.8        --             2.8
preparation                                 (2.8)                     (2.8)
Coordination, monitoring
and evaluation of         --         --      --         2.0            2.0
project implementation                                 (1.5)          (1.5)
Incremental                 --         --      --         6.8            6.8
operating costs                                        (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                 58.1      19.1    61.7       84.5          223.4
(42.3)    (13.6)  (57.1)    (41.2)         (154.2)
Notes  Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the loan.
la   Includes international shopping, direct purchase, selection of consul-
tants following Bank Guidelines and selection of fellows using existing
Government administrative procedures.
Contracts for the small amount of construction in the project--renovation of
textbook warehouses in three provinces and of 54 sanggar workshops--would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Regular and modular science equipment kits for new SMP and SMA would be bid
using ICB procedures in accordance with Bank Guidelines while science equip-



- 39 -
ment being procured under the PPS system and items needed under other project
components would be grouped to the extent practicable to fonm attractive bid
packages. Those packages estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more
would also be bid on the basis of ICB procedures. Items which cannot be so
grouped and printing and delivery services within Indonesia, would be awarded
on the basis of LCB, under Government procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Miscellaneous equipment items, deliveries and printing in packages not
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent and subject to an aggregate total of US$5.8
million equivalent could be procured on the basis of at least three price
quotations. Books, computer software and other educational materials
(estimated value US$1.1 million) would be procured through direct purchase
after negotiations for discounts.   Prior Bank review of bidding documents and
contract award recommendations would be required for all contracts for equip-
ment awarded on the basis of ICB. Specialists would be selected in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursements
3.8       The proposed loan of US$154.2 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of six and one half years (Annex 20). The disbursement schedule
is based on the implementation schedule and the disbursement profile for edu-
cation projects in Indonesia. It is somewhat faster than the present profile,
reflecting the improved experience with more recently approved education proj-
ects in Indonesia and the advanced state of preparation for the proposed proj-
ect (para. 2.30). Disbursements estimated for FY90 are based on the proposed
initial deposit into the project Special Account and expected FY90
disbursements (para. 3.9). Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) equipment, books and educational materials (including delivery)--1002 of
the foreign costs of directly imported equipment, books and educational
materials and of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured items and 65Z of
the costs of locally procured equipment, books and educational materials and
delivery; (b) lOOX of the total cost of technical assistance, fellowships,
studies/project preparation and coordination, monitoring and evaluation of
project implementation; and (c) 50Z of the total cost of local training except
for the examinations training component at SOZ and monitoring/evaluation at
100 .
3.9       Disbursements from the loan for all contracts for equipment awarded
under ICB procedures and for technical assistance and studies would be made
against full documentation. All other disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditure for which relevant documents would be retained and
made available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. To
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account (to be used by the three PIUs)
would be established at the Bank of Indonesia and maintained by the MOEC under
the direction of the Director General of the Budget, Ministry of Finance. The
Special Account would be used to make payments in all categories for all local
expenditures and for foreign expenditures for fellowships and other small
items. Advance payment to the PIUs would not be pre-financed from the Special
Account. The internal allocation of the Account would be in amounts US$8.1,
0.6 and 0.7 million for the PIUs in Dikmenum, Balitbang and the Secretariat
General, respectively, with an initial authorized deposit of US$9.4
equivalent. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted to the Bank quarterly when the balance is 50X of the initial



- 40 -
deposit, or more frequently if necessary, in an amount of not less than
US$200,000 per application. Disbursements against foreign expenditures may be
based on direct payment from the loan and special commitment procedures in
amounts of not less than US$50,000 equivalent per application.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
3.10      Each of the three PIUs would establish project accounts for all
project expenditures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting
practices. Project accounts including the Special Account (para. 3.9), would
be audited in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Within nine months of the end
of the Government's fiscal year, the Bank would be provided with audit reports
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified statements
of expenditure. The PIUs would also monitor progress in project implemen-
tation and report to the Bank each semester on this progress. Within six
months after the completion of disbursements, the director of the SPMCC would
submit a project completion report to the Bank.
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       The project would improve secondary education quality and equity
through:  improved teacher training programs benefitting about 200,000
teachers, 5,300 key teachers and 150 teacher instructors; the supply of
instructional materials and science equipment benefitting about 660,000
teachers and 10,000,000 students; and improved examinations which would
benefit about 39 million students, and by identifying essential inputs
necessary to impart qualitative secondary education. Management would be
improved through management training of: about 640 subject supervisors; about
25 long-term and 2,500 short-term officers/teachers in the management and
operation of examinations; about 500 supervisors by giving them largely
decentralized and more relevant training at the regional and district levels;
about 300 administrative staff in data processing; about 25,000 principals in
combined pedagogical and management skills; and about 20,000 middle level
officers at the provincial level and 200,000 at the district level concen-
trating on operational training in areas such as personnel, finance and
logistics using a 60-70% "hands-on" type of training. The latter training
would improve the general administration of the MOEC, standardize data
collection, and improve the feedback and utilization of the data, thus
facilitating sound decision making. Also, by giving attention to the
administrative process at the provincial and district levels and updating
operational regulations and analysis of financial resources, necessary to
facilitate the best utilization of the subsector's limited resources,
sustainability would be increased.
4.2       The risks are that quality improvements will not be institutional-
ized and made sustainable and that the new management skills will not be
implemented due to the partisanship of the numerous units within the MOEC. In
addition, the appointment of key staff for teacher upgrading and the PIUs
might be delayed as in the past. The latter risks are reduced because the
MOEC has clearly identified within Repelita V, the new Education Law (March



- 41 -
1989) and the new policies (May 1989), a new status for the teacher upgrading,
examination and management training activities. Under the project, specific
arrangements will be instituted to encourage project sustainability and the
MOEC has agreed to establish a permanent SPMCC staffed by experienced full-
time personnel. Also, the MOEC in cooperation with the State Ministry for the
Utilization of Government Apparatus has approved a new MOEC career structure
and undertaken a review of the role of its administrative units, with a view
to applying the new policy of integrated management.
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       During negotiations, understandings between the Borrower and the
Bank were reached on:
(a) Staffing plans for the PKG programs including the nominations of the
Head of Education/National PKG Coordinator and the professional
staff (subject specialists) (para. 2.5(k));
(b) Detailed training plans for the in-country and international
training programs in examinations for the first two years (para.
2.15);
(c) Implementation indicators for Pusat Informatika and DPDOS coordina-
tion (para. 2.20 and Annex 12);
(d) The shortlists and terms of reference for the first two years of
consultancies for the PKG, science equipment, and examinations
[paras. 2.5(c), 2.9 and 2.16);
(e) A short list of link institution(s) and consultants to be employed
to carry out the management training needs assessments in the
Secretariat General (para. 2.24(a)]; and
(f) A staffing plan for each PIU (para. 2.26).
5.2       During negotiations, agreements were reached that the Borrower
would:
(a) appoint by July 1, 1990, the Head of Education/National PKG Coor-
dinator who would be either one full-time person or at most two
persons devoting at least one-half their time to the position. The
Head would be appointed for a three year term. For effective oper-
ation of the PKG programs, Dikmenum would, by April 1, 1992, fill
all vacant positions for national and provincial subject specialists
(in science, mathematics, Bahasa Indonesia, English and social
sciences, with suitable qualifications and experience as teachers)
[para. 2.5(k)];



- 42 -
(b)  by April 1, 1994, have taken all necessary steps to provide
permanent annual funding satisfactory to the Bank for the procure-
ment, replenishment and maintenance of science equipment for the
secondary schools [para. 2.8(e)];
(c)  establish within the MOEC by June 1, 1991, PKG examination teams
with terms of reference and membership satisfactory to the Bank, and
by February 1, 1993, establish in each provincial education
administrative office, functional provincial examination teams with
at least ten subject specialists and an evaluation specialist, each
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.13(a)];
(d)  by September 1, 1990, review the results of the Integrated
Management Study and, by March 31, 1991, furnish to the Bank, for
comments, a detailed action program for integrated management
training based on such review. Such action program would thereafter
be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.23);
Se)  furnish to the Bank by January 1, 1992, an action program
I tisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the management
-|udiest 'Policy Options for Improved Equity in Secondary
Education," "Recurrent Input Needs of Secondary Educationa and
'Public Support for Private Education". The Borrower would carry
out these studies under the coordination of Balitbang and in
consultation with the Secretariat General and Dikdasmen (para.
2.25);
(f)  appoint by July 1, 1990, key staff for the three PIUs and the SPMCC
for three year terms. These positions would be filled by full-time
staff or at most two persons devoting at least one-half their time
to each position. New staff would have a three-month overlap with
the then existing staff (para. 2.26); and
(g)  undertake a comprehensive project implementation review in October
each year, commencing in 1990. The results of each such review
would be discussed with the Bank (para. 2.28).
5.3       As a condition of disbursement for management training, the Borrower
would have commenced implementation of the action program for integrated
management training [paras. 2.23 and 5.2(d)].
5.4       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$154.2 million equivalent to the
Republic of Indonesia, with a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
five years, at the standard variable rate.



INDONESA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMEN PROJECT
Educatlon Shicue, 1969
Glwd* *    2                                                                     1 4    5    6  7    a    9  tO  t    t2  13   t4   15   16  17 Is   9    2D   21
AGOl 7    ts    9    tO   I 112            13 t  4    Ist  15   t7   IS                            10   2D   2t   22             23  2z           2    20   27
t       lW                    AROROSECNAY             SEORSECONDAD I
EOUCATM                EDUCATION
c &CATICN(1988)                                                                              - -
1 St(Sawo)         *  52(aS(P   a)         SJ  t(D)
Baioeem"                                       Agf,I  DIwner
*   Sdia~L~~Eww*i(VP)r
0   solowDe                                                                                                       1
A Ph
SSho (SMO t 
AUVWftgct                                                                                     I                          IW
6"DE n~~~~L                                      _        -@
*   SeL4E                              & Nr~~~~~~~~~c D Sehf   TXtam I&W
,__n  st h                               ~~~~~~~~~~I r_OH Ircr   .



INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Organization d the MInisty of Educaton and Culture
Mllstry of
EductiO & Cultur
1  ESecrora                                                                               7 Centers
Gerwd       & Devebpment                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Generof
Inspectorates                                                                 7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bureau$
Tag UnS
Secaxboy Educatin |d Hgher Ejalo                                                  |  Non, o 8 Eclols|o-         
DirectorateM dn
World Bank-26347
M c



45  -                                               ANNEX  1
Chart 3
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Dlmclorate of General Secondary Educatlon
Directorote d
Genrmal seenowovt
Education
AdrdnWskation
General Seivices       Pe=snn              Finance
ot JunciratGeero           &b-DG "                         Sut-Dimetocle              Sub Dlrec&orate
Secondarv Educotbon        SeoK      Idc                      o   t ntr1bHrn
|   uwu                        cu |         i ur              Cumiculum     l      | DatoCllaec on 
L    Teeching Shff   _    Tecaching Staff                 Teaching Staff          Seca   EducalIon
MWorldng
.     School                    School                          SchWo                   Inrnvlon
Admidnitlntion             Adlns                          Ad.  1  atlon         1     Monbodng 
Wor d Bank-26348



INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Numbers of Schools, Students and Teachers by Type of School in 1987/88
(Public and Private Schools)
Schools                          Students                           Teachers
Type of School                Public   Private  Total       Public      Private       Total       Public   Private    Total
A.   Primary education        134,737  43,840  178,577  24,760.479  3,418,838  28,179,317  1,040,873  148,490  1,189,363
1. TK (Kindergarten)         57  33,538   33,595         6,537  1,503,784   1,510,321       11,910   68,043       79,953
2. SD (Primary)         134,660   9,901  144,561  24,751,835  1,898,055  26,649,890  1,027,997   77,103  1,105,100
3. SLB (Special)             20      401      421        2,107      16,999       19,106         966    3,344       4,310
B.   Junior secondary
education               7,086  12,536   19,622   3,655,902  2,792,119   6,448,021    183,442  212,599    396,041
1. SMP (General)          6,820  12,435   19,275   3,559,448  2,778,110   6,337,558    176,662  211,419    388,081
2. ST  } Vocational         193       62      255       80,503      12,353       92,856       5,434      953       6,387
3. SKKP)                     73       19        92      15,951       1,656       17,607       1,346      227       1,573
C.   Senior secondary
education               2,382   7,672   10,054   1,572,803  2,223,010   3,795,813         88,667  178,106    266,773
1. SMA (General)          1,533   5,438    6,971       997,208  1,463,030   2,460,238       57,412  126,869    184,281
2. STM/SMT)                 188      707      895      151,480    255,752       407,232       9,816   18,181      27,997
3. SMEA   } Vocational      301   1,010    1,311       232,462    355,346       587,808      9,979   21,854       31,833
4. SMMK   }                  93       56      149       37,090       9,032       46,122      2,379       897       3,276
5. SPG ) Primary teacher  212        424       636     120,533    125,591       246,124       7,420    9,440      16,860
6. SGO )  training           55       37        92      3§,030      14,259       48,289      1,661       865       2,526
Total        144,205  64,048  208,253  29,989,184  8,433,967  38,423,151  1,312,982  539,195  1,852.177
Source: MOEC, Planning Division, Dikdasmen.
1!



-47 -                               ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Data Processing Dikmemum Operational Systems (DPDOS)
(a) The School Information System (SOIS) for processing of routine
information from the schools for operational management including:
numbers of pupils and classes; numbers of teachers, the subjects
they teach and their formal qualifications; and school facilities.
Except in pilot schools, the above data are collected and analyzed
manually. The project would implement the piloted computerized/hand
back-up forms in all secondary schools.
(b) The PKG/SPKG Information System (PKGIS), now in its early trial
stage, provides information on the scope and spread of the PKG in-
service/on-service training programs: teacher participation;
subjects these teachers teach; schools where employed; levels of
teaching; records on training programs, etc. The present manual
collation has made it difficult to effectively plan training
programs that respond directly to actual teacher needs.
(c)  The Supply of Science Equipment by School Response (PPS), which
elicits and processes requests from schools for the supply of
science equipment. The PSS, successfully tested in about 3,200
schools, would be expanded to all secondary schools.
(d)  The Material Management System (MMS) computerizes with a manual
back-up card system, the stocking of science equipment in the
central warehouse. The system is now undergoing its first pilot
test and it would be tested once more prior to being decentralized
to regional science equipment warehouses. At the central level, the
system would be further piloted with other educational materials,
particularly books.
(e) The School Administration System (SAS), which has been piloted dur-
ing the last two years as a result of the spontaneous development in
schools of interest in personal computer systems. This has led to
the acquisition by schools of large numbers of computers. The SAS
seeks to promote coordination, standardization and nationalization
in the use of computers in school administration. It provides com-
puter awareness courses for school principals and runs training
programs for school computer managers. This effort, made available
to about ten provinces during the current pilot, would be extended
to the other provinces during the proposed project.



- 48 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of MOEC Policy Statements - May 22, 1989
The Policy statements of the Minister of Education and Culture deal
with secondary in- and on-service teacher training, development of an examina-
tion system, management and training activities and development of a manage-
ment information system for the MOEC. The full text of the MOEC policy state-
ment can be found in the "Working Papers." The main policy statements are as
follows:
A. Teacher Training
(a) Incorporating PKG instructional materials into the official curricu-
lum (lesson plans, worksheets, instructional materials, laboratory
manuals, audiovisual aids, etc.) and recognizing that Bahasa
Indonesia, science and mathematics subjects will be given the
highest priority for improvement in the next five years;
(b) Recognizing a new career promotion scheme for primary and secondary
teachers which reflects greater emphasis on professional merits and
would accommodate professional careers for PKG instructors, assis-
tant instructors, guru intis, etc;
(c) Bridging the gap between the pre- and in-service teacher training
programs enabling PKG instructors to become involved in the
preparation of new secondary teachers; and
(d) Establishing linkages among the teacher training programs PKG, DPG,
PPPG and IKIP/FKIP to maximize use of existing resources.
B. Development of Examinations
(a) In support of the new Education Law (Articles 43 to 46 inclusive),
mandating the official running of examinations and allocation of
resources for evaluation and giving responsibility for the overview
of these activities to the EDC; and
(b) Assigning EDC as its main role, to assist Dikdasmen which is
responsible for the operation of examinations, with the development
of an examination system and with utilization of the examination
results as a basis for decisions to improve education quality and
the management capacity of the regions and educational institutions.
Regional institutions would gradually be given the responsibility
for the running of examinations. To achieve these goals the follow-
ing actions would be undertaken:



- 49 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
(i) Strengthening the capability of the Director General,
Dikdasmen, responsible for the coordination, implementation,
monitoring and supervision of national examinations at the
primary and secondary levels;
(ii) Strengthening regional capacity at the provincial and district
levels to enable them to run efficiently examinations that
promote improvements in educational quality;
(iii) Developing further the institutional capacity of EDC to assist
Dikdasmen and the regions in planning and conducting
examinations and strengthening its capacity to undertake
research and development of examinations systems, particularly
in analyzing for decision-making, information gained from the
results of examinations; and
(iv) Replacing the ad hoc committees presently running examinations
by permanent bodies so EDC and Dikdasmen can cooperatively
manage the examination programs continuously and permanently.
C. Management Training and Management within MOEC
(a) Developing an integrated system of administration and management to
improve the efficiency and productivity of MOEC managerial units at
all levels (Education Law, Articles 12 to 15 inclusive);
(b) Undertaking a study to define and operationalize the basic concept
of integrated management and conducting a review of the duties and
functions of each managerial unit (both horizontal and vertical--
kanwil through kecamatan) to determine how well they support the
concept of integrated management;
(c) Giving attention to MOEC data collection to improve the gathering,
storage and retrieval of that information. More compatible data
would be collected to facilitate information utilization and its
presentation in useful forms which would enable improved com-
munication among MOEC units and thus facilitate problem analysis,
decision formulation and preparation of operational
plans/strategies. The above would also facilitate monitoring and
control by MOEC managers;
(d) Strengthening the evaluation, monitoring and supervision of programs
to ensure quality and efficiency improvements in implementation and
reporting;
(e) Undertaking management staff training needs assessments to identify
the participants for in-country and overseas training and the types
of training required;
(f) Giving assistance to the Secretariat General to coordinate the
utilization of management information within the Secretariat
(collected by various management units in the MOEC) in order to



-50 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
improve efficiency, avoid duplication and overlap and eliminate
wastage;
(g) Developing an efficient MIS to improve administrative and manage-
ment processes in the MOEC at the central, regional and institu-
tional levels; and
(h) Establishing, under the coordination of Pusat Informatika, a cen-
tral coding and data file system to facilitate establishment of
compatible MIS data bases within each operational unit of the MOEC,
thus facilitating effective and efficient communication and manage-
ment of the education system.



-51                                 ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated PKG Project Costs
1. Sauggar-Based PKG Training
1988189
Unit cost      Total cost
Subject                  Years      Participants         (Rp)           (Rp mln)
Science                  1-4           69,120           450,000          31,104
Mathematics              1-4            48,000          400,000          19,200
English                  1-4            48,000          400,000          19,200
Bahasa Indonesia         4-5           18,000           400,000           7,200
IPS                       5             6,000           400,000           2,400
Subtotal                         189,120                            79,104
Plus a sum equivalent to 25Z of the annual budget to facilitate the transition
from sanggar-based PKG training to MGBS/MGMP programs beginning in year 5
(science, mathematics and English only).
Science                                                                   1,512
Mathematics                                                                 900
English                                                                     900
Subtotal                                                             3,312
Total                                                               82,416
2. Traditional Provincial PKG Training
Unit cost      Total cost
Subiect                  Years      Participants       (Rp mln)        _(RP mln)
Bahasa Indonesia         1-3            4,860              1.22           5,936
IPS                      2-5            5,250              1.22           6,405
Total                             10,110                            12,335



-52 -                               ANNEX S
Page 2
3. Training of Guru Inti and Assistant Guru Inti
Two one-year provincial-level programs. Each guru inti participates twice.
Unit cost    Total cost
Subject                 Years    Guru Inti    Cycles    (Rp mln)         (Rp mln)
Science                 1-4         2,400        2           1.65          7,920
Mathematics              1-4          960        2           1.60          3,072
English                  1-4          960        2           1.60          3,072
Bahasa Indonesia         4-5          960        1           1.60          1,536
IPS                      5            480        1           1.60            768
Total                         5,760                                 16,368
4. In-Country Training for New Instructors (Science, Mathematics, English)
National training program; 2 weeks, 2 years.
No. of              No. of       Unit cost       Total cost
Subject            participants           courses       (Rp mln)         (Rp mln)
Science                     70               2            1.10               154
Mathematics                 40               2            1.05                84
English                     40               2            1.05                84
Total                 150                                               322
5. National Workshops for Instructors and Supervisors
Annual program: All PKG instructors and supervisors participate.
No. of              No. of       Unit cost       Total cost
Subject           participants            courses       (Rp mln)         (Rp mln)
Science                    200               5            1.10             1,100
Mathematics                150               5            1.05               787
English                    150               5            1.05               787
Bahasa Indonesia           125               8            1.05             1,050
IPS                        125               8            1.05             1,050
Total                 750                                            4,774



53 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 3
6. Training of Principals
(a) Provincial training (2 weeks, one course per principal)
Unit cost                  Total cost
No. of head teachers                     (RP)                       (Rp min)
4,500                           320,000                       1,440
(b) International training, selected principals, two per province (3 months).
Total cost (US$)
No. of Participants            Course            Travel              Total
54                     480,000           81,000            561,000
7. Instructors: International Training (3 Months)
Includes induction training for instructors in Bahasa Indonesia and IPS.
Total cost (US$)
Course            Travel
Subject              Participants  (US$9,000 each)  (US$1,500 each)    Total
Science                   96             864,000          144,000        1,008,000
Mathematics               36             324,000           54,000          378,000
English                   36             324,000           54,000          378,000
Bahasa Indonesia         100             900,000          150,000        1,050,000
IPS                      100             900,000          150,000        1,050,000
Total               368           3,312,000          552,000        3,864,000
8.  Supervisors and Provincial Heads of Secondary General Education:
International training (3 months).
Total cost (US$)
Subject                  Participants       Course         Travel           Total
Sciencelmathematics           30            270,000        45,000          315,000
Bahasa Indonesia              27            243,000        40,500          283,500
IPS                           27            243,000        40,500          283,500
Kepala Bidang                 27            243,000        40,500          283,500
Total                                  999,000       166,500       1,165,500



- 54 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 4
9. Postgraduate Diploma and Masters (52) Courses (International)
Mainly for instructors.
Total cost (US$)
Course             Travel
Subject          Participants   (US$24,000 each)   (US$2,000 each)        Total
Diploma (12 months)
Science             36              864,000            72,000            936,000
Mathematics         18              432,000            36,000            468,000
English             18              432,000            36,000            468,000
Subtotal         72           1728,000             144,000         1,872,000
Masters (12 months)              (US$25,000 each)   (US$2,000 each)
Science             30              750,000            60,000            810,000
Mathematics         15              375,000            30,000            405,000
English             15              375,000            30,000            405,000
Subtotal         60           1,500,000           120,000          1,620,000
Total                                                              3,492,000
10. Consultants
(a) International consultants (average visit of 1.5 months).
Total cost (USS)
No. of           Stipend          Air
Subiect                 consultants       and exPenses      travel        Total
Science                      36             540,000        126,000         666,000
Mathematics                  24             360,000         84,000         444,000
English                      24             360,000         84,000         444,000
National language            16             240,000         56,000         296,000
(for B. Indonesia
program)
IPS                          12             180,000         42,000         222,000
Total                  112           1,680,000        392,000      2,072,000
(b) National and provincial consultants.
Type                                No. of consultants              Cost (Rp mln)
National consultants        10 (7 subjects, 1-2 consultants)               420
Provincial consultants    238 (7 subjects, 34 training teams)            1,474



-55 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 5
11. Materials and Equipment
Unit costs             Total cost
(RP)                  Rp mln)
Sanagars and MGMP/MGBS (240)
Overhead projector                                500,000                120
Personal computer and printer (with             8,000,000             1,920
color monitor, 2 floppy disk drives,
EGA card megabyte)
Electronic typewriter                             400,000                 96
Spirit duplicator                                 300,000                72
Library acquisitions                            1,000,000             1,200
per year
Center
Production of PKG bulletin            6,000,000 per issue               240
(one issue per semester,
four subject areas, 5,000 copies)
Production of curriculum materials                                    3,500
Total                                                              7,148



INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Overview of Training Flows: Sanggar-based PKG System
manuEl                                              UOrIAL                                              MOffi
I            a~~~~~~~~~I
Cntimafio                 Naio
Couusas ~ ~   ~     a'lc o
Nalnalt.o/aiaindh                           s
? an               J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tem 
Pruvinolal ~ ~    ~      ~      lai      bef-u
lnkmtleml ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ o                      b      tleiJ
fop~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
omrqico                                     lutmtos                   GMs s  bl n o
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Cnu taits t.  fsez.
b.                                                             (C     lntas  t 4wtrgCnsu taits   GDbl     
UAE#IUS lsuqi             Nail..  ea                Itsxtrute                 Guru ntl 
Ie3Nuloe               -                     Nationa Ipan              Instruto                  Gun Inff (Iushtuta
131KW3  I lnsuoio         lstrqmtr                  G uru ntl                 TeanwM -s 
OGusu,l               -                     Instiutous                Guru ntl                  Icasus"         



IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES FOR SANGOAR-BASED PKG TEACHER TRAINING ACTIVTES
Note: 1) TheaOw arehv 8W uasagde.* Thq m,    i need  um  daUwJa W hto o        u mof
J)Sba*dbavWbwhiltcvvwm Numiubmi bovu x,*tewn*w in* covwedddog omm
JAWA TENGAN AND JAWA TIMUR (30 Sanggars each)
YEAR
1              2              3              4              5
SANGGAR GROUPS A, B and C
(S sanggars in each goup)
Guru Ind Traini                      13  | 24  !                           E[Ii|                   MGBSI
MGMP
Teadcer Training: Intake X         | 3  |2        |-5                                              activitaes
Intake Y                            13  i 24  1                 i      i       i
SANMGAR GROUPS D. E. F
(5 sanggars In each group)
Guru Int Training                                   1-3    2-4                  [I7    JI1-   ]
Teacher Trai : IntakeX X13                                                                Eval
Intake Y V                                         1-3    2-4 15|     Eval
Note: Three Instuctor training teams needed for Jawa Tengah and Jawa Timur.
Each works with guru Intl from 2 Sanwar groups in alternate years:
YEAR
1       2       3      4       5
Instructor team 1        Group A   Group DGroup A Group      -
Instrucor team 2         Group a  Group E Group B Group E
Instructor team 3        -Group C  _Group F Group C Group F
Proqcted teacherpatcon rates achbied during pro otbased Ocn approdmae esimates of teacher numbrs in pubic and pre SMP. SMA by 1899M
Jawa Tengah                            Jawa Timur
__ Science  Maths Eigllsh             Science Maths Endish 
Teacher-cycles               8,640  6,000  6,000                   8.640  6,000  6,000
Teacher 8t (1992 est)        5,000  4,300  3,300                   4,600  3.700   2,5
Cycles: Teachers              1.72    1.40    1.81                  1.88    1.62    2.40



- 58 -           ANNEX:6
,  lI'm"                 {'I '
10   ii S               i9il l  I



- 59-                 ae4
': M   g  fl  p~~~LI
FU    
all      .:.     i 
o            3 iI 3sXi  i'



- 60 -
.                   ~~~~~~~ANNEX 7
X . 
tg~                        gii t



- 61 -
iND SE lTXQND              _    PRiJE
SBCa  SSMQMRY ONION!f~  AM 1MANOMMMMPRJ~
care 1 Paea.i SlanU.ar-aaJ "      S  . pP1
CIHOOLL AW KAIMXLS     Ru                                      ERE-SRVICE TEAOH51 WUCATION
(National PM SublJect Officer.)
P.  .                      Fa*
Kepala 
li; dang                  C
Dikuienue                                             *
Prn; pl                                                                                           000")_>  roinil  
School ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ntratoa Traning (S2  degree)
iDeputy1 
Prtncipul,                 1<_-u _e rro
Crriculuml
a
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
T"Cb~~~~~~~~~~~~
Superyleor, ~ ~    ~     ~     I CCCCCCCC*C   Prvncr innC ttnl
SoMr         cyls
CoerdinCer iorintr
*                                               K
Now Teachers            C**eeCe. .ee.eeet _
ScIMl  Senctior (                                                                                        Mactart s
Ce..ee...eee.e.......e                                      degree)                                 ill
> Pathways within 84ool/Kanvil System
soosee"oe, Pathways within PitCiS  nd Path ne linkionl P     an
with school v-t e and pro- rvico techers education



XrAM
SECOM            E MSTIRN AMr PJr
Wls 1 nd Reai nalbilitis of Provincial-LAwol and bnsIr-ivl FlStaff
Alan t Guru Inti (AGI)                     Guru Intt (OX)                           Instructor                     Provincial coordinator
Rehp_aibilities                       Works 2 days p.a. as AG!              Works d day p.w. -                    Works d ay  p.-. a  instructor        Works 3 days p.w. -so PF  Coordi-
Worki 4 days p... as cls             Works a days p.. as Clem              Workis 1 dy p.. a  clasa               nator
teacher                               tacher                               techer                                Works 3 days p... as sup* rvisor
1.  Asaifte the CZ during block      1. Organizes and conducts block       1. Organizsm and conducts block       Responsible for the minageaent
inser1ice training,  nd dur-         inservice training at weely           Inservic. training for guru       and administration of PM at the
ing weeky meetings                   emetinga                              intt (provincial  vel)           provincial level, but noit for
its, professional direction
2.  Conducto weekly meetings at       2. Organizes 38 errvice visits        2. Visits throe sangar centers        (which is the responsibility of
subsanggr centers  If nec-           for each participating                for 4 das tetce ech sea-          the instructors)
eawry                                tzcher. and conduct   about          ter, during which he spends
us at thee                                                             Duties include liaison with
8.  Carries out about 806 of                                                    (a) one day en * rvicing GI      echool  incipal (aoa
echol visit.. In subenagar                                                      and M a at the weekly        aekolh), prticularly in
r"e                                                                             meeting                      eanggpr schools
(b) one daq visiting schwool
oensrvicing 0'  and A0I
cc) "a days visiting
schools with local
supervisor, acting as
profelsonal advisor to
all teachers In hi* sub-
ject aea"
Mi_bero noeded                        Science:    240   oaggrs a 3.720      Science. 240 maangars x 8d1.200       Science:       84 teams of 8.170      One per province (27) in each
Other subjecte:      240 x 2.480     Other aubrJcte:    240 x 2-  480      Other aub-:    84 team  of 83102      subject area                                  C
jacte
Criteria and od  of mslecon           Selected frm teacher. by CS and       Selected from AG  (not directly       Selected from _onp CI (or             Selected by Kepale Bidang
instructors  on basio   perfor-    from teachers). Hust have:              premnt astent instructorm)            Dilkenus fromong supervisors
mance in esnggar-based P.                                                                                         (preferably ax-instructors)
llst have cop I eted at leat tao      (a) cop ieted at least one cycle     Must havo worked as CW  for at
traditional PFM or two saggar-           of GI training                     least two cycle
based PMM cycles
(b) worked as ACS for at least 2
aesesters
Training                              Induction: Non                        Induction: None                       Induction:  two-wee  natienal-       Induction: None
level progrm for three cone-
During service: Provincial-          During serviee: As for AlI            cutive year.                          Durin  service:
level training for 04 and ACI.
Two annual cycles  separated by                                            During service:                        (a) n ational:  participation in
one yer                                                                     (a) national:  paricipation in           annual workrhops (2 wek)
annual workshop  (2 weeks)        (b) international:  8-week
visits to activity-based in-
W  intenational: academic up-            servicing programs in other
goigprogram.  One-year            countries
il    or two-year "motors
(S2) qualificationa
Career pethesys (se Annex 8)          In project: Prombtion to 01           In project: Promotien to              In  roject: Promtion to senior       Promotion to sore senior posts
t instructor                         (625 instructor                       within IMOE
_n xschool:   ppoinnt  as- cer-
dinator. MM  or NSW                  In school: Appointmnt as eoor-    In school:  Promotion to echoeol
dinetor, PM  or NW                   principal
Appoint_nt as Deputy Principal,      In teacher educetion (sugges-
Curriculum                           ted):  Appointmnt as Meeter
Teher working with teaching
practice program at IKIP or FKIP
I



i  jg-Iit                      i- I,[| t                         .9      t i-0i.5          Ig  lr         33 { t3g{   -i8{!| 
I  I  I I ~~~~I I  if                                                     unIiItt     
.
rei-r-i^1§r {                             t     ! I tt'-                     tgg        f 7t      ! .          i- l- 
--Ga  -2  - - - - ----    -  -                            f   f - -t - - - --        -              1- 
Rh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
s i.J    I  15III      I                                       1 J    II   I I  Ii 
Ii      ,                      *              a   *#  ,    .  a    a    a  c E s  f       
s.     ----------------------------------------- - --
I
-   -    -     -  -  - -   -   --   -  -     -   -     -  -   - -    -  -     -  -     -  -    --   -  - -   -   -     -   -     -   -  - -  -   -     -  -     -  -  - -  -   --  -   -     -  --
-    - -    - -      - -      - -      - -      - -      - -      -      - -      - -      - -      - -      - -      - -      - --



-64-                                ANNEX 11
....   ....... ..  .
IiW 1111 12j
(4    |                  lii               :       ii
Il              I        S      IuI:i              I
Xi              I1                            \,      ,,,,,I
I.              I  Itla  I                                     lT T



- 65-                            ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Indicators for Pusat Informatika and DPDOS Project Coordination
During project implementation the following coordination actions
will be undertaken:
Year 1
(a) MOEC sends by June 1990, a circular advising that the operational
units of Dikmenum in cooperation with the Pusat Informatika.
Planning Bureau and kanwils will carry out an analysis of their data
needs and its utilization.
(b) The most efficient and cost-effective way for Dikmenum to collect
school data for its omn operational purposes and for use by other
MOEC units also is identified.
(c) An analysis of the data (from the SMP and SMA) required by Pusat
Informatika and the Planning Bureau is carried out in parallel with
development of an integrated data collection form.
(d) Reference file development and standardized coding are prepared by
Pusat Informatika in cooperation with Dikmenum.
(e) First preliminary integrated data form is trialed about July 1991.
(f) Dikmenum and Pusat Informatika training programs are undertaken as
specified in the work schedules.
(g) End of year progress report is prepared and next year's work plan
finalized.
(h)  Report is submitted to the PHCC and the Bank for review.
Year 2
(a) Training and preparation for the first trial of the integrated data
collection process.
(b) Pilot use of revised/combined data form is tested (two large, two
medium, two remote and two dispersed provinces). Operation is
undertaken by Dikmenum in cooperation with Pusat Informatika and
Planning Bureau.
(c) Quarterly kanwil meetings, chaired by Bidang Dikmenum, are held in
the trial provinces, to review progress and resolve problems.
(d)  Training programs for programmers and other staff are continued.
(e) Cooperation between the computerized and existing manual data recap-
itulation teams is planned to lead to one integrated operational
process at the trial kanwils. Suitably qualified personnel from
existing data processing units are identified for retraining for
computer entry and as manual back-up operators.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 12
Page 2
(f) Training programs continue.
(g) Annual report would include the guidelines for standardized soft-
ware, the MOEC Informatika Bulletin and a report on the completion
of the first cycle of the overseas long-term training programs. It
would also report on the integrated data base development at
Dikmenum and selected kanwils.
Year 3
(a) Second round of pilot trials of integrated data collection is con-
tinued and all provinces are given the option to join the program
after adequate training of their personnel.
(b) Upgrading of software and data processing are continued for
Dikmenum, Pusat Informatika, Planning Bureau and kanwils.
(c) Staff training continues and networking of hardware units is under-
taken.
(d) Mid-term review of progress towards achieving Immediate objectives,
to be completed by the end of the third year.
Ce) Annual report is prepared.
Year 4
(a) As an outcome of the mid-term review a timetable for implementation
of the integrated data process is established for all the kanwils.
Based on their readiness and on availability of trained personnel,
the period for complete implementation will vary from province to
province, but a feasible plan for the implementation is developed in
each province.
(b) Staff training continues and is expanded to incorporate all the
provinces.
(c) Annual report is prepared, provincial progress reviewed and future
plans updated.
Year 5
(a) Schedule for terminal evaluation established and submitted to the
PMCC about mid-year.
(b) Component evaluation undertaken during the second half of the year.
(c) Review of evaluation tabled and recommendations for further
support/actions identified.



*                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ri
rtt
El  X3N            X                                9     
X *                                                                       Ptj}  .OZ
Iti *1g
ET  X3                                 ~~~~~~~~- L9 -



- 68 -
SlUU SEWhARY 3EATICH AND MU&NOeI  FROJFT                                              Peas I
Technical £-e -  d  F  Ilehla
Specleisat.                                           Fellowehle.
Staff-     Totsl                  ----.. -Studnt-month  sech----------
month,    staff-                  Short-      Oiplom                                 Total
"Aber    eath        mnthe      tueer       term        or St        MA         PhD        *tud.nt-monthe
Inrvewent of oecvn.de.r aducatlogn auallA
Teecher upgredleg through FiGSPKO trainIng:
Speci*Iists:
International
Science                                        Be        3.8          84
Mathematics                                    24        1.5          38
Engltsh                                        24        1.8          86
SEheas Indoneel                               l          1.s         24
IPS                                            12        1.8         1i
Nat mlen
Natlonal 1eve1 consultants                     10         20         200
P,ov;n Cil 101 consult nt.                   288          S       1.190
Fe ll_eh;p:
Overe....
Instructor.
Short courn el
SCIe nce                                                                   9 '                                                           280
Natha.tlca                                                                 88           S                                                100
EnglIsh                                                                    80           3                                                10L
Bae.. Indocasl ;                                                           co          a                                                 300
UPS                                                                       100          3                                                300
Diploma coura.:
Se nee                                                                    8as                     12                                     432
astheatlce                                                                 is                     12                                     216
"fish                                                                      10                     12                                     210
;eet... degree.
ScI nce                                                                    s0                                 12                        seo
Nst.eheslce                                                                18i                                12                        t1o
- nglish                                                                   IS                                 12                        t1o
Principol' seort ceure.                                                          54           a                                                162
Supr.rloors' ehort, courses:
Sd .ncln   matl.eeetie                                                        80o          3                                                 90
Bahasa Indonesil                                                              27           3                                                 at
IPS                                                                           27          3                                                  01
Kevplo Bd"n                                                                   27           8                                                 01
tocl:
Instructors:
Science                                                                       70           4                                                280
Mathematl c                                                                   40           4                                                160
Enegl la                                                                      40           4                                                180
Prlnclpefe' ahort cure_a                                                      4.800           a                                             13.S00
lptrovlng the quallty of science eduecatlon
Tasting end quality control:
Internotionel apeclallats:
LoOg-tAr                                        1         Go          go
Short-term                                      2         iS          tS
ReginaeI scienve equIpment mnageent
and repair program:
Intenftstenal special let                          I         go         a3
National conwultent                                1         90          90
DevelpIng snd coordinating the *mwainations
Special lsts:
International                                 sraeo      serise         80
NatIonal                                      Vories       erie.         so
Fa lIoehio*:
O,re,aeS:
Meeter. degrees                                                                  14                                 24                         336
Shor                                                                              S                                            24              120
Short enuree.                                                                   166       6 */-                                                996
Local:                                                                              SO9
D egres                                                                         U64                                 24                       1.383
8                                            24              n2
Short coutee:a
NatIonal level                                                               178     Varlsa                                                  60
Provincial level                                                           2.200        0.3                                               2,200
SpecIfIc topIee                                                              200        0.8                                                 100



- 69 -
Puge 2
B..oiul j-te                                           Fpllo.hio
Staff-     Tostl                  --- --St sd nt nnticb------
WOnth,    utsff-                  Short-      Diplo. ntoul
Numbr    *sch        uoths,    M&,ber       t*,-        or DA        "A         PMD        sudo.t-an,the
a n n s n o s n a s n s si n i n s s n s u i n                             n    n      m      n    n r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wn ,nssaaws.s
Mute manaemengt Ipforustlon syst..
Spcltsl 1st.
International long-term technical  dvinor          1        60           60
International short-tarm technical od,lsor         9      varies         20
Local consultants                                         v,,riee       120
Ps oss1.hips,
O.4roess:
Hsaters dugrv.                                                                     2                                24                          4t
S.in.ro md sorkshovp
Local
DiKE0U op.rstionsl *y*bos:
Senior retdent udvdsor                       I         G0          S0
Supply syste   upucul l.t                    1          4           4
Syat.u  unolyt                               1         10          10
So.ior pmomrur/d.te manager                  1          a           a
Schol *system. ..clsliut                     I         t0          10
Overseas fslloouhIpa:
Diploas. (12 ownth. such) .1th mn-eguntry
attachment (6 s.th- .ach)                                                     Is                      18                                    770
Masters dugres.                                                                   10                                12                         120
Study grunt, for senior uducotore                                                26           1                                                 25
nreo e.snt trani.ng p.greg
Specia lts:
International:
Long-ter..
Egulustion and wonl%orlnge                   1         12          12
1         24         24
training sdvlsors:                          2          36         72
1         24         24
Short-term from Thailand and Malaysia    varie        varit           64
Advisory Dord                                   a           I          a
Local co.noultwnte                                 1         60          60
2         24          48
verlew     varl-           St
Advito,y board                                  7           1          7
FPllovshtps!
overseas,
9hos,                                                                             6                                            48              240
most*"                                                                           25                                 24                         600
Short-ta-r                                                                   varues       Mdes                                                  70
Language training                                                               100      nut
Sp.c,al .isita                                                               van.         rtis
Studies:
DD0MI
Policy option. for improved equity
in secondary  ducstion                          4          2           a
Public support to prstv education                  2           3          6
Facilities sod rqntnhg *sponcs  In
SNP and SMA                                     t          J          16
S.cr-tarit Generar-
Personnel                                          2           2          4
Finance                                            2          2           4
Loulstic*                                          2          2           4
l4nsg..w.t studies (7*/-)                         21           2         42
i3 i
s tnt.rnotiornl:  28          National.  58
a--oof-tf  .r nsas  aa. na



-70 -                        AM        14
Page 3
Technical Assistance
By comparison to past education projects in Indonesia, this project
would rely more heavily on the services of local consultants. International
specialists would work at all times in cooperation with HOEC personnel or
national consultants. Consultants would be used for the following activitiess
(a) For teacher upgrading, the consultants would be national except for
a number of international subject specialists who would be engaged
on a short-term basis (typically of 1 to 2 months duration) to train
the national instructors and to assist with the updating of national
subject content and methodology. Use of these specialists would
ensure that the most up-to-date information is included in course
preparation, in addition to training the national PKG instructors to
assume full responsibilities for all PKG development and training
activities. The specialists would teach the courses during the
first phase, would teach them jointly with national staff during the
second phase and would assist during the third phase, thus
generating a local capacity for the sustained operation of the pro-
gram. Also, to ensure that the external training of the PKG
instructors matched the country's needs, the institutions from which
the international specialists were recruited, would be contracted to
undertake the diploma and post graduate fellowships abroad.
(b) For the supply of science equipment, the majority of the consultants
would be nationals with the exception of two international long-term
advisors and a limited number of specific short-term international
specialists to assist with procurement and management.
(c) For examination activities, the consultants would assist with the
establishment of examination courses in a national university and
with the development and implementation of examinations on specific
topics. A link institution, probably an external examination
institution or university actively engaged in examinations work,
would assist the newly trained and inexperienced EDC and MOEC staff
with examination and organizational matters, on a short-term basis,
particularly during the first two years of the project (such a link
would overcome the shortcomings of the examlnation activities being
experienced during the ongoing project). These specialists would
impart skills that do not exist in Indonesia and would train their
counterparts to continue with the operation. Training activities
would emphasize the operational knowledge, particularly at the
regional level, required to upgrade the quality of examinations.
(d) For the MIS study, the HOEC would obtain the services of experienced
international specialists in education data processing. Part-time
assistance by external specialists would also be required for the
implementation of improved data processing. For DPDOS,
international specialists would assist with the development of
national training programs, international specialists, run the
external upgrading programs and offer timely implementation advice
and assistance to the national consultants, in their training of
provincial staff.



- 71 -                       ANNEX 14
Page 4
(s) For the management activities under the project an international
specialists would be employed to assist the Secretariat General
undertake skills assessment within the MOEC. A number of these
specialists would be recruited from neighboring countries
(particularly Thailand and Malaysia) where important education man-
agement training programs have been undertaken. Consultants would
also be employed to strengthen Pusdiklat and to assist in developing
Thands-on' training programs necessary to improve the efficiency of
the MOEC. Again, the international specialists' assistance would be
concentrated during the start-up period with activities gradually
transferred to national staff or consultants who would run the
training programs during the subsequent phases of the project. The
training needs assessments in the bureaus of the Secretariat
General, would be done primarily by national consultants with some
assistance from international specialists in areas where limited
experience exists within the MOEC (particularly on the needs
assessments and methodologies).
(f)  The policy studies on subsidy targeting, recurrent budget needs for
secondary schooling, and MOEC support to private schooling are
expected to be conducted by joint national/international teama, in
which the international inputs would be particularly beneficial in
providing up-to-date experience on successful approaches used in
other countries.



mi  tnuax t_T fntS
_I.        t.Wt        lop        toJ  mod .mS I-     -    pt   Mm           01t    141.  t1o.      oli ifo m                    t .       .0             p       O  m oG    oWI/S.md.  0I..ot.ote.             At p..Jo0 t    tami-     a"
=lpd )   _  _r                 - tlr U       t m    iUD      t      t, m. t1A     ra..                                     - tIoP.. O_    dmaio mm        tXp F_TD rt                    a aototi a . 
A     -d  p;=m.Il         -Co,  mm   I,m.t.l                                                                            m          ia 
Ito.oI.;   ot      iIt
0C)  o~        *_. be      l_lmeat    te  arw             4.01.0 P    .10or  'm ...            1. i-Ultm ltlm              oOP."o le 5 P.almcsm 40. tM#lS;t _m  tDoti  acbm OSgi. et 1mjoto wt.tieb
rld     .,pImr                                        tfio.   otIt"l-.ll t.             I -  f- ....t -t   of    tt,a}       ..       Omr1.        mm          teoow  to    t1o,01,            c       -       ,       I   d 0 of ptiD.'ji
Opota                                   of~~~~~~~~~a FM*                 RUjMOIS     .0  coao'I.      &Wtl  mmd MOMi,        0
et ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~sf  all"&                              how1 O** rtllacl
t ) _4I_-damt      _f      E-Note   P=             ;-       Tact.6-  -iata                       -b       to dot   i btwfaa aV dteti "I it7r            = lb tM110  DtrteS                  IV    010.D
C.~~~~ ~       ~~~            ical d  Scj  l_  the                                              W.0
-0  iplawat date milactic.Io/d.rl0 0a.lmItl  0   IO                                                                   - o. rrlota  omo.
*lc lo I   ol                                                                                                                                                                               |~~~~~~~~~lool
Cd)      lmt. c-           b    o  *lit,b ofi0            - _     a  mom                  i.  p-to2t  dmt.                                                        Wat7                         DI . t 0t dt  -  V. itg  0.I   dm0  ad8 d0  to,t.  10 pi   I  md
aoD.tI                         soil Oriai                    Im. t ..tDim,md                  I I'm                        plo..                            o1m                           dot. It _t1,
9 aJ t.o l_                  lop. D- t do                                                                                 - w t.    I1 , d*i-_tlD
(d iili~~~~~~~~~i tle O~                           W;     Jb-s 4-ltlt _ap_dJti  NMW w lalwe -i.  ne_ Sea  ll"itr                                                          ""I           *i ab ti_TD,Aiir
_.) l~g.'do lat.ooao  to....   aol   1.  p.w 'o d              rlo wt.a        lo ot..-      -                                                            Pm ii °t-  iado.   c.°7..41
C..rrotIa                     .11,      ot.ad                to..                           -o.lImb bootIo a saa
0.    was                  Omolo    ""is    to.           - Poodo hto d).cpd     ot       l...10   I. s il              w a.-  0.tif' 1 p.,Nt1la    Vwll.  dellmo    . d  01e    A.oadm.p                r   to     ao            l      Otsft;Ta
am.do.gctoolompm.0     -C mltm.Io                    adv.dmoa  ooa                   Io& aa        d   .lmm        .0.                            C.,rlomI.o       Co..          -o   p.           rdo
-  m                               0*                   1I *.Im..  t    _  d "Fm  of a ta                                                                                          -, Y_d t-oo.   dlmDi
(b) Ms           t           wl1:                aaeb   _     272                 ti<_   NMP    71d ""ml- *r *4 No_- We                     l         Co  t_irle_ aDtw =I ma         f _s_t.mcmd_  D;clowl.    T_,0                emiD
O.  a      _~1nL.....4.LUEA                                                                                                -tr.o.o  *I. pap1    0m
C.) Fi .-o-ti                                              Ouly ki  d        mi- 1o -      oIlce   t -Is taaleo      l  I         olp _t    m *etm        tbil D. VDti dl_  ad  mm       .olom        o.oo.          A Ol    mo t
hasl p to.  .od    mmc     flint ,a. 01                                                    I-*"o po.otlawwl
Troisime        =001....                        .010.1-                                                       .1.11' doolcommoodopiw  bIt. dop Chao.     ot 10 5        .-  D*CIA.o.t7.0.. PIll            pm.,e   I o  d01poi.
apipamat ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ .o.mdrw.   p.                            ..
0) FPS  ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~         Po,~~~~~T" -9p.lom.m   a       Ttmb ito. off llob  -M.0l...I  -Sot  p totm.o  aomIwm0 I                       mIo  md        mmo.         0  .t.meate.     TOM,a~m   CCim
lob S.."im   f ml-                                       ac,  y-wri eiwy*  ow. "BSS                                       d,   bahl*Ti    d                "__
Illaftiftso-                                                                                  C~~~~~~~pto .1    oomm ~-o". aolt. .j .  d,tlIm                    1*Pr.oo.ome
(o) E1.0.0.01.             to,.   rlolIO           mdSi.OSu-   01AdTotI-                 Sotop         diot.lbotl       - oplo.oot.m a   roam         Ritow  d.itho       so         Smadoo..    01,.0000.           5  lt.wb.me
leb,aU- aodd01 dmTi.o.p                         b    tia                       mtbodr  oac..8* rogl,         4wre  mt.tltio l. S   t..                                      P.o.imm. PIofIs                                 ,1, "  
ml a   d fem.0 1to atoelo       ; so G....
-1T0ololmo y Di -om   t.t
td  Patpp  lp...molOofmI-  oooll    d   boooo  m.lp  r.o0p.  C.0..   p lt   toto          V.ly   m   da.tlI Op           PS.   Omdog   1,00.'           T4a.m   pnjo
0.00 adtolpatla.llo-  mobotmom to d..oaop p..-  ad.. 00. momolog p..Jo.0  01 p..t.to'po.           00.. UZ tod01..l mmb0.~~'J



0. ~mU        (srnW'd)
I  til;      teslstid pesmrne              .,.d.t    e...3.stlo          tern hr  .mes.is           d dT-t olet  mel         m.d*      estehIlO  fsem? h      tl      .t_i
am                            UIA~~               ~          ~         ~ W,lss  p,fe-01.S   eOejo  TsstsOsMm.b**
IL  -t s-*--l -tiC--    |em
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~t5w t _mr ._.s .ee.. emlsti _s.o~sd   e
C)i-                         ess*_  -Tzd"elsetlm  ;os,        p.e.stl  e             s.d       . -r             as ?  ,=r se    su me .                                                      i
es.lssd 01 gte mi                                              fist .   ss2sstl~.6a.:  mV to  T8  M                   .1 time =et lels    vs    ftlimelwo
med  taslels-  t.                                         le sest .,    . -10 i                                  - ,qlme dt Iest-   r * _ lm .=
Xl   tw  stao    J?=             -9          U     l     t "                         _* d te t mi_I t__t  
tU laesis.  -                                                                                                   towm -;p t  *d-le            ows t, 
.,. wd  .to of                steP-o to  I  S
r. _fs1eest1                imss edmelm aredeM
Olow~~~~~~~~~~~wl
0.3. osIleetIm  seessue.
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so
VsS0.I   .el   e OVOW     FaVldlsgI  ms or     m      bmei se          0I.        . allst                      m      1yIl  m  em            eq         W.ssmll.        TseP$leg   Is mOs-
ON"    -6            3)- i1temi  eleses                                 O'L JI.Ndla   W          -   P..0.m.mis                           N seese Jm willw Se.s.
:= In*                                                                      as  Pfts  alsosiese     s  .T   t.wle          teWI AD*"tn of de% $V                                    Oem.  Sy kw  bed dofe
.Wima)l                    .daeqes          blt 3,                         a..m.. m .of el                     o oetts.    le4..   a"1                                                 
tb".ft-                                                                                                                     41.~~~- assi.~  el 
main to be of fere dw"m  ob00 
ftil              pikol-0                                                                                                                                   Wmal35  Owss.Yaffemest 1. elI p.s-
beyl,  ~¶,,1   ~   (d ~yla   of selosee Paselsim .5   selse  ~lg3se.13h  .smeda.g        ztrAaaet of       sosp-S     V10mdsa dt  -sta..        flsda         ietate         l,~sls 
dlasetig to  .s.(WS)    mtlsemesmi  applg    sets)  mise * I-cm   el m         ele     a"dt 44o              Vanel s   teindodeiea,.ssr
om.tsae   s 0    sal....        s"               3smmma
Md.ees  s.ddisala
-be," taieseaa S.d..
*.i.sl,ele s.d eepea,3.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I



_ire               PV jeves                     P e ispto                 powjctwbe.             Ae teso  reWIre    t bliIMj   mW1.bilt                                            ti
0.  _   1jfLjd                 Ot  S mwm
Of"r e 010 NMte  eWE
wt,e J         eWV tetlstt
el  f   1   reliw  be                                                                           .5t*: : ... e5
bees dew. w we.- ~ ~   ~     ft-.                                                                  c
E4~~~~~~~~r0a,                                                                                                                                   "Comel-ow;*"Ge#  Tow  =f we>
pets  emits  wet                       effobpmw  brlplasyVO  camswoom-s *              -Preets c    etesubewib    A wNd rl 1t  i   r  flaocme
(d  |: *e iZtl- T"?±lzl  d~                                                                             t      tlzlwejOP                                                      -o_/olt =      "    me
well   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  h                                                     s~a   bl =3
(I) P,eslmuieStpslmI    Itemlol: of pviclcil ewE   :Teetmimlo mitmwoeM  Irate6 tsp   em S plo-   g bi lll a=meeetmee      - Iee oe    flil ml   PMeIn.S  Ies ins  - -ipaidci  m
tobri   MNIOM             JDIS%OSUMIA,   t             metal              toB a ePelemZ. 1 is s      mshmt a e h  S
ack j*-              11
uJrec~~aed                           :*::t  eeitclz Treiwim of *Ji xewp,= -le * ape t                  ef                  r-r2                    d                r 7$  *- des2~ pps
Seal.                 5     of                                                        j
10=10 on~ ~~~~~~1
ofet  pes.ae e I   wdeb   deT55alateeafoot  tI
N. -m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t
(e) ~~twsygwwere  aret.i,*=u   somes         all ND astsumee mm             l    refeas    -     elftalem,          Jiwemoeweab of of#i NW  3 O lerti Ohmasi 5 Ies OM   :0100se.Yas T  1p4
pi~be~efsl..   Piwew" ad    be.   Om        I ad Sidee ewm-   weeds         IS to E      -                  co-stetbwe
to Ies""s c                         eImf alobComs                                                                 I=Vted ND                 wit.. --f ad  liea
we meSas                      Sac.~~~~~~Ow  NW,r forAN  aet.biea
*)tw   aeae-   b61ewa Orheati  .4eteN   be I,,,  aemuT"  a-m                 pest i               Y ... =yNeesi. rt am 'ere"Mllenfl. I.U .brte                              i    a 
weeded                                                                                               It ueeem  lt  dabawwis Prse      sa   aii- s.    a
tia   P          -,                                     pies~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



SEmO  SECRY EIUAT1N A*D lM _A9   iFOJET
CY                  19ee            1991            1992     1     199             1994         1995
Fr         89/0            90/91           9/92            e2/s            9s/9e           e4/9s          95/96
Teacher upgrAdg through Pl/SPlQ trainiing:
Trediea F    trainin_-
Quhasa Indoneisi
eSTr=baed AM training:
Obthemti co
blamIndonesl.
Trechnical assimtance:
Poo lasuhipa:
Overseas
ecilbt lats:
liatonaI/provincial
International
Obt.rIl.i and equipment:
AT and office
Library acquisition
F   bulletin
Developing an envirmenntal program:
U     Inb the quality of cience education:
t and distribution
o(tefo  ne S   antd SA schotol and labs
FM
Testing scienc eqipment:
Tec.,Imi   team
Lacal ttraining                                                                                                   
Qusluation
ualiity control
Local training
Specialists
Renovtion of  ngpr FPO nor W==hop_
Strengtning the   instions
sy'stem:
Ds     Pto= atM o  aims netoerit, It" b_n_
Technical Assistance:
P1% los.ipks:
1.4c1l                                                    -1                                              I       I- 
l~btlonai
Internlatinal
Equipsent NW sterials
0%



CY                  1990       1    l99l           1   2I          19 8      |    1994                      1
FY         89/90           90/91           91 92           92393           93/94           94/95          95/96
Oikweiwe operational eaetems:
Technical  aeinetnce;
Psi     Pehii:
Overseasa
Local                                                      _-                                                                    
Equipuet and  ateril-s
KPOS:
Initial planning
Local training
Eva luation
ESuipet aint merial *
l~e .i nform.i on GYetes:
"Tecnca  assistance
Spcilits  intearnational and nstional
Sysete devo lopsnt:
Utility aofbare_ ____ __ __                                                                                      __ __ _                 _
Feo;bi I ity studie as
Equipuent and eaterials                                                                                                                                                         0
l4anagemn   t training progra_:
Tpechical Ieitne
Speiaele. Inntenetional                                         -       _  _  _                                - _
Fsl Ioehipa-
Overseas
Equipmant for Pudliklat
Studies--1..
Board  ate        : January 1990                                           Completion i)te: Jun 1995
Effectivean   Date: Apri l 1990                                            Closing Oato:     June 1996
Ifo'
X ,
F'



- 77 -
ANNEX L7
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
Total cost
Base costs (RP billion)           Rp   US$
89/90  90/91  91/92  92193  93/94  94195  bln  mln
Improvement of secondary
eaucation quality
weacner upgraung through
PKG SPKG training           2.8   33.6   33.3   30.4   31.5  14.4  146.0  82.5
Deve oping an environ-
mental program               -      0.1    0.3    0.3      -      -     0.7   0.4
Improving the quality of
science education:
Procurement and distri-
bution of science
equipment                 -     6.1   26.5   20.3   21.7  25.2   99.8  56.4
Testing and quality
control                         0.7    0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    2.7   1.5
Regional science equip-
ment management and
maintenance training      -      1.5    1.8    2.8    0.9   0.4    7.4   4.2
Strengthening the exam-
inations system             0.5    3.5    4.4    4.7    3.5   2.9   19.5  11.0
Subtotal education
quality                 3.3   45.5   66.8   59.0   58.1  43.4  276.1 156.0
Strengthening education
management
MUEUimanagement informa-
tion system                  -      1.0    1.4    0.8    0.5   0.4    4.1   2.3
DIXMENU   operational
systems                      -      1.1    2.7    2.2    2.0   1.3    9.3   5.2
Management training
program                      -      3.0    4.0    4.2    4.0   3.4   18.6  10.6
Studies/project
preparation                 -      1.3    0.9      -     0.4   0.4    3.0   1.7
Subtotal education
management              -     6.4    9.0    7.2    6.9   5.5   35.0  19.8
Coordination, monitoring
and evaLuaon o  project
PI1Riementiation             -       .e    0.5    0.6    0.5   0.5    2.7   1.5
Baseline cost            3.3   52.5   76.3   66.8   65.5  49.4  313.8 177.3
Contingencies:
Physical                     0.1    1.4    3.1    2.3    2.2   2.4   11.5   6.5
Price increase               0.1    5.7   13.0   15.2   18.8  17.3   70.1  39.6
Subtotal                 0.2    7.1   16.1   17.5   21.0  19.7   81.6  46.1
Total proiect cost       3.5   59.6   92.4   84.3   86.5  69.1  395.4 223.4
Foreign exchange              0.5   22.7   43.5   35.5   35.6  35.7  173.5  98.0



coori tn tion.
ti.. nnt and lbt. rl0                                                                    WDpo~n;o.i
2'rbntlng                                                                and ecluation   Incr_.ntei
Civil                            *nd      1__11                   1ai1rin-            ol               of projet         Oprraing
Work   Supply  Distribution   produco      Ttreata 0k. w i_ LoeII    tiniag   Studie   iPtlentation                        Costs    kp   icS
l_ eaent of ....ondar,, reduea _ n wisp iRtU
TO_cher uppreding thrh FXm/     training                                       740                             16 0_0 hL         e E1i                                              i i.i      l.
Devloping an environental proesr                                                                       m AmL                       an                                                  Z2         4
llprosIng the Quality of scionc   ducation:
Peourem-t nd dlstribution of science
OmuIpeent                                 lSO   3. e30       12.880        920                                                                                        370        e9760O   86.a0
teaking and rulity control                                                              1 ,800      *70                            eo                                   600        2.t5D      1,60O
Degisnal science equipeant __4a0insnt
end mintenanc training                     90 160                                       700       2S0                         S.980                                 2.270        2.440      4.2DO
Sab1o  I1                                                                  ISO t3oM1Si     3      210                         3.s                                   2.2730       7.§40      4.2 00
Strenotligni ng tug exmainations gyat.      .          .                     in                        7       L         am        a                                    A"         I"Am    SLIE
6tbrtbtl education qualit,                       MJZ2        Z                                     M L2  LM  ZJ  6 2t    in UO MZ        L0                        4 480       2le460    10 M0
6utOnotboni,p. education  ,adeamn               2     e._70       126 *4                              iL        22,t70     ;      99  L0 107                                         276-       1    0
"M  __nsgaet informtion  yt.                           620                      90        1.420       200        470      680                                             690        4.1C0     2.330  J
DiOlsu-  erationai s     :stem                                                                                   4         9
DOfa pro- I..p (UMM)                                 920                     110        1,670       860       1,840    1,650      940                                   420       74.20       2.2SO  I
Candep Ai l ot proraa   6)                          6U0                                             110                           930                                   so         1 760        490
I'nage9800  trainino prgre                             10                                4,060         100     49240      810        8,670                                970       16.84      lO.SS0
Studies/project prearation                                                              34040                                                                                        8,040      1,720
SubtotAl education magent                         iJ°                       il         7.070     I.Jn        6.0    L2 4C0               LS                          2.132       25.0t     1L810
Cn.lation  onn.t.,.i. and
a.l.stion of arroict isleg.ntation                                                                                                                        j7 tm                      jLd       IJO
Sel;ine ct                                  M        a       ZZ.5W                     3- 610    S L64     21470  j2,0   11021 10         4.10                                  31 3D 5laLn0   ML
Cont,ngncia:
Pieincra                                       20    7,920         630         320         6a0        180      1.420                           160           90                     11.420     6.480
Pric ince                                      30   22,40        3.a30       1,480       2,930        88O      8.630   5,730   2a.e0o          740         6S3         2.160        70,180    89.620
Subtotal                                          __ 20.112D  a1e2D                              __so   ao  9  7.0    3a0                   1Wo.         73         zJ_g         B°  8f 8T0mM
Tottl vro)ect cost (Rp *ill rn)            1W   124           1.460       L1          17Z1        S720       E       4U MU.6    134010    1.W                       12 oso      ML
(UW'000)              160   70 050                   4.670                  2.12      2        170    71i.7.10      iL7           L910         6 1 7
10
I
.    .~



ne
SallO S     E3QAY mATSON MQ  _M  PRO.
P.n1.ct Cnata b,. Prole i la_n4atlo Unit \a
WSi mIlion)
s to be                                                                                                           Totel Project coat
diaturwd            ihit 1-11tmnume               Urtit SS-tbane             thil t6eia.9ntl                  tbtlin nl nr.c  etinc.eao
from Loan      Local    Foraewi      Total     ol    Foenign    Totul        Locil    Foreiln    Tot"l          Local   Foreign       TO"al
Civil aIora:                        0
ToaI Cot                                                            0.2                                                           -             0.2        0.0        0.2
ton  _mwt
Equip_nt, bor and           100 CIP and
aducatinau   materials:   local si-fcto;
Totl ct 6-6 of locally                                              76.9                           1.9                            0.1            22.0      56.9       78.9
Lamn saunt                procurad & del ivory                      55.7                           1.4                            0.1            0.S       56.9       57.2
Tachenical assistance               no0
Total coat                                                           8.5                           0.4                            2.9            S.7        8.1       11.8
Lon amount                                                           0.4                           0.4                            2.9            8.6        8.1       11.7
Fsl lrahip.;                        1o
Tot al coat                                                         2.8                            6.9                            8.2            20.6      16.8       88.9
Loan amount                                                         27.1                           6.S                            8.0           18.8       18.3       86.6
Local training:            50 for Unito
Total coat                I and m. 81                               69.8                           0.4                            S.0            68.2       7.5       78.7
Loan aount                for Unit S1; 100                          86.4                           0.2                            8.1           S2.2        7.5       39.7
for davlopaant of
mon i tor I ng and
evaluation
Studieeproject preparation:         100
Total coat                                                           0.8                           0.7                            1.7 \b         1.4        1.8        2.7
Lon amount                                                           0.8                           0.7                            1.T            1.4        1.8        2.7
Coordination, mnitoring and         100
evaluation of project implasntation:
Total Cot                                                           1.0                           0.4                            0.8            1.7        0.2        1.9
Loan awmnt                                                           0.8                           0.8                            0.4            1.3        0.2        1.8
Incremental operating coetd:        0
Total oawt                                                           8.0                           8.1                            0.7            6.1        0.7        6.8
Lon amount
Unallocated.
Total rat                                                            8.9                           0.8                            0.3            1.8        5.0        6.5
Lton aount                                                           4.4                           0.2                            0.2              -       4.8         4.8
Total project coat                               109.0      84.9   198.9       7.9       6.2      14.1        8.8       6.9      1S.4          125.4       98.0        M.4
Lon aammnt                                       48.2       64.9   18. 1      8.8        6.2       9.7       4.1        6.9      11.4           87.1       97.1       184.2      0
\a beeline coots pius price increae  contingenluci
\b Include US160.S a for usa by *11 unite in futuro project preparation



- 80 -                               ANNEX 20
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Amount per          Cumulative
IBRD fiscal year      semester      Amount            z     Disbursement profile/a
and semester        ---(USS million)----                            (X)
1990
2                  6.2           6.2            4                0
1991
1                  4.7          10.9            7                2
2                  4.7          15.6           10                3
1992
1                  7.6          23.2           15                7
2                  9.2          32.4           21               13
1993
1                 18.3          50.7           33               20
2                 18.4          69.1           45               31
1994
1                 15.5          84.6           55               41
2                 15.4         100.0           65               51
1995
1                 15.1         115.1           75               60
2                 15.0         130.1           84               70
1996
1                 12.1         142.2           92               78
2                 12.0         154.2          100               87
/a  Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia
(3/10/88).



- 81 -                              ANNEX 21
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1     World Bank Report No. 4954-IND, "General Secondary Education in
Indonesia: Issues and Programs For Action,* July 1984.
A.2     Ministry of Education and USAID, "Indonesia Education and Human
Resources Sector Review,' April 1986.
A.3     Ministry of Education and Culture, "Teacher Selection and Placement:
A Study of Indonesia's Practices and Policies," September 1988.
A.4     H. C. Somerset, "Quality Issues in General Secondary Education,*
October 1988.
A.5     World Bank Report No. 7767, 'Impact Evaluation Reports  Indonesia
Sustainability of the First and Second Education Projects," May 22,
1989.
A.6     World Bank draft technical paper, "Strengthening the Quality of
Teacher Education," June 20, 1989.
A.7     World Bank Report No. 7841-IND, 'Indonesia Basic Education Study,"
June 30, 1989.
A.8     Extracts from Rancangam Repelita V Pendidikan dan Generasi Muda
Department of Education and Culture (Five-Year Plan for the Ministry
of Education and Culture).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1     UNDP, Paris, Report No. UNDP/INS/78/069, "Improvement of Science and
Mathematics Teaching in the Secondary Schools," 1985.
B.2     G. Aylward, UNDP Report No. INS/83/033, 'Supply of Science Equipment,"
May 1986.
B.3     Ministry of Education and Culture Balitbang/Dikmenun, 'Field Study of
SMP/SHA on the Use of Science Equipment," December 1986.
B.4     Ministry of Education and Culture, 'Development of Examination Sys-
tem," September 14, 1989.



-82 -                               ANNEX 21
Page 2
B.5     Ministry of Education and Culture and GTZ, 'Pre-investment Study on
School Equipment Management Training,a March 1988.
B.6     Logan and Starritt, 'PKG Mathematicss  Consultants Reports,' July 4,
1988.
B.7     Tomlinson, IPGK Bahasa Ingris (English),a December 1988.
B.8     Treagust and Taylor, 'Consultant Observations on PKG/SPKG Science and
Mathematics Programs,' January 1989.
B.9     J.S. Conroy,  "'The Program of Professional Development for Principals
of Indonesia High Schools (SMP/SMA) in Support of the Program PKG/
SPKG,a February 1989.
B.10    Auld, UNDP Report No. INS/83/033, 'Science Equipment Supply by ICB,'
April 1989.
B.11    Policy Statements of the Ministry of Education and Culture, Republic
of Indonesia on 'Secondary School Quality Improvement Through PKG; The
Development of Examination System; Management Training and Develop-
ment; and Development of Management Information Systems,' May 22,
1989.
3.12    Sitohang, UNDP Report No. INS/83/033, 'Master Plan Computer System
Development to Support Dikmenun,n June 1989.
B.13    Sitohang, Smith and Aylward, "Cooperation Between Data Processing
Dikmenum Operation Systems and Pusat Informatika," June 1989.
B.14    Ministry of Education and Culture, "Handbook For the Implementation of
Pemantapan Kerja Guru (PKG) and Sanggar Pemantapan Kerja Guru (SPKG),"
June 6, 1989.
B.15    Cegir/Ski, Indonesia, 'Management Policy Studies," March 1988 (Seven
studies dealing with education planning, personnel, general manage-
ment, roles of principals, payment of teacher salaries, teacher
deployment).
C. Working Papers
C.1     The PGK and Sanggar PGK Teacher Education Programs.
C.2     Quality Improvement Activities:  School Science Equipment.
C.3     Development of Examinations System.
C.4     Management Improvement Activities:  Management Information Systems;
Data Processing Dikmenum Operational Systems (DPDOS) and Kandep Pilot
of Dikmenun Operational Systems.
C.5     Integrated Management Training.
C.6     Cost Tables.



MAP SECTION



IAILAND   *d                         iF)                     tf        /\*o                                    ic                      o                        17
E X   , *                      -                  - '  >  s    -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILII'PINES  i.- 
A \        R,, t)7  1.'l s1      a           I S  BRUNEI',                  v
A                             4r            <o-                                                                                     I N D O N E S I A
\  (  v                   ,l ~~~MALAYSIA   f         7     t^                                         /      ij                                    s          He7*adqwf r
~~GPORE' --r.   ,  )- -Pv7s
,X t wtXv-- ' \-*- * b tov < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  t  .C HALMAHERA                                                        -      -      -     tbenIatooo Bmd
)' ,' . !1 * ~K                                   A   L  AN AN   ---', - ,|=
_7 ': 14 _} \et7r A ,8 -5   L\ : ,-:,
2! 7                1'} g 15     <   :t    /xS AZW 14
A    - - ah! \   t   P l n*ote??  v  4_t       j20        <   \ tSWESE\2I
8 10g                    )         \-      t    r       > 1<&t                                 r             <        >      ~ W           8\~
oba                                  -2                                                      t                      o-f2¢><'r/ 
' 378111@ 24 y v 27 , ~ .b .                                                 .26.. 
t?t??i??_i~~~~~tJav    Sea?                        ?      __'  '  ,u? , )KILOanEw
t i l l P   .  1 1 C     t t e l   '   A          t   1 0 0                 t # >                     1 J 0 ¢                   t S 5 s o



