Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18082
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PORJECT
(LOAN 3158-IND)
June 25, 1998
Education Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00              Rp.1,770 (July 1, 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July - June
ABBRIVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANK               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy (of the Bank)
IGSE               Directorate of General Secondary Education
GOI                Government of Indonesia
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
MGMP:              Subject Teachers Association
MOEC               Ministry of Education and Culture
QED                Operations Evaluation Division (World Bank)
PKG/SPKG           Inservice and Onservice Teacher Training Programs
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SSEMP              Second Secondary Education and Management Project
TA                 Technical Assistance
Vice President       Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director     Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager       Alan Ruby
Staff Member         Jerry Strudwick



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PREFACE                                              Table of Contents
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Introduction ....................................................i
B.  Project Objectives ...................................................                                                       ii
C.  Implementation Experience and Results ...................................................                                   iii
D.  Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ..................................... iv
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENiT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...................................................1I
B. Achievement of Objectives ....................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ....................................................4
D. Project Sustainability ....................................................7
E. Bank Performance ....................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ...................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................8
H. Future Operation ....................................................9
I. Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                                                     10
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...................................................                                            13
Table 2: Related Banlk Loans/Credits ...................................................                                       14
Table 3: Project Timetable ...................................................                                                 16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............................................. 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................                         17
Table 6: Status of Physical Targets
6.(a) Fellowship Recipients ...................................................                                     19
6.(b) Status of Training Program  ................................................... 20
6.(c) Status of Equipment Supply ...................................................                                21
6.(d) Status of Consultant Services ...................................................                             22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...................................................                                       24
Table 8.(a): Project Costs ...................................................                                                 25
Table 8.(b): Project Financing ................................................... 25
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................... 26
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................................  27
Table 11: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ................................................... 27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................                                         28
ANNEXES
Annex  1. Aide Memoire from  Last Supervision Mission ...................................................                       30
Annex 2. Borrower Contribution to ICR ................................................... 35
Annex 3.  Map of Indonesia .................................................... 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan No. 315 8-IND
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Secondary
Education and Management Project in Indonesia, for which Loan No. 31 58-IND in the amount of
US$ 154.2 million was approved on January 25, 1990 and made effective on March 29, 1990.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1997 after an eighteen-month extension. US$
138.6 million was disbursed and the last disbursement took place on June 3, 1998. It is expected
that US$ 4.4 million will be refunded to the Special Account. This together with the undisbursed
amount of US$ 12.48 million will leave a balance of US$ 16.8 million which needs to be
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Audrey Aarons (Consultant) for Jerry Strudwick, Task
Manager, Education Sector, East Asia and Pacific Region (EAP) and reviewed by William Rees,
Acting Education Sector Manager and Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Country Program Coordinator
(EAP). The peer reviewer was Alfonso de Guzman (EAP).
This report is based on material in the project file and an ICR mission begun in May,
1998 but whichI was cut slhort due to thle civil disturbances. Thie Borrower prepared a full
evaluation of the project's implementation using the Bank's ICR format. This report is available
in project files and its executive summary is attached to this ICR as Annex 2. The Borrower also
commented on the Bank's draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3158-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.        Introduction.
(i)       The Second Secondary Education and Management Project (SSMEP) was the fifteenth
project in the education sector to be financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) in the Republic of Indonesia. It was a follow-on project to the Secondary
Education and Management Project (Loan No. 2472-IND) which closed in 1990. Total project cost
for the SSEMP was US$223.4 million of which the IBRD loan financed US$154.2 million and the
Government of Indonesia financed US$69.2 million equivalent. The Project became effective
March 29, 1990 and with an 18-month extension, was closed on December 31, 1997. The amount
disbursed from the Loan was, after conversion, US$138.6 million. The last disbursement was June
3,1998. It is anticipated that US$15.6 million will be cancelled. The Project implementation period
was extended in order to (a) allow time for full implementation of activities after restructuring the
project in 1994; and to (b) allow achievement of project objectives for teacher training, materials
and science equipment, and provincial level management capacity building which would contribute
to the overall development of secondary education and management in Indonesia.
B.        Project Objectives.
(ii)      The Project supported Government policy objectives for the development of the
education sector, in particular to improve the quality of secondary education and strengthen
education management capacity. Specifically, the Project's objectives were to: (a) improve the
quality of teachers at the secondary level focusing on teaching-learning processes; and (b)
strengthen education management capacity through development of the management information
and operational systems and staff training. To assist in meeting these objectives the Loan supported
provision of teacher training, science equipment, books and materials; review and redesign of the
student assessment system; and redesign of the information and operational management systems.
These objectives have been relevant for the country's development strategy and are consistent with
the human resources development strategy articulated in the Bank's country assistance throughout
the years.
C.        Implementation Experience and Results.
(iii)     The Project made a contribution to upgrading teachers skills in science, mathematics,
English, Indonesian language and social sciences and to increasing professional competence of
training instructors and teacher-mentors. It made a significant contribution to the development of the
examination system. The provision of science equipment was not successful; it was neither
appropriate to the needs of schools nor was its procurement well-managed. The Project began, in a
limited way, to strengthen management capacities at the national and provincial levels of the



ii
secondary education system but much more is needed before significant improvements in capacity
can be expected.
(iv)      The original closing date for this six and one half-year project was June, 1996 but by
the fourth year of implementation it was considered a problem project with low disbursements of
$70.5 million (46%) of the Loan amount. Mechanisms for reporting expenditures were inadequate
and some withdrawal applications were over 3 years behind. The scale and procedures for
procurement of science equipment were unwieldy and resulted in long delays of supplies to schools.
Project management was inexperienced and not able to cope with such a large project covering all
27 provinces. To address these problems the Bank and Borrower agreed to redesign the scope of
the project and decentralize planning and implementation of project activities. The aim was to
increase the impact of project interventions by consolidating activities into provincially managed
improvement plans for a smaller number of provinces. In the five provinces selected, provincial
management teams became responsible for setting priorities, planning, implementing and
monitoring the teacher upgrading and school quality improvement activities; for identifying
equipment and materials needs, and for procurement. In the remaining provinces Government
continued to supply science equipment, conduct training and to develop examination networks.
Although the scope of the project was reduced to five of the original 27 provinces the objectives
remained the same and were, overall, satisfactorily achieved by project closing.
(v)       Bank and Borrower performance overall during preparation and implementation was
satisfactory. Although, at project design and preparation stage neither side had foreseen the level of
difficulty that would follow from nation-wide implementation and centralized management. Both
partners agreed at midterm that the scope of the project should be scaled down and greater support
given to decentralized management of implementation. This strengthened project management and
improved implementation.
(v i)      Key factors contributing to aclhieving the project results were: Government
commitment to education, reduction in the scope of the project at mid-term and greater devolution
of decision making to the provinces for implementation. Government commitment to education has
been consistently high. The implementation of the nine-year basic education law in 1994 gave high
priority to increasing access to lower secondary education and a renewed emphasis on improving
overall secondary school quality. Recognition of weaknesses in project design and the subsequent
willingness of Government and the Bank to reduce the scope of the project made project
implementation more manageable. At the same time, it was agreed to increase responsibilities at the
provincial and sub-provincial level for decisions about implementation. This also changed the
structure of decision-making regarding procurement of equipment and materials from a centrally
supply-driven approach to a greater emphasis on needs-based decision-making at the provincial
level. This contributed to increased opportunities for addressing the needs of schools in non-urban
centers
D.        Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned.
(vii)     The Government maintains a high commitment to education and to the systems of
inservice training and on-the-job professional support for teachers as long-term strategies to
improve the quality of secondary education. Whilst there is agreement that this is desirable, it
will not be possible due to the recent economic crisis to sustain these activities at the previous
levels. During implementation it was agreed that the scale and the kind of science equipment
being supplied was not appropriate. Government reduced the quantity and range of science



iii
equipment and alternative and more sustainable modalities are being developed. Government and
the Bank have recognized that increased efforts towards decentralization are needed to improve
quality and management of the system to achieve better and more cost-effective outcomes.
These strategies are being pursued further in the subsequent Bank-funded projects for junior
secondary education and for primary education.
(viii)    The Project achieved its objectives to improve the quality of secondary education by
a) institutionalizing a pattern of province and district-based inservice teacher training that
provides support to teachers in their classrooms as well as through training courses and subject
teacher associations; and b) institutionalizing a network of examination specialists throughout the
country and raising the quality of the national examinations. The Project has had limited success
in improving management capacity. Inputs to establishing an education management information
system were small and much further development will be needed if it is to provide a basis for
policy decision making at the national level; and be appropriate for planning and monitoring at
the provincial levels. Most of the project's physical targets were met for teacher training, supply
of science equipment and educational materials, fellowships and establishment of national test
item banks and provincial examination teams.
(ix)      Other operations in the education sector have built on the Project experience. In
addition, the Bank is now very familiar with the issues and agencies involved in this subsector at
the provincial level. Strategies developed in the two secondary education and management
projects and implementation experience from this project have provided the basis for design of
three province-based junior secondary education projects in Central Indonesia: (Loan 4062-TND);
Sumatra (Loan 4095-IND); East Java and East Nusa Tenggara (Loan 4042-IND) which became
effective in 1996. These focus on expanding access to junior secondary education in a cost-
effective and equitable way; improving the quality of junior secondary education; and
strengthening the education management capacity at all levels.
(x)        There are five major lessons leamed from the Second Secondary Education and
Management Project. First, Government's sustained commitment to human resource
development and to improving secondary education was crucial for the Project's achievements.
The commitment translated into formulation and implementation of policies which aimed at
increasing education quality inputs and providing access-for-all to a nine-year basic education
including the first three years of the secondary school program. It led to a more decentralized
approach to management of the secondary school system as an important strategy to improve
school quality. In addition, the commitment was reflected in adequate and timely government
funding of the Project.  Second, the project design was based on a highly centralized
management system and a top-down approach to project planning and implementation.
However, it became increasingly clear during implementation that this approach would not lead
to achievement of the objectives. Government and the Bank recognized the design flaw which
was that in large countries with very diverse conditions a uniform approach to quality
improvement is not likely to succeed. Instead, the content and modalities of teacher training
needed to be identified locally to better reflect the experiences and qualifications of teachers.
And, the provision of science equipment and teaching materials needed to be based on needs of
schools in their different contexts across the country, many of which did not have electricity. This
lesson was learnt rather late in project implementation but then actions were taken to reduce the
scope of the project and to decentralize project planning and implementation so that local
conditions would be better recognized and school quality more likely to be improved. Third, the
Project highlights the importance of capacity building within Government units at both the



iv
national and provincial levels to increase the efficiency of resource use and improve project
outcomes. Fouirth, the objective of achieving better education outcomes requires an integrated
set of interventions and building human resources and institutional capacity. This is a process
which, if it is to lead to large-scale changes in school management and teaching behavior,
requires longer than the implementation period of a typical project. In this case, the continued
support over ten years or so through the first and second phase projects combined to provide a
suitable time frame for investment in staff development and to establish a critical mass of
qualified and experienced staff for sustainable institutional development. Fifth, the outcome of
quality objectives should be increased learning. This requires baseline, benchmark and impact
indicators for measuring change over time. These need to be included in project design for
monitoring outcomes and to help identify the most cost-effective strategies for quality
improvements.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3158-ID
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.        Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.        Background. The Project was designed as a continuation of Bank support for Government's
secondary education program through the Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan no.
2472-IND). The first project covered the initial phase of a subsector program and piloted a number of
strategies to improve quality of secondary education and strengthen management. The investment in the
Second Secondary Education and Management Project (SSEMP) was to support national coverage of the
teacher upgrading, examinations and management information systems interventions that had been
piloted in the first phase project.
2.        The Project Objectives and Components. The objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR), Report No. 8115-IND, were to improve the quality and sustainability of secondary
education and improve management capacity within the secondary education subsector.
3.        To achieve the objectives the Project provided inputs to twvo components. The quality
improvement component included: (a) upgrading of teachers (including training of teacher instructors and
key teachers) in science, mathematics, Bahasa Indonesia, English, and social sciences; (b) support for
equipment for quality science instruction; (c) supply of student and teacher materials; (d) training
teachers and laboratory assistants in the use and maintenance of science equipment; and (e) establishing a
permanent and formalized examination system. The management improvement component included: (a)
assisting the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) to undertake a management information system
study; (b) assisting the MOEC to improve its data collection, processing, management and feedback to
administrative offices and schools at all levels; (c) assisting the MOEC to implement its new integrated
management training policy; (d) conducting workshops and seminars in evaluation and monitoring to
improve the management of education programs; and (e) executing related studies.
4.        Almost one half of the Loan amount (46%) financed fellowships and training for institutional
capacity building and school quality improvement and slightly more that one third of the Loan amount
(37%) financed the supply and distribution of science equipment, books and educational materials. The
remainder of the Loan financed technical assistance and studies with a small amount for civil works for
teachers' workshop centers and for science equipment warehousing. The Loan financed 69% of total
project costs and the Borrower provided the balance.
5.        Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were in line with the Bank's strategy of
assistance for human resources development in Indonesia. The education sector has been a key element
of this strategy which the Bank has articulated in its assistance strategies throughout the years and in the
most recent full CAS (16691-IND) presented to the Board July 10, 1997.



6.        The Project's objectives were consistent with the Borrower's strategy for education
development and remain relevant for the country's overall development. Within the education sector, the
issues of quality and management have been correctly identified through the Project's objectives. The
Borrower's objectives for the secondary education subsector specifically have been to increase access to
lower secondary school as part of the drive to extend the basic education cycle from six years to nine
years; to improve secondary school quality by upgrading teachers' qualifications and skills, especially for
teaching science and mathematics; and to improve management of the secondary education by devolving
greater responsibilities to the provinces.
7.        The objectives as defined in the SAR were long-term goals toward which the government
wished to move, rather than a set of specific objectives which could be immediately measured after
project implementation. The SAR defines project inputs that were expected to contribute to improvement
of secondary education quality and management of the subsector. Targets are given for the numbers of
subject teachers to be upgraded; numbers of instructors to be appointed and trained; numbers of science
kits and numbers of training centers to receive educational materials and equipment; numbers of
fellowships and training days for management staff. Processes are described for inservice and on-the-job
training for teachers; for examinations and management information systems development.
8.        Change in Project Design.  The Project as originally designed was very demanding for the
Borrower. Coverage was nation-wide and the span of control of the centralized management system was
unwieldy. A large number of activities needed to be carefully coordinated during implementation if they
were to have maximum impact. For example, the supply of appropriate science equipment and education
materials needed to be available to schools in widely dispersed parts of the country to coincide with
teacher training at local centers and on-the-job training at schools.  Feedback from  analysis of
examination results needed to inform content of inservice training and materials development on a regular
basis.
9.         Slow implementation and poor coordination of the major activities plus a tendency for all
provinces to be given the same 'package' of inputs despite differences in context led to decisions at mid-
term to change the scope of the project. At about the same time, in 1994, the Borrower increased efforts
to devolve management responsibilities to the provinces and began implementing a compulsory nine-year
basic education cycle which led to drives to increase access to the first year three years of secondary
education.
10.       In redesigning the Project the overall project objectives were not changed. However the
Bank and Govemment mutually agreed that if the Project was to contribute to improving school quality
and management and be more effective within the basic education policy framework, the focus should be
redirected to development of junior secondary education and to piloting decentralized management
approaches.   Priority was given to province-based planning, budgeting and implementation and to
consolidating all activities at the provincial level in five provinces: Yogyakarta, Central Kalimantan, West
Java, South Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara. These provinces were to determine their own priorities
for teacher training especially targeting needs of teachers in rural areas, and to select materials and
equipment and training modalities that would suit local conditions. Stronger efforts were to be made to
build management capacity at the provincial level for implementation and monitoring.
B.        Achievement of Project Objectives
11.       The Project's objectives to improve secondary education quality and management were broadly
stated as long term goals and, as was common in many projects of the time, the SAR did not define
performance indicators by which to measure project impact or outcomes. Nor did it provide benchmarks to
indicate the extent to which this project would contribute towards the long term goals. The assessment here



- 3 -
of project achievements is based first on achievement as measured by inputs and physical targets as
specified in the SAR and then some comments are added on progress towards achievement of the long term
objectives. Tables 6 (a) to (d) provide details on the status of physical targets for each of the Project's
inputs.
Achievement of Physical Targets as set out in the SAR:
12.       (a) Quality improvement.   The physical targets were substantially achieved for fellowships
for instructors; teachers' inservice training and on-site school mentoring; supply of science equipment and
student and teacher materials; and development and administration of test items for the examination system.
The Project was able to make a major contribution to the quality of secondary education by developing
and institutionalizing an inservice teacher training system that combined training sessions with follow-up
supervised support in classrooms and regular meetings of subject teachers; supply of locally produced
materials to support teaching and learning; and, finally by the end of the project, improving the selection
of science equipment by basing it on teacher -identified needs.
13.       The Project has made a significant contribution to raising the technical standard of the
examination system and Indonesia now has a well developed capacity for an effective examination
system at the national and the provincial levels. An outcome of the continued investment in staff
development through both this and the first project is that the national examination center now has seven
staff in total having higher degrees in their specialist area and each province has at least two resource
persons having post graduate qualifications in testing and measurement. This capacity includes expertise
in analyzing test results to provide diagnostic feedback to the education system to improve teaching and
learning. It is worth noting however that the capacity developed under the project is in a particularly
narrow specialization. Future development will need to be in more diverse aspects of student assessment
to match the demands for more classroom-based student assessment.
14.       (b) Management improvement. Targets were marginally achieved. The major project inputs
were to assist in developing the education management information system (EMIS) and conducting studies.
The training for an integrated management approach as proposed in the SAR was canceled at the time of the
restructuring. This was partly because the proposed action plan was not satisfactory but also because it
became clear that a bottom-up approach would be more effective. Training needs were later identified that
related directly to the tasks to be carried out by provincial and district managers for project implementation.
15.       The Project helped to establish management information systems in the education units at the
national level and in the provinces. Physical targets set out in the SAR for fellowships and training relating
to the development of the EMIS were achieved. However, the premise underlying the design of this
project component was based on a highly centralized form of decision-making. This poses a huge task of
assembling data from all 27 provinces for all aspects of secondary education. Efforts in the proejct
represent only a modest beginning to building management systems and capacity in the secondary
education subsector. A system that recognizes a more decentralized decision-making process and a much
larger effort is needed before significant results can be expected. The Project intervention was quite
modest and did not create enough momentum to encourage MOEC to further develop the education
management information system as a broad management tool for policy decisions and planning. Partly as
a result of this, the major line agencies across the MOEC continue to construct their own statistics and
planning information.
Achievements towards objectives to improve quality and management.
16.       (a) The SAR did not define impact or outcome indicators by which to monitor change in school
quality or school management. There was an implicit assumption that teaching and learning would improve



-4 -
as a result of the Project's inputs but no performance indicators to measure these. There was considerable
development of the examination system as a result of the project but comparative data were not available
over a sufficient time-period to measure project impact. Even so, examination results alone would not have
been the most appropriate measure of changes in classroom interactions and student leaming. These
shortcomings were recognized and a study was undertaken at the end of the project to assess the benefits of
the Project input. The indicators were based on the curriculum content and drew on the student-centered and
active- learning methods being promoted through the training and supervision. The results were not as good
as were expected given the large amount of training and supervision and the quantity of materials and
equipment that had been provided. Even where the science equipment was appropriate, -kw teachers were
using equipment in their teaching and only occasionally presented demonstrations of experiments or
asked higher order questions of the students. Teachers were not well able to identify gaps in students'
mathematical learning nor able to plan teaching based on students leaming problems. These findings led
to changes in the content of the teacher training, selection of equipment and materials and fed into the
design of the follow-on junior secondary education projects.
17.       (b)  Changes during implementation gave greater emphasis to provincial and district
management of the project. Management capacity in the five provinces improved slowly as a result of
training focused on their needs and experience gained through the increased responsibilities and
accountability for implementation. This was especially notable in two of the provinces which became part of
the follow-on Junior Secondary Education Projects. The impact of the fellowships and training programs is
now beginning to benefit the system as a critical mass of well qualified and experienced education officers is
established in the provinces.
18.        As a project focused on education, the SSEMP has contributed to greater decentralization of
secondary education management in Indonesia. The restructured project piloted provincial planning,
budgeting and implementation monitoring and the Junior Secondary Education Projects developed
decentralization further by extending planning and implementing responsibilities to the district level. As
a result new roles and relationslhips are bein, established for national, provincial and district education
teams and accountability for school quality has extended more directly to provincial and districts units
and to schools.
19.       Overall, the Project satisfactorily achieved its targets as specified in the SAR for improving the
quality of secondary education but only partially achieved its targets to strengthen management of secondary
education.  The sustainability of the quality improvements is uncertain given the severe economic
constraints that exist now and are expected to continue for some time. In that context, even greater efforts
will be needed in future to continue to strengthen management capacity at both the national and provincial
levels.
C.         Major Factors Affecting the Project
20.       (a) The Project design over-estimated the institutional capacity of the MOEC to implement it
effectively. The national scale was ambitious, the scope was broad with activities covering three different
line agencies within the MOEC centrally and provincially and reaching school level and the span of
control for the centralized project management units had to cover all agencies, all provinces, all activities.
21.        Although the Project was technically well prepared for the quality components (the inservice
teacher training and the examinations development systems) it was less well prepared with regard to
selection of inputs for the management component and in setting up the institutional and organizational
requirements for effective implementation. The lack of institutional capacity in MOEC was identified
during preparation but was not adequately reflected in the institutional arrangements for project
management. Procedures and mechanisms for financial accounting, reporting and auditing at the national



-5-
and provincial level were not well articulated. A more detailed institutional analysis of administrative
procedures and control mechanisms might have indicated areas where additional support was needed for
effective project management. Financial management and program coordination was weak and
substantially contributed to slow implementation and low disbursements especially in the first four years.
22.        The highly centralized planning and budgeting reinforced top-down approaches to
implementation. This led to uniformity in program delivery and cumbersome management procedures
with limited participation of provincial and district education teams. It contributed to the lack of
effectiveness in some training and school support programs and to slow implementation. Judged by the
standards of the time centralized national projects were not unusual in large countries. Yet within the next
few years the Bank was supporting education projects at the sub-national levels in other large countries,
for example, in Brazil, China and India.  And, by mid-term, the Project was redesigned along
decentralized lines in preparation for the follow-on Junior Secondary Education Projects.
23.        The Project was redesigned in 1994. This provided that detailed implementation plans would
be developed and executed by the provincial education offices. Management capacity would be developed
through this process and implementation more effective. Inservice teacher training programs would be
redesigned to meet the specific circumstances of the respective provinces, especially to reach teachers in the
rural areas who had been left out of previous programs; the school examinations system would be
strengthened in the provinces, and provinces would be able to draw up examinations questions by selecting
from national test item banks developed under the project. And, as a result of greater involved in planning
and implementing project activities, capacity building would be strengthened in the provinces.
24.        However, capacities at the provincial and district to carry out these tasks had to be built up and
planning and implementation continued to be very slow in most of the provinces. Two of the provinces -
Central Kalimantan and Yogyakarta - gained additional experience by being included in the follow-on
Junior Secondary Education Project. Through this they developed a bottom-up project preparation process
and developed better management capacities and greater understanding of Bank's procedures for
procurement and accounting. As a result they also fared better in implementation.
25.       The Project made high demands on Bank staff time for supervision at a time of structural
change in the Bank and reduced resources. Inevitably over a seven year project implementation span
there were changes in Bank staff and until greater decentralization to the field offices communication flows
especially on procurement issues was often slow. For a large and complex project like this the Bank and
the Borrower would have benefited from systematic third party supervision by teams (a) to carry out
financial and physical audits and (b) to carry out technical audits and monitoring of quality inputs and
outcomes.
26.        Government commitment to secondary education and implementation of policies for a
compulsory nine-year basic education contributed to redesigning the project.  There was also
commitment to raising the quality of teaching and leaming throughout the system. This was done with
Bank support through projects in primary and secondary education as well as preservice and inservice
teacher education which continued the dialogue on the most effective means to improve school quality.
This led to alternative strategies introduced in the Project to reach teachers in the rural areas.
Government is extending, also with Bank support, a decentralized approach to management of secondary
education through the junior secondary and the basic education projects.
27.        Government's budget accounting and reporting procedures came under scrutiny during
supervision as a result of a project officer being prosecuted and convicted on charges of misappropriation
of provincial funds. Because annual programs and budgets were prepared centrally and within rigidly
defined categories there was often a mismatch between activities in provincial plans and the resources to



-6-
carry them out. In some cases, provinces may have received more money than they needed, budgetary
allocations were not always in line with provinces priorities and controls over execution of contracts were
sometimes absent because contracting was done in Jakarta without much involvement of the provincial
education managers. This led to creative alignment of expenditures to meet local needs or to use excess
funds to fund activities which provinces considered priorities but for which there was no budget. In both
cases these practices would not be subject to the usual auditing controls In order to create greater
transparency in the way projects are managed Government agreed with the Bank on a number of steps to
be taken: (a) in future projects initial budget submissions would be prepared at the district and provincial
levels to ensure that allocations are made in line with needs; (b) Ministry of Finance controls should be
systematically included in the financial management of each project; (c) the Inspector-General of MOEC
should be a key partner during Bank and Borrower loan processing and supervision; and (d) the planning
and monitoring role of the MOEC in Jakarta should be further developed to include performance and
technical audits.
28.       The Bank also expressed serious concern that the Borrower did not inform the Bank of the
incident until the official in question had been prosecuted and convicted. Government was reminded that
this was inconsistent with Section 9.01 Cooperation and Information of the General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of January 1, 1985, and Sections 3.01 and 4.01 of the
Loan Agreement of the Project.
29.        c) Implementation capacity. The pace of implementation was very slow due mainly to the large
national scope, a highly centralized and complex project management with frequent change of project staff.
There were four project directors over the seven-year period and frequent changes of other unit staff,
most of whom were in their positions for less than two years. This did not help to build the necessary
body of expertise in managing complex procurement and accounting procedures or in monitoring a large
number of activities across multiple line agencies and provinces throughout the archipelago .
30.        Procuremenit and supply of science equipment and the equipment training performance
(including the technical assistance) was highly inefficient until the Banks' intervention but even so
remained a problem throughout the Project. The procurement was done through ICB in three stages over
the life of the project and the distribution to schools was done from central warehousing in Jakarta. This
was complex to manage and left implementation units susceptible to pressure from vested interest groups.
As a result there was some serious mishandling of the ICB process by the Borrower and continued delays
in procurement throughout the Project. The Bank's own supervision at the early stage was ineffective in
directing the procurement on a correct path. As the supply of science equipment represented a large
portion of the total Loan amount it meant that by the fourth year of implementation only about half the
Loan had been disbursed.
31.       As the equipment procured through ICB was delivered to Jakarta it required warehousing
and separate contracting for distribution to schools in the 27 provinces. This led to long delays and
opportunity for additional damage and leakage en route. The selection of equipment was made on the
basis of a single supply of a standard set to all schools. But there were problems in supplying
replacements for items used or damaged. Data management was inadequate at the center which in turn
led to long delays in providing replacements. And often schools would not receive the items requested
but received the full standard set again. To address these issues the system was changed and schools
could request the replacements they needed.  This led to budgeting, ordering, procurement and
distribution problems for the provinces who were now responsible for this.
32.       The extended period of implementation from six to seven and one half years is partly explained
by delays during the first three years of project implementation and the time required for the transition to a
more decentralized approach in the restructured project. The five provincial offices and the Directorate of



- 7 -
Secondary Education and the National Planning Office had to make significant institutional adjustments to
permit de-centralization in the preparation of investment and implementation plans. This created some
difficulty initially for preparation of the annual budgetary allocations as staff in the project provinces were
inexperienced in preparing and justifying their project budgets. Budget requests in the first year of the
restructuring were not ready for inclusion in the national budget allocations and delays were compounded by
the very late release of the budget for the following fiscal year. This prevented provinces from appointing
project teams and deprived them of operational funds for preparing bidding documents. These periods also
coincided with the introduction of new standard Bank procurement documents with which the project
provinces and MOEC were unfamiliar.
33.        When the scope of the project was scaled down from implementation in all 27 provinces to
five pilot provinces, approaches to procurement of science equipment were changed to ensure that the
teachers' choice of equipment and school needs could be met more easily; the procurement planning was
adjusted to be more appropriate to decentralized requirements; and some components were canceled. At
the same time, the in-service and on-service training model was modified to widen its reach to teachers in
the more rural and remote areas and more choice was given to provincial teams to identify there own
training priorities.
D.         Sustainability
34.        Government commitment to education and to secondary education specifically is high. In
the current five-year plan period (Repelita VI 1994/99), the Government set the important goal of
extending access to high quality junior secondary education. This objective is integral to the goal of
attaining universal coverage of nine years of basic education by the end of Repelita VIII (2008/9). To
support this ambitious goal, the Government has adopted several policy measures and strategies to
increase public expenditures on junior secondary education in both private and public schools; to reduce
private costs of schooling at the junior secondary school level; to increase quality inputs (free textbooks
and teacher qualification and training); and to target school construction to the needs of remote areas and
scholarships to students from poor families. In support of Government's programs the Bank is financing
three ongoing junior secondary education projects and three additional basic education projects (covering
grades I to 9) are under preparation. All six of these projects are province based and will continue to
support quality improvement and management capacity.
35.       Institutional sustainability is likely to be maintained and will be further developed through
support of the ongoing and future education projects. The investment in human resources over the past
ten years has contributed to a well qualified and experienced staff at the examination center and amongst
secondary teachers who provide inservice and school based teacher training. The model of inservice
teacher training is continuing and under the follow-on projects is being modified to suit different school
contexts especially of junior secondary schools. Management capacity building is continuing with
greater focus on systems and staff development at the provincial and district levels.
36.        Financial sustainability of current levels of expenditure on education and on basic education
are extremely uncertain at this time. Indonesia's economic crisis is predicted to lead to a negative GDP
growth rate of between zero and 10 percent in the next financial year. The crisis is likely to affect basic
education in a variety of ways, including the effects on students and their families, on schools and their
ability to provide adequate resources for quality education, and on the overall budget available for
education.
37.        Severe constraints on budgets for education activities could undermine the achievements of
the past ten years or more in secondary education. The teacher upgrading program has achieved
considerable results but needs to be continued. The costs and benefits of different forms of teacher



- 8 -
inservice training will need to be reexamined in the framework of impact on improved teaching practice
and student learning. The examinations center receives a relatively low budget but may have to compete
for resources to maintain its current level of staffing and to continue to support the range of activities it
currently undertakes. The supply of science equipment has been costly and recurrent expenditures for
schools to maintain its supplies will also have to be reconsidered within the overall budget priorities and
sources of financing at the school level. The Bank continues to work with the Government in reviewing
priorities, expenditures and financing.
E.        Bank Performance
38.       Bank performance in project preparation and supervision was satisfactory. The level of
expertise and knowledge of the Indonesian education system provided by the Bank and its technical
support teams was of a high standard and well respected by the Borrower. However, it was not until the
fourth year of implementation that the basic design and implementation problems were addressed.
39.       Constructive working relationships were maintained with the Borrower and during
implementation sufficient to be able to mutually agree to a restructuring of the project in order to achieve
objectives.  With a shift to increased resources at the field office there were improvements in
communication with the Borrower. This provided greater opportunity to provide much needed technical
support to the Borrower in procurement, disbursement and accounting procedures which had been poorly
understood by the Borrower in the earlier years of implementation and had contributed to delays in
approving procurement documentation and in reporting expenditures.
F.        Borrower Performance
40.       Borrower performance overall during preparation and implementation was satisfactory. The
project management and implementation structure set in place originally was very demanding with
information flows from units in 27 provinces and planning and budgeting decsisions being made from the
center. MOEC recognized that this was not effective and was prepared to find workable solutions to
complex and difficult management issues. This resulted in the innovative approach (for secondary
education) of provincially coordinated management of the project being piloted under the project and
developed further in other projects. Lack of experience in Bank business procedures gave rise to several
procurement and accounting problems during implementation. These were addressed by the Borrower
although not always in full consultation with the Bank at an early stage.
41.       There were four project directors over the seven-year implementation period and frequent
changes of other unit staff, most of whom were in their positions for less than two years. This did not
help to build the necessary body of expertise in managing complex procurement and accounting
procedures. A large portion of the Loan was to finance procurement and distribution of science
equipment to schools nationally which involved large ICB procurement in three stages. This was
complex to manage and was also susceptible to pressure from interest groups with the result that there
were occasions when awarding of contracts was mishandled. Poor performance of some contractors also
contributed to delays in procurement. Accounting and reporting mechanisms in the provinces were
inadequate and in one case led to legal action being taken by the Borrower to recover unreported
expenditures. These issues are being addressed through follow-on projects through greater participation
of provincial teams in planning and budgeting with accountability and greater transparency being built
into the accounting and reporting process.
G.        Assessment of Outcome



-9 -
42.        The Project's overall outcome is satisfactory but is deficient in the management of
procurement. The restructuring at mid-term enabled the Project to satisfactorily contribute to improving
quality and management of secondary education. This assessment is based on achievement of physical
targets for fellowships, training, supply of equipment and materials and examinations. A low-cost model
for teacher upgrading and professional support has been developed and adapted to suit a variety of
contexts, teachers' pedagogical skills have been developed and there is a critical mass of well qualified
trainers and examinations officers at national and provincial levels to provide a strong institutional base
for sustainable development of the system. Management teams have gained experienced in planning and
monitoring implementation of education programs and meeting Bank standards for procurement and
accounting.
43.        To quote a senior education official 'we have all learned a great deal from this project'. The
strength of institutions (Bank and Borrower) lies in the ability to learn from experience. In this project, it
has translated into better design for the follow-on junior secondary education projects in eleven
provinces. These have had greater Borrower participation and provincial ownership in the preparation
process and are grounded in more detailed institutional and economic analysis.
H.         Future Operations
44.        The Bank's CAS continues to highlight the importance of continued emphasis on human
resource development to promote economic growth, competitiveness, and structural transformation, and
on a more selective, efficient use of public resources. As a reflection of Government's and the Bank's
continued commitment to secondary education in Indonesia, the Bank is currently financing three
province-based projects to support junior secondary education and preparing three additional province-
based projects to support basic education (grades 1 to 9).
45.        The Bank has engaged in a comprehensive dialogue with MOEC that reaches far beyond
these projects, since it has hielped (a) establish a solid conceptual and economic framework for expanding
and improving the quality of the basic education Indonesia over the next 20 years; (b) identify the
comparative advantages for Bank's and other donors' role in the planned expansion and quality
improvement process; (c) strengthen the decentralizing trends toward sub-central levels, province-
specific projects, and local ownership; and (d) institutional reform through greater decentralization. As a
result of this dialogue, the previous highly centralized, uniform approach to project design and
implementation has been replaced by an approach that will rest on provincial based projects. The
Government has now recognized the need to take into account specific provincial situations, including
economic growth trends and prospects, the existing education needs, labor market conditions, private
sector delivery capacity, levels of poverty, and geographic conditions. The Bank has also been an active
partner in the discussions on the priorities governing basic education delivery, on the role of the private
sector in secondary education and on the share of Government's spending that should be allocated to
basic education.
46.       In the light of the very constrained economic environment currently in Indonesia the Bank
and Borrower are reviewing how best to continue to support human resource development and secondary
education in particular especially for students in the poorer and rural areas of the country. Priorities for
the short term in basic education will be
- maintaining enrollment and transition rates in primary and junior secondary through
scholarships for poor children; block grants to primary schools in poor communities;
matching grants to private junior secondary schools in poor communities;



- 10-
- increasing local government efficiency through consolidating excess primary schools and
redeploying staff;
- preventing deterioration of quality through grants to public/private schools for maintenance
and rehabilitation; supplying textbooks and materials to children; limited in-service teacher
training and maintaining advances in decentralized service delivery.
1.        Lessons Learned
47.       The SAR identifies a number of lessons learned from previous projects in the education
sector. Several of these refer to institutional arrangements and management capacity such as (a) the need
to limit the number of PIUs and build institutional capacity; (b) to give special attention to administrative
procedures, communication and coordination among implementing agencies and levels of government;
and (c) respond better to training, materials and management needs by having more quality inputs
controlled regionally rather than centrally.
48.        In 1991, OED carried out a review of 25 years of Bank lending in education in Indonesia
which included reference to this project. OED's lessons identified the importance of human resources
development through training, the need for institution capacity building and for the Bank to maintain a
policy dialogue with the Borrower, appropriate sequencing in lending operations and periodic course
corrections during implementation, the danger of spreading inputs too widely and thereby diluting impact,
the need to keep projects simple and to a realistic time schedule, and the need to support the private
system especially at secondary where the poorest students are highly represented.
49.       Both the original and redesigned SSEMP tried to build on the lessons stated in the SAR and
adaptations made during implementation reflect some of the lessons identified by OED. Others such as
support for the private sector were incorporated into the follow-on projects. Despite these the Project was
still struggling with some of the other issues until project completion such as institution capacity building,
efficient administrative procedures for planning and budgeting, accounting and procurement, and better
responses to local needs for quality inputs.
50.       The supply and maintenance of science equipment consumed significant amounts of Loan
funds, project time and management expertise. It highlights the need to reexamine the fundamental
educational issues of appropriate science curricula for junior secondary education and for upper
secondary education. These require different teacher training and different laboratory and equipment
needs and the follow-on projects have recognized this and have limited the supply of science equipment
until there is a demonstrated need.
51.       The major lessons learned from the Second Secondary Education and Management Project
are:
First, Government's sustained commitment to human resource development and to
improving secondary education was crucial for the Project's achievements. The commitment translated
into formulation and implementation of policies which aimed at increasing education quality inputs and
providing access-for-all to a nine-year basic education including the first three years of the secondary
school program. It led to a more decentralized approach to management of the secondary school system
as a strategy to improve quality. In addition, the commitment was reflected in adequate and timely
government funding of the Project.



Second, the project design was based on a highly centralized management system and a top-
down approach to planning and implementation that made achievement of objectives unlikely.
Government and the Bank recognized project design flaws such that in large countries with very diverse
conditions a one-size-fits-all approach to quality improvement is not likely to be successful. Actions were
taken during implementation to scale down the scope of the project and to decentralize project planning
and implementation so that locally identified needs could be better met.
Tlhird, the Project highlights the importance of capacity building within Government units at
both the national and provincial levels to increase the efficiency of resource use and improve project
outcomes. The project experience shows, as other projects have shown, the need for continuity in staff
for key positions and to adequately prepare project staff to deal with Bank business procedures.
Fourth, the objective of achieving better education outcomes requires an integrated set of
interventions and the build-up of a critical mass with expertise in a supportive professional environment.
This is a process which, if it is to lead to large-scale changes in school management and teaching
behavior, requires longer than the implementation period of a typical project. In this case, the continued
support over ten years or so first through first and second phase projects provided a suitable time frame
for human resource and institutional development.
Fifth, the outcome of quality objectives should be better teacher performance and increased
student learning. This requires baseline, benchmark and impact indicators for measuring change over
time. These need to be included in project design for monitoring outcomes and to help identify the most
cost-effective strategies for quality improvements.



- 12 -
Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Status of Physical Targets
6.(a) Fellowship Recipients
6.(b) Status of Training Program
6.(c) Status of Equipment Supply
6.(d) Status of Consultant Services
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8.(a): Project Costs
Table 8.(b): Project Financing
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table I 1:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Missions



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not applicable
(7)           (/)           (.)              (1)
Macro Policies                  O              O                             03
Sector Policies                 03             O              0
Financial Objectives            O              0l             O               E
Institutional Development       E              [EE 0                          0
Physical Objectives             0x             E              0 El
Poverty Reduction               E              E              0               0l
Gender Issues                   E              E l                            [03
Other Social Objectives         O              E              E               03
Environmental Objectives        E              O              E               Cl
Public Sector Management        E              03             0 El3
Private Sector Development      E              E              0 E0
Other (specify)                 E              E              E               E
B. Project Sustainability          Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
(1)                   (V)                     (')
E                      0 E0
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory      Satisfactory             Deficient
(1)                   (e)                    C')
Identification                  E                     0                       E
Preparation Assistance          El                    0                       E
Appraisal                       E                      E                      0
Supervision                     E                     0l                      0
Higly
D. Borrower Performance                  satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
(')           (e)           (e)
Preparation                              E             0             E 0
Implementation                           E             01            0
Covenant Compliance                      E             E             0m
Operation (if applicable)                E             0EE 0
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactory  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
C')          '()             (C)             C')
Achievement Objectives              El            0              0                0
Procurement Management              E             El             0l               E



-14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                Purpose                                    Year of               Status
approval
Preceding operations:
Secondary Education and       To improve quality and management of secondary                   closed satisfactorily
Management Project            education through teacher upgrading, examination  1985
reform and management capacity building.
Primary Education Quality     To introduce policies and mechanisms to improve  1992
Improvement Project           primary education quality aimed at raising student
achievement and completion rates.
Primary School Teacher        To enhance the training of primary school teachers  1992
Development Project           through a new tertiary level teacher diploma course.
To improve the quality of basic education by
Book and Reading              addressing critical factors affecting both the supply  1995      Under implementation
Development                   of, and demand for, textbooks.
To enhance teaching-learning processes in secondary
l Secondary Teacher Education    schools through the improvement of teacher   1996             Under implementation
Project                       education in 31 teacher training institutes.
Followving operations
I. East Java and East Nusa   To expand access to junior secondary education in a  1996        Under Implementation
Tenggara Junior Secondary     cost effective and equitable way, improve the quality
Education Project             ofjunior and senior secondary education and
(Loan 4042-IND) US$99         strengthen the management of the education system
million                       at all levels in the Provinces of East Java and West
Nusa Tenggara.
2. Central Indonesia Junior   To expand access to junior secondary education in a  1996        Under Implementation
Secondary Education Project   cost effective and equitable way, improve the quality
(Loan 4062-IND)               of junior and senior secondary education and
USS 109 million               strengthen the management of the education system
at all levels in the Province of Central Java, DI.
Yogyakarta, West Kalimantan, and Central
Kalimantan.
3. Sumatra I Junior Secondary    To expand access to junior secondary education in a  1996     Under Implementation
Education Project (Loan 4095-   cost-effective and equitable way, improve the quality
IND)                          of junior and senior secondary education and
US$98 million                 strengthen the management of the education system
at all levels in the Provinces of Aceh, Wes. Sumatra,
Jambi South Sumatra, and Lampung
4. West Java Basic Education    To expand access to junior secondary education in a    1998    Not yet effective
Project (Loan 4308-lND)       cost-effective and equitable way, improve the quality
US$ 103.5 million             of primary and junior secondary education and
strengthen the management of the education system
at all levels in the Provinces of West Java.



15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned             Date ActualV
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         1/23/87              1/30/87
Preparation                                        February, 1989       2/15/89
Appraisal                                          June, 1989           6/15/89
Negotiations                                       November, 1989       12/11/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)       N/A                  N/A
Board Presentation                                 January, 1990        1/25/90
Signing                                           February, 1990        2/12/90
Effectiveness                                      March, 1990          3/29/90
First Trance Release (if applicable)               N/A                  N/A
Midterm review (if applicable)                     January, 1994         1/10/94
Second (and Third) Trance Release (if applicable)  N/A                  N/A
Project Completion                                 6/30/95              6/30/97
Loan Closing                                       6/30/96              12/31/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90    FY91      FY92   FY93    FY94   FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal Estimate       6.2      15.6    32.4     69.1   100.0   130.1   154.2   (154.2)  (154.2)
Actual                  12.0      18.3    31.2     42.3    70.5   103.4   120.7    138.3   138.6
Actual as % of Estimate  193.5    117.3    96.3    61.2    70.5    79.5    78.3       89.7    90.8
Date of Final Disbursement: June 3, 1998
After refund of Special Account Balance, Cancellation of 15.6 million is anticipated
Note:
* Project closing extended to December, 1997



-16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
SAR                               ACTUAL
A IMPROVEMENT OF SECOND
EDUCATION QUALITY
I    Teacher up-grading through inservice  Improvement of secondary  teacher  Secondary school teachers were trained
onservice training                        quality  with  special emphasis  on  through inservice training and on-the -job.
teaching-learning  processes  in  five  Teaching skills improved in 4 subjects.
subject areas.
2. Developing an Environmental Program    An environmental teaching program   This program was canceled. Environmental
integrated into the existing science,  topics already being included in curriculum.
social   studies   and   geography
curriculum.
Science equipment procured and distributed
3. Improving the Quality of Science       Improvement of the quality of science  to schools. Science teachers trained in use of
Education                             education.                           equipment and its maintenance..
Teachers and education administrators
trained  in  examination.  Examination
4. Strengthening of Examination System    Development of an institutionalized   network formed and examination teams
national examination system  and a  established in 27 provinces. Teams prepared
national network  in 27  provinces;  and conducted tests, carried out analysis of
strengthening the capacity of teachers in  exam results and developed a national item
examination development.            bank.  A calibrated item  bank used in
national exams.
B. STRENGTHENING EDUCATION
MANAGEMENT                                                                 A master plan for MIS was developed and
first phase installation carried out.
1. MOEC Management Information            Development   of   an   integrated
System                                management information  system  to
support planning and decision making
functions in the MOEC.
Training on data processing system
conducted.  Data collection and analysis
2.   Operational System for Department of  Development of a data processing  carried out..
General Secondary Education               system for the Department of General
a. Operating Systems Program           Secondary Education operations.     Computers  distributed  to  five  district
education  offices and    skills training
b. District Education Pilot Program    Strengthen District Education Office in  conducted in their use. Staff able to operate
computer based data collection and  computers for data collection.
analysis.
This program was canceled. Action plan not
appropriate for a large complex operations.
3. Management Training Program            Improved  capability  of  staff  in  Simplified and piloted in 5 provinces.
implementing     an      integrated
management system.



- 17-
C.       STUDIES    AND    PROJECT                                             Three  policy  studies, 29  studies  on
PREPARATION                                                                    evaluation and studies for future project, and
14 studies on examinations were conducted.
1.    Department of General Secondary  Conduct three  policy  studies  for  The results were disseminated and some
Education  and  Examination  Development  education  and   development  and  contributed  to  program  implementation
Center (Units I and ll)                   preparation of future projects.      improvement and supported policy and
design of future projects.
Three studies on integrated management
were conducted.
2. Secretariat-General  of Department of  Conduct ten studies.
Education and Culture (Unit 111)



- 18 -
TABLE 6(a): SUMNliMARY STATUS OF FELLOWVSHIP PROGRAiNI BY RECIPIENTS
SAR TARGET                                ACTUAL
IMIPLE-
PROGRAM                    MIENTING
AGENCY                          DIP-      NON                         DIP-      NON
Ph.D      MA       LOMIA   DEGREE   Ph.D          MA    LONIA   DEGREE
I IMPROVING QUALITY
A Teacher Up-Grading Through PKG
I. Overseas Fellowships                     DSE
a. Intemational training for principals                                 .        54   p    .       .        .          48   p
b. International training for instructors                                       3 .  .  368   p    .  .    .          403   p
c. Inter. training for supervisors                 .         .          .       Ill   p    .       .       .           98   p
d. Diploma and MA for Instructor
I) Dip. Program                                .         .         72  p i                     .        50 p
2) MA program                                         130  p)       .          .        .      130 p   -
SubTotal                                       .      130  p7    72  p    533   p             130  p  50  p       549   p
2. National Fellowship                     DSE
a. TrainingofGurulntilAss.Guruinti                                            5.760   p                             5.103   p
b. In country training for new Instruc.                                         150   p            .       .          110   p
c. Nat. workshops for instrucisup.                 .         .          .       750   p    .       .       .         714   p
d. Provincial training for principals                                         4.500   p                             4,485   p
|   Sub Total                                      _                          t 1.160   p                          10,412   p
B Strengthening The Exam. System
I . Overseas Fellowships                   EDC
a. MA program                                      .       14   p       .                            8 p
b. Ph.D program                                     5                             -        4
c. Short-courses (non degree)                      .         .          .       166   p    -       -       .          63   p
2. National Fellowship                     PEO/
a. S2 Program                           EDC        .      64   p        .         .         .      77 p
b. S3 Program                                        3       .          .         .         .      .
c. - Short courses for Central Office              .         .          .          5  p    -       .                    5   p
- Short courses for Kanwil staff               .         .          .         54  p    .                            54   p
-Courses on Specific Topics                    .         .                   200  p                                200   p
|   Sub Total                                        8     78.  p               425   p       4    85  p              322   p
11 STRENGTHENIG ED. MANAG.
A DPDOS                                       DSE
1. Overseas Fellowships
a. Diploma                                                            15  p       -                         10 p
b. NMA Program                                     .         .          -         .         .      .       .
c. Group training study grants                                          -            pm     -              -            5 pm
| Sub Total                                                              15 p      25  pm                     10  p       5  pm
2. National Fellowships
DOS sub-contract training
a. Programer                                       .         .                    4   p    .       .        .          4   p
b. System Analysis                                                               25   p            .                  25   p
Sub Total                                         _                              29   p                               29   p
B MOEC Manag. Information System              Ci
I . Overseas Fellowships
a. Master degree                                                                  .                  .
b. Doctor Program                                                         I       .                          -
c. Seminar and workshops                                                                             .
2. National Fellowships                                                   _
Sub Total                                      ;    I                                        t
C Management Training Program
I. Overseas Fellowships                  SGMOEC
a. Master degree                                           12   p                 .                 12 p
b. Doctor Program                                    3                            -           3      -
c. Short-terrn Program                                                          230  p                                230  p
Sub Total                                           3      12   p               230   p      3     12  p   ;         230   p
2. National Fellowships
a. Language training                 SGMOEC                                     100 p
b. Special visits                                                                15 p
SubTotal                                                     -                  115 p
TOTAL                                 12    220   p      87  p 12.517   p       8   227  p  60  p  11,547   p



- 19 -
TABLE 6.(b) SUMMARY STATUS OF TRAINING PROGRANI
STATUS AT PROJECT
COMPLETION
NO.                                   PROGRAM                                SAR
TARGET   NO. OF         NO. OF TRAINEES
TRAINEES         COMPARED
WITH SAR
1.  IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY EDUCATION QUALITY
A.    Teacher Up-grading Through PKG Training
1. Sanggar-based PKGTraining                                        189120      145800           77%
(Science, Mathematics., English, Indonesian, and IPS/Geography)
- MGMP Program (Science, Math, English)
2. Traditional Provincial PKG Training for Candidate of Guru Inti     10110       6480           64%
in Bahasa Indonesia and IPS Geography
B.    Improvement of The Quality of Science Education
I. Testing and Quality Control                                      Various           -
2. Regional Science Equipment Management and Maintenance Training        80         72           90%
C.    Strengthening The Examination System
Examination Training at the Provincial level for SMP and SMA teachers  2200       4764          217%
11.    STRENGTHENING EDUCATION MANAGEMENT
A.    Dikmenum Operation System (A.l: DPDOS)
1. Work-shops                                                       Various
a Program System                                                 Various         168
b SAS                                                            Various         115
c System Administration SAS                                      Various
2. Provincial Operator Training                                                    2700
B.    Management Training Program
Training for central and local staff:
i. Coretrainers(TrainerofTrainers)                                     270         2S8           96%
2 Trainees (participants) *)                                           6s47        275            4eO
Note:    Program was cancelled and training was discontinued.



- 20 -
TABLE 6.(c). SUMMVIARY OF EQUIPMENT STATUS
ACTUAL
NO.             TYPE OF EQUIPMENT                          SAR
TARGET              NO. OF                NO. OF
EQUIPMENT             RECIPIENT
_.    IMPROVEMENT OF SECONDARY
EDUCATION QUALITY
A.    Teacher Up-Grading Through PKG Training
I. Equipment and Materials for Sanggar PKG         240  units         263  units        263  sanggar
2. Printed Materials (PKG Bulletine, Books,    200,000   copies    144,700   copies   12,100   schools
Curriculum, Materials)
B.    Development of An Environmental Program
2. Printed Materials                                 I   set          Canceled              Canceled
C.    Improvement of The Quality of Science Ed.
*1. Equipment for Decentralized Warehouse            3   units            -
2. Printed Materials:
- Equipment Processing (Preparation of ICB)     20  docs             8  docs.          I  DSE
- Compilation of SSR                           135  sets            54  sets           I  DSE
- Guidance books                            25,000   copies    30,765   copies   30,765   PEO, school
- Reference books for five provinces     5,741,400   copies  5,741,400   copies    2,380   schools
3. Science Equipment:
a. Drop system
I) Kits for SMP                           4,540   kits        5,228   kits      1,307   schools
2) Kits for SMA                            1.080   kits       3,060   kits        765   schools
b. SSR
I) Regular and modular for SMP            9.830   units       2,003   units     2.003   schools
2) Regular and modular for SMA             1,610   units        376   units       376   schools
c. Distribution
I) for SMP                                12,370   units      4,971   units     6.311   schools
2) for SMA                                 2.690   units       1,487   units    2.460   schools
d. Science equipment for five provinces         80   pack.          60   pack.    2.380   schools
D.    Strengthening the Examination System
1. Equipment:
a. Office Equipmen for Central                   I   unit            I  unit          I   EDC
b. Personal Computer for Kanwil                 27  units           27  units         27  PEO
2. Printed Materials                              178   copies        178   copies      178   EDC
II.    STRENGTHENING ED. MANAGEMENT
A.    Dikmenum Operation System
A. 1: DPDOS
1. Office Equipment                                  I  set            78   set           I   DSE
2. Printed Materials                                 I  set        25,650   copies       28   DSE, 27 PEO
A. 2: Kandep Pilot Program (5 Kandeps)
1. Office Equipment                                  5  units          45   units        45   DEO
B.    MOEC Management Information System
1. Office Equipment                                  I  unit             I  unit          I   CI
2. Printed Materials (MIS Bulletin)              Varies                 12  editions     12   DSE, PEO,
school
C.    Management Training Program
1. Office Equipment                                  I  unit            I   unit          I   PB/SGMOEC
2. Printed Materials                                 I  set              I  set            I  PB/SGMOEC



- 21 -
TABLE 6.(d) STATUS OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
COSTS (US S000)                CONSULTANT-
_________                     ~~MOUNTHS
CATEGORY             SAR                 PURPOSE/           IMPLE-
OF CONSULTANT    TARGET                     ACTIVITIES    MENTING  APPRAISAL    ACTUAL    APPRAISAL ACTUAL                                       OUTCOMES
AGENCY    ESTIMATES                          ESTIMATES
IMPROVEMENT OF
SECONDARY ED.
QUALITY
A    Teacher Up-Grading
Through PKG Training
I  Expatriate Consultants     120 p      To support instructors in   DSE          3,01540              361B4          180 pm      34 pm  Contribution ofexpatriate
(Specialist in teaching               Implementing PF;G                                                                                consultants was statisfactory ad
Science. Math, English,               Training focusing on                                                                             it made the implementation of
Ind and IPS/Geografi)                teaching subject                                                                                  PKG Training could be un well
in achieving the objectves.
2. Nat/Prov Consuitants
a. National Consultants     10 p      To support instructors.  DSE               322.31              54.80         ISO  pm     26 pm  Contfibution of national
guru ini in implementing                                                                         consultants was statisfacnory and
PF'G Training focusing                                                                           it made the implementation of
on reaching subject                                                                              PFKG Training could be run mell
counterpart for expatriates                                                                     in achieving theobjectves.
However, the number of
b. Prov. Consultants       238 p      Tosupport insuuctors/    PEO               131 14               000          900 pm       0      No realization
guru inti in implementing
PF;G Training focusing
on teaching subject
counterpart for expatriate
Sub Total                  368 p                                                3468.85              416 64        1230 pm      60 pm
B    Dev. of Enviromental
Program
1. Local Consultants                     To support the Project in  Canceled        172.10           Canceled     Canceled      Canceled              Canceled
implementing the 0Dv. of
an Enviromental Program
|   Sub Torai                                                                   172.10
C.   Improving The Quality
of Science Education
I Testing and Quality
Control
a  Expatriate Consultants       IS p     To support the Project in   DSE          1.22246              45S26           75 pm      29 pm  Contribution ofexpatriate
implementing the improv                                                                          consultants  as statisfatory and
of science ed focusing                                                                          it made the i,plrmen,afion of
on testing and quality                                                                           Science education program could
control                                                                                          be run well in ahieving  the
objecaves. However, the number
b. National Consultants        40 p      To support the Project in   DSE            195 93              145 52        460 pm    384 pm  Contribudon of national
implementing the improv.                                                                         consultants was statisfactory and
of science ed. counterpart                                                                       it made the implementaton of
of expatriate consultants                                                                        Science education programn coud
be run well in achieving the
2: Reg Science Equip.                                                                                                                      consultants hired almost achieved
Management. and                                                                                                                        the tauges (S % of the target).
Maintenance Training
a  Expaniate Consultants       36 pm    To support the project in    DSE            586.75                0.00         36 pm       0       No realization
implementing Reg.
Science Equip. Manag.
and Maintenance Training
counterpart of expatriate
consultants
b. Natonal Consultants         90 pm    To support the project in    DSE            172.66                6.58         90 pm        6 pm  Aithough the numberofnaional
implemening Reg.                                                                                 consultants hired was relautily
Science Equip Manag.                                                                             very small (6.6 % of the target)
and Maintenance Training,                                                                        their constribudton wm
counterpart of expatriate                                                                        satisfacory so that the program
consultants                                                                                      could be run well in achieving
_ SubTotal                  ISI pm                                              2,17780              607.36         681 pmn   419 pm,



- 22 -
rr -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTS (t'S S 000)                                                       ChONULTNTHS
CATECOFtY               SAR              PURPOSE/           IMPLE-
OF CONSULTANT    TARGET                    ACTIVITIES    MENTING  APPRAISAL                      ACTUAL  APPRAISAL ACTUAL                        OUTCOMES
AGENCY  ESTIMATES                             ESTIMATES
17 nrgtkring Tne
I     Exar,. System
i  a patiote Consulants        30 pm    To support the Project in   EDC
Iimplementing the prog.of                 28320                               30 pm      12 pm  Although the number of
strengthening exam.                                                                              consultants hired was small.
system...                                                     151.36                             their wnerfibumtionathe program
b  National Consulants         66 pm    To support the Project in   EDC                                                                   program could he run well a
planned.
implemening the progof                    116.80                              66 pm      24 pm  Although the number of
strengthening exam,                                                                              consultants hired was small.
system.                                                                                          their contribution to the program
was stadsfactroy and it made the
program could be run well as
planned.
ISub Total                    96 pm                                               400.00              151.36          96 PM       36 pm____________
Specitic Consultants
Na;t Consoltan: for den of   64.8 pm    To support the Project in   EDC           2.269.99              .              65 m         .     No realization
xam. network, itri bnk.                 implementing den, of
sofi-wre and MIS Cot                    exam. network item bank,
decision making                          software, and MIS in ed.
sector
Sub Total                 64.8 pm                                             2,269.99                             65 m
1 l  STkZNGTHENiNGED
IMANAGEMENT
.  A    Dik-- exi Operation
I Syst:e  (DPDOS)
j     DPDOS
a  Expatriate Consultant      190 pm    To support the Project in   DGSE           452.38               .             198 pm        .      No realizarion
implementing DPDOS
Notional Consultant          100 pm    To support the Project in   PEO            495 a0                970          108 pm       2 pm  The number ofoonsultants hired
implementng DPDOS                                                                                was very small (2% of the target)
2  Kandep Pilot Programt                                                                                                                   program was not satisfactory.
(5 Kandeps)
Niatonal Co,sul sot        600 d      To suppon the Project in                    52.17                             20 pm         -     No realizaoion
in,pient-iog Kandep
Pilot Program
, L   SubTotal           '; ~' 906 pm                                            '1,000.35                9.70        326 pm        2 pm
B.   MOEC Manag. Inform
i system (MIS)
s Expatriate Contultant        96 pm    To support the Project in   Cl             800.00              184.00         96 pm       22 pm  Althoaugh the number of
tmplementing Der,. of MIS                                                                        consultants hired was small (23 %
of the target) their constribudon
to the progratm was satisfactory
and it made the program, could
be run as planned
National consuotant        120 pm    TosupporthenProject in                     155.99               53.00        120 pm       41 pm  Altioughthenumberof
implementing Den, of. MIS                                                                        consultants hired was small (34 %
of the target) their constribuion
to the progrmns wsas satisfacory
C    MaI SbTrontio                  216 pm                                               955.99              23700         216 pm       63 PM
C  Manag. Training Pro&
i. Expatriate Consultant
a LongtermTA               156 pm    To support the Project in  PB            2,102.41          134,192.00         156 pm    145 pm  Thenumberof consultantuhired
tmnp)ementing blanug.                                                                            was small (9 % of the target) and
their constnrbudion to the program
Training Program                                                                                 was not satsfclory
b. Shormterm TA            220 pm    To suppon the Project in                   671.09                             220 pm       0      No realization
tmplemmtfing Mmaga
Training Program
2  National Consultants       420 pm    To support the Project in                   126.51              19.S0         420 pm      66 pm  The numberof consultants hired
implementing Manag.                                                                              was small (14.7 % of the target)
Trailning ProgrMa                                                                                and their constributon to the
_______________________   __________     _____________    ______________                               program    seas   not   satistfsatisf ctoor
I  SobTotal                    796 pm                                              2,900.01         134,211.80        796  pm      Sl pno
TOTA                    2627Spm                                               13.345.09         135,6338n6       3.410 pm   660.5 pm



- 23 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                                  at Appraisal/Redefined         SAR                 Status
1. Improvement of Secondary
Education Quality
A. Policy Studies
Policy studies on "Policy Options for  To study the issues of equity in  3 studies        Completed
Improved   equity  in   secondary  education, land operation and                          (3 studies)
education, and secondary education,  maintenance needs of secondary
Public support to private education, and  schools as inputs for decision
Operation and maintenance needs of  making.
secondary schools"
B. Evaluation studies and studies for
future project
Evaluation studies and future project  To      evaluate     Project     various           Completed
implementation  and  conduct                        (29 studies)
studies as input for future
projects.
C. Studies on Examinations
I. Studies on the issues of examinations  To study examination system     12 studies         Completed
issues and  to  improve  the                       (14 studies)
system.
2. Seminars related to examinations      Dissemination  of results  of  10 seminars          Completed
research, studies, pilot activities                (10 seminars)
related to examinations.
11. Studies on Ed. Management System         To identify systems required to
1. MIS Studies on Personnel, Finance,    effectively    operate     a   3 studies         Completed
Logistics.                            computerized personnel, finance                  (3 studies)
and   logistics   information
system.
To  identify  staff skills and
2. Training Needs Assessment/Studies     training    requirements   to   7 studies        (Canceled)
implement personnel, finance
and logistics system.



- 24 -
Table 8(a): Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                 Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local        Foreign       Total     Local       Foreign    Total
Item                                             Costs         Costs                   Costs      Costs
1. Improving Secondary Education Quality
a. Teacher up-grading through PKG Training          64.4          18.1          82.5      86.7       12.1      98.8
b. Developing an environmental program               0.4           0.0           0.4
c. Improving the quality of science education:
1) Procurement and distribution of science        14.4          42.0          56.4     68.0        18.1      86.1
equipment
2) Testing and quality control                     0.7           0.8           1.5
3) Science equipment management training           3.4           0.8           4.2
d. Strengthening the exarnination system              6.1           4.9          11.0      5.4        2.1       7.5
Subtotal Education Quality                            89.4          66.6         156.0     160.1       32.3      192.4
2. Strengthening Education Management                                                       1.1        0.4       1.5
a. MOEC management information system           1.0                 1.3           2.3
b. Dikmenum operational systems                 2.8                 2.4           5.2
c. Management trainingprogram                           5.9         4.7          10.6
d. Studies/project preparation                  0.9                 0.8           1.7     2.4         2.1       4.5
3.3                  3.3
Subtotal Education Management                         10.6           9.2          19.8     6.8         2.5       9.3
3. Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation of
Project Implementation                               1.4          0.1            1.5
4. Total Baseline Cost                               101.4          75.9         177.3
S. Contingencies:
a. Physical                                          1.5          5.0           6.5
b. Price Increase                                   22.5          17.1         39.6
Subtotal Contingencies                                24.0          22.1          46.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  125.4           98.0        223.4     166.9       34.8      201.7
Table 8(b): Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSm)                Actual/Latest Estimate(US$m)
Local        Foreign        Total         Local         Foreign    Total
Source                 Costs         Costs                        Costs         Costs
IBRD/IDA                   56.2          98.0          154.2      103.8         34.8          138.6
Domestic Contribution      69.2           -            69.2       63.1           0.0           63.1
TOTAL                    125.4         98.0          223.4       166.9         34.8          201.7



- 25 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Indonesia
Second Secondary Education and Management Project
Agreement    Section   Covenant   Present  Original    Revised      Description of covenant    Comments
type       Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
ID-PE-3873    1.3       10         NC        09/12/94               No disbursement Category  The studies and Action Plan
4(b) till implementation of  for this component were not
para. 6, Schedule 5 begun.   acceptable to the Bank and the
Government has decided not
to implement the program.
5.1(a)    05         C         09/12/94               Appoint        Education  Complied with.
Coordinator of DGPS three
years, one full-time or two
part-time.
5.1(b)    05         C         04/08/94               Appoint    three    PIU   The PIU Director for Unit 3 is
Directors   and   PMCC  no longer active since this
Secretary, 3 years one full-  component was suspended.
time and 2 one-half time by  PIU Directors were appointed
July 1, 1990.             in the 5 pilot provinces.
5.1(c)    12         C         12/01/93               By April 1, 1992 fill all  These positions are sometimes
subject specialists posts.  vacant due to staff changes.
5.2 (a)   12         C         08/19/91               Establish PKG examination  Complied with.
teams by June 1, 1991.
5.2(b)    12         CP        04/08/94               Establish  each  provincial  MENPAN has now officially
examination team with 10  approved the establishment of
subject  specialists  and  these positions and MOEC is
evaluator by February  1,  finalizing the implementation
1993.                     measures.
5.3      10          C         12/01/93               By January 1. 1992 furnish  Complied with.
action plan for management
studies.
5.4      11          NC        04/08/94               Provide by April 1, 1994  The system for provision of
permanent  funding  for  science  equipment in  the
procurement, replenishment  project is flawed and is being
and maintenance of science  improved.  Decision on this
equipment for secondary  covenant has, therefore, not
schools.                  been made. The pilot project
would throw up solutions.
Additional studies are also
planned in the East Java1NTT
Junior Secondary Education
Project.
5.5      09          C         12/01/93               Borrower shall, in October  Implementation review  was
of each year, carry  out  briefly done in October 1996
implementation review.    during another mission but the
supervision mission was in
January 1997.
5.6      10          CP        04/08/94               By  September  1, 1990  The Action Plan was not
review results of integrated  acceptable to the Bank. This
management  study  and  component was restructed.
based on review, furnish by
March 31, 1991 an action
program.



-26 -
Agreement    Section   Covenant   Present   Original    Revised       Description of covenant    Comments
type        Status    fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
3.01      10         CP         11/19/92               Implement project as per  Project  implementation  in
Schedule 2  and  provide  FY95 and FY96 has been
funds.                     concentrated in 5 provinces to
improve efficiency.  Project
management in the provinces
would also be strengthened in
these  provinces  to  ensure
success.
ID-PE-3873    3.02      03          C         11/19/92                Procure    goods    and  Complied with.
consultants as per Schedule
4 of Loan Agreement.
44.0 1(b)   01       C         04/08/94                Annual  audit  including  Complied with.
SOB.
4.01(c)   09         C          11/19/94               Maintain   records   and  Although  management  of
accounts.                  project    accounts    had
improved, there  has  been
problems more recently.
Covenant types:
I.  =   Accounts/audits                                  8. =  Indigenous people
2.  =   Financial performance/revenue generation from     9.=  Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3.  =   Flow and utilization of project funds            11. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy budgetary or other
4.  =   Counterpart funding                                     resource allocation
5.  =   Management aspects of the project or executing   12. =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional
6.  =   Environmental covenants                          13. =  Other
7.  =   Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C.  =   covenant complied with
CD =   complied with after delay
CP =   complied  i ith partially
NC =   not complied with
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable OM statements.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                         Planned                Revised              Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks  US$    Weeks  US$   Weeks  US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                       72.1      182.7
Appraisal-Board                                                                                53.1      138.7
Supervision                                                                                  233.8       681.4
Completion                                        12.0                   7.0        22.6       12.1       31.0
TOTAL                                                   -               -            -      371.1       1033.8



- 27 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                     Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/         of        Days in        Staff Skills      tation          ment          Types of
Project Cycle        Year      Persons        Field       Represented         Status       Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal      5/87        3           2             Education              _               _              _
Planning/Imple
mentation
Specialist
6/88       5                          Ed..Planning,
Operations
Analyst,
Educator
Economist, Ed.
6/89       6           20            Planner,
Architect/lmple
mentation
Appraisal through       11/89      2           7             Architect/Imple
Board Approval                                               mentation,
Education Spec.s
3/90        I          7             Ed.Planner              I
Supervision            6/90        I           5             Ed.Planner             2               1         procurement
10/90      2           11            Ed Planner,Spec.        2              1         procurement/
management
4/91       2           10            Ed. Planner, Ed.        2
Specialists
7/91        1          9                                     21
Ed.Planner,                                     management/
Ed Planner,                                      compliance
10/91      2           5             Specialists,           2
Implementation                                   mangement
2/92       2           8                                     2              1
6/92        I    .    3              Planner                 2              I          procurement
9/92       3            16            Ed Planner,            2               1
Specialist, ImpI.
4/93       2            10            Exams, Sci,            2              1
Planner
11/93      4           21             Ed. Specialists,      2               2
Implementation,                                  management
Procurement
2/94       4           21
8/94       3           21                                    U              S
12/94  3  21                           s              s        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~management/
12194      3           21                                    S              S
procurement
04/95      4           21                                    S              S



- 28 -
Ed. Specialists,
Procurement,
Economist,
Textboks,
Science
11/95      2           26             Specialist             s               s
Planner, Imp].
2/96        2           22                                    S              S
Textbooks and
Equipment, Ed.
7/96        7          4              Planner                 S              S
Education
Specialists, Ed.
Planner,
4/97        4           21            Implementation          S               S
Ed. Planner,
Implementation,
/98         1           10            Ed. Planner
Completion                05/98         2            8        Education
Specialist, Ed.
L    _ _ _    _                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Planner



- 29 -
Annex 1
Aide-Memoire of Last Supervision Mission:
The attached Aide-Memoire is based on the last full supervision mission. By this time, most program
activities were completed. The Project was extended to allow final ICB procurement for science
equipment to be completed by December 31, 1998.
Follow-up by staff from Washington and the Jakarta office of the World Bank continued to supervise the
procurement process and ICR process and to communicate with the Borrower by letter. These are on
project files.



- 30 -
Indonesia
Second Secondary Education and AManagement Project
(LN: 3158-IND)
Supervision Mission January 12-31,1997
Aide Memoire
Introdutction
1.    A World Bankl Mission visited Indonesia from January 12-3 1, 1997 to supervise
implementation of the Second Secondary Education and Management Project - LN 3158-
IND. The mission was carried out in parallel with the supervision of the three Junior
Secondary Education Projects - East Java/NTT (LN: 4042-IND), Central Indonesia
(LN:4062-IND), and Sumatra (LN: 4095-IND). The mission comprised Messrs. Donald
Hamilton, Education Specialist (Mission Leader) and Yves Tencalla (Consultant, Project
Management Specialist). The Mission was assisted by Messrs. Marsoedi Soedjak ( Senior
Procurement Specialist, RSI) and Basiiius Bengotek-u (Operations Ofm-cer, RSI). The
mission focused particularly on (a) reviewing the PIU work program for the next six
months, to determine the feasibility of completing the project by the June 30, 1997 closing
date; Co) agree on a plan for preparation of the ICR, especialiy the sections related to the
development impact of the project, the reasons for, and results of restructuring the project,
and lessons learnt during project implementation, and (c) GOI's response to the Bank}'s
comrnments on recommendations of award of contracts for supply of science equipment.
Meetinas were held with the Director-General of Primary and Secondary Education, Prof
Zainal Aclmnady, the Director of Secondary Education, Dr. Boediono, the Director of the
txaminations Development Center, Dr. Yahya Umar, and staff of the Project
irnplemen:a-ion U,n.it. The mission wishes to thank all staff at the central and provincial
ievels for ;he assistance and hospizality received during the visi..
Proiect Financial Status
2.    The financial information provided by the Project Director shows that as of
January 28, 1997 USS I 19 mnillion had been disbursed, (excluding USS 12 million in the
Special Account), and USS 16.9 million spent ob commritted. Expenditures of about
USS4.8 million are planned by June 30, 1997, leaving an unprogramarmed amount of about
US513.5 million. Trus unprogramr-ed amount is about three times the USS-..S fizure
provided to the Mission in October, 1996. The increase is partly explained by lower than
estimated exoendirtres of about USS 4.5 million on a number of contracts including: (a)
USS 1.7 miliion from the tex-tbook^s contract because Bank} disbursements for these
contracts were at 63% instead of the expected 100%1; and (b) USS2.1 million on
international fellowships because of contracting directly with universities, thereby
eliminating fees to comp,,anies for managing the program. However, the PIIT also
Tin books er.s no; prc;  -x-i-_:cr: ontermationallv as planned



- 31 -
inforned the mission that the figure of USS5.9 nillion showvn in the project accounts in
October as spent and committed, was overstated by USS4.2 rmillion.
3.    This sudden increase of the unprogrammed amount from USS 4.8 nillion is a
matter of serious concern. The PIU should provide a full explanation of what led to the
sudden increase in unprogrammed funds by mid-March, 1997.
4.    The unsatisfactory state of accounting in the project is even more disturbing, given
the recent report of mis-appropriation of project funds in NTT. Although the mission
received information during the last few days about the incident no details were provided.
ln view of the concerns raised by these two incidents, MOEC should be asked to: (a) provide
by mid-March, 1997, a full explanation of what led to the sudden increase in unprogramnmed
fimds; (b) furnish the Bank- details the reported incident in NIby end of April, 1997, which
should include: (i) an explanation of tie circumstances in which the funds were mnis-used, (ii)
the total amount involved in the incident, and a statement on whether similar incidents may
have occurred in other provinces, (iii) if the funds in question were paid out of the Special
Account, and if so what caused the break-down in controls, and (iv) the reasons why the Bank
was not informed earlier.
D.    Following receipt of the report, the Bank- should review vit GOI, the accounting
control mechanisms tO determine whether they need to be improved. Also, the Bank should
carry-out an ex-post review of (random) Statement OfExpendinLres fior the Dip Year 1995/96
in NIT, to evaluate the results on the ground of the utilization of loan funds.
6.    The MOEC has sent proposals for using the USS 13.5 million by the June 30, 1997
closing date. Tne value added in the proposed use of the funds is unlikely to be substantial
given that the main lessons from the pilot project in the five provinces have been learnt
Further, decisions on the use of loan savings should be postDoned  until questions related to the
sudcen increase o. uncro-rarrmned funds and the rnis-appropriation of funds have been
resolved.
Imrnlementation of Proirams
6.    The developmen.al impact of the project continues to be positive as good progress
has been made in the irmiementation of the agreed work- program for the current year,
except for procurement of science equipment.  Supply of textbooks to schools is being
completed, and this *ill increase the number of pupils who receive better teaching because
of improved teaching materials. The in-se-vice teacher training program is reaching more
teachers. esnecially those in remote areas, and is beina institutionai;zed at the district level
to increase its errectiveness. The development of'the examinations system continues, and
the project has triggered sianificant institutional changes in the management of education.
The developmental imipac: of the project is fur,her described below and in the section on
project completion.



- 32 -
7.    A schedule of progress on project activities is shown in the annex 1. All planned
project activities have been completed, or will be completed by June, 1997 including
delivery of science equipment for which contracts are now being awarded.
S.    With resgard to the in-service teacher training prozram (PKG) school principals
who will provide in-school support teachers who have followed the PKG program has
been trained, and the third phase training of instructors and key teachers will be completed
in March. Teaching materials and computer software to improve teaching practice has
also been procured for the PKG centers.
9.    Contracts for the supply of science equipment have now been approved for about
USSS million of the estimated USS 10 million worth of equipment to be supplied. It is
expected that the issues surrounding outstanding contract awards will be resolved soon.
The process was severely delayed because of investizations about irregularities which led
to the disqualification of two bidders. Training of teachers and lab assistants in the use
and maintenance of the equipment was completed in December, 1996 and the program is
now being evaluated to so that improvements could be made on the program for future
courses. Distibution of remaining equipment under ICB 3 is now being finalized.
10.   Arrangements for integrating the examination units in the provinces into the civil
service structure are now being flnalized. INENTAN has given approval to MOEC for the
establishment of the units and the latter are currently work-ing out the internal details of
the structure. In the meantime these units continue to wvork- on the development of item
bank-s for the various provinces. The Examinations Development Cente. is currently
establishing a computerized data bank for Ebtanas examination results and are introducing
the FIM  and LISREL computer software to deepen the analysis of examination results.
Electronic optical mark readers have been bought for each province to ensure accurate
szo.in2 o ex,min,ations. S kills of EDC sta  is being furIher d-veloDed Zhrou2h o0n-tne-
job-T7aini2n in examination centers in Australia.
11.   Suvl.v o"ftext-books to schools has now been compieted following the approval of
&GOI counterpart munds to finance the 35% of the cost of books. This became necessary
because the bid prices were for local purchase inciuding taxes and did not quali;y for
100% financing from the Bank.
12.   The focus of the Mana2ement comDonent continues to be on the strenz,henins the
provinces and schools for the design and management of education projects. School
principals we-re provided wvith hands on management training in Australia, and the one year
masters trairnIPe pro2r7- in educational management for sta:F from the provinces w,ill be
completed in June, 1997. At the school level computerization of the student reDon. books
which are impoortant tool for monitor=in student learning is being piloted. This w-ill reduce
the substantial amount of time that teachers spend on preparing these reports, often at the
expense o. teachin. Connecting provincial MOEC offices and selected secondanr schools
to the inzemne: has also been comnleted and its use is being monitored. Internet
connection will faciiita:e communication wi;h Jakzrta and amongst provinces, including



- 33 -
SOE Ex-Post Review
14.   The PIll reported that 20 contracts with a total value of Rp 2.9 billion (USS1.24
million) were paid through SOE in FY 1996197. All these contracts are kept in the PMU's
file. The mission reviewed 5 of these contracts valued at a total of Rp 984 million as
detailed in the tables below.
15.   All five contracts were tendered through NCB procedures and were advertised
locally. Bid evaluation for each contract was done and documented properly. The
contracts were awarded to the respective lowest evaluated bidders. At the time of
supervision all of these contracts had been fully executed.
Table - 1
Contracts -  .: Total Contract    Value of Contracts
.''No. of     Reviewed '' :'Value Rp  ill          :'Reviewed
contracts  Nos.  % to Total      (USS eq)'     R   ill mI % to Total
20       5       25                  2,934      984      34
(1,249,000)
Table - 2
*O  I     ~. & Date:Contract Pr|ice           Subject    - |      Descrittion
____              C(RD mill)         (Note of-Con;acto.-)            -:_._   ::
1  1 478i-.ZBD-RPX/96        208.7             Scanner Sheets          a, b, c, d, e
__ I October 25. 1996  1PT. San Kenanzan Indah)    ,_ _ __
2    500h-2.3D-R/X/96                          Scanner Sheets          a,  d e
2  I November 4. 1996         196.3            (CV. Lan2eng)           a,,  ,
3  | 307-2.$3DR/VmZII96  |    ^7Ao x    |      Optical Scanner         a b, c. d, e
Auzus, 1-A. 1996    1    _  _      I     (PT. BnQgo Java)     I
4  | 16a-2/3D-RVN/96         n17 1A     |nlish References Books        a, b, c, d, e
AuI urst 16. 1996   1                    (CV. Bienhar Java)    I      ,
- 98a- 2BD-RPJVmIE96       6        .  Internet Development        a, b c d e
Auzst 9, 1996                      1   (CV. Karis Citratama)
Notes:
a.    Contr-act throuch NCB
b.    Adverisement
c.    Bid Evaluation Report available
d.    Owner Estimate available
e.    Contract has been completed



- 34 -
Proiect Completion
16.   The mission discussed initial MOEC assessment of the project impact and plans
for the prepzration of the ICR with the Director-General and senior staff involved in
project implementation. Recognition of the extreme difficulties in efficiently implementing
national level projects had led to the restructuring of the project to concentrate on five
province specific programs, and instigated GOI's move to decentralize management of
education to the provincial level. This lesson has been reflected in the recently approved
Junior Secondary Education Projects - East Java/NT (LN: 4042-IND), Central
Indonesia(IN: 4062-IND), and Sumatra (LN: 4095-IND) Projects - and is being further
developed in the design of the proposed Basic Education Projects.
17.   The schedule for preparation of the ICR, indicates April 15, 1997 as the deadline
for another draft of GOI's part of the report. The report will be a collaborative effort by
the Project Directors of the three UInits. Mr. Bambang Irianto for Unit I, Dr. Bahrul
Hayat for Unit II, and Pak Maimun for Unit IV. Dr. Ace Surryadi will be responsible for
Sub-Unit I, IIS component. In addition, two teams will be established to work on (a)
data collection, and (b) lessons leamt. Dr. Sapparuddin, Secretary of the Project
Management Coordination Committee will lead the effort in putting together project data,
while Dr. Ibrahim Musa will work on the section on lessons learnt. Both people have had
long experience with the project, especially Dr. Sapparrudin who participated in project
preparation. Dr. Musa helped with restructurnng the project, and provided support to the
PIJ for some months following the restructuring. The main project completion mission is
planned for June/July, 1997.
M:Hamiit on'%3 158\aide3 158.doc



- 35 -                                 Annex 2
Government of Indonesia
contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report
on the
SECOND SECONDARY EDUCATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3158-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1. The Government of Indonesia has been following a balance strategy toward education
development with the bulk of support going to lower levels of education. As part of the overall
strategy the Government has been carrying out a significant program directed towards the
improvement of secondary education quality and strengthening the capacity of education
management. The short-term objectives have been to improve the quality of teachers at the
secondary level focusing on teaching-learning processes   and strengthening education
management capacity through local training, provision of science equipment, technical
assistance, and fellowships. The long-term objective has been to support education development.
It was believed that education development would be a key factor in successful implementation
of national development. The Bank has supported these efforts in the previous project (SSEMP,
first slice) funded by Loan 2472-IND and continued to finance SSEMP, second slice, funded by
Loan 3158-lND.
Project Objectives
2. The objectives of the Project were to improve the quality of secondary education and
strengthen the capacity of education management. The Project had two major components: (a)
improvement of secondary education quality, including teacher up-grading through PKG/SPK
training (PKG/SPKG), development of environmental programs, improvement of science
education, and development of examination system; and (b) strengthening the capacity of
education management, including development of MOEC Management Information System
(MIS), development of Dikmenum  Operational  System  (DPDOS), management training
program, and studies/project preparation. The major part of the Project was PKG/SPKG for the
retraining of teachers in Mathematics, Science, English, Indonesian Language, and Social
Sciences/Geography including training for teacher instructors and key teachers; and provision of
science equipment. The project objectives were consistent with the Government's strategy for
education development and were in line with the Bank's strategy for assistance in human
resources development in Indonesia.
Project Management
3. The Project had three independent units, i.e.: (a) Unit I, located in Directorate of Secondary
Education (DSE) dealing with teacher training and science education improvement under which
there were MOEC MIS program and 27 sub-projects located in 27 provinces; Unit II, located in
Examination Development Center (EDC) dealing with development of examination system; and
Unit III, located in the Planning Bureau (PB) of MOEC dealing with strengthening of education



-36 -                                  Annex 2
management. The activities of all Units were coordinated and monitored by PMCC, chaired by
the Director General of Primary and Secondary Education.
Implementation Experience and Results
4. Implementation and Expenditures: The Project started to be effective in March 1990 and,
after a one year extension, was completed in June 30, 1997. The programs were satisfactorily
implemented during the project period. Total expenditures of the Project at completion is US$
200 million, consisting of US $ 140 million (IBRD) and US $ 60 million (GOI), or 90 % of the
total project cost with value of US$ 223.4 million. The target of expenditures could not be met
due to: (a) the cancellation of management training and development of environmental
programs; (b) low level science equipment/materials procurement; and (c) fewer consultants
employed. It might be that the high contingency cost of Loan 3158-IND, about 26 % of the
baseline cost, indirectly caused the low expenditures of the Project. The percentage of Loan
financing of the Project was 70 %, compared with the appraisal estimate of 69 %.
5. Problems: Due to the complexity of the Project and low management capacity, the Project
faced significant problems, such as weak coordination, monitoring, and supervision of project
activities; low quality and quantity of data/information received by the Project from sub-projects
in provinces; difficulties in distributing educational equipment to schools; and other problems
relating to management. Efforts have been made, and in Fiscal Year 1995/1996 the Project
carried out substantial changes which resulted in the cancellation of management training and
development of environmental programs, reallocation of funds, and a tryout of a new approach
in five provinces. These substantial changes slightly improved program implementation.
Another significant problem was the long response from the Bank to the Project, especially the
response to No Objection Letter (NOL), that made programs or project goals could not be
implemented as planned.
6. Achievement of Project Objectives: The Project achieved its immediate objectives with
minor shortcomings. With respect to the improvement of secondary education quality, the
achievement was depicted in the following. A number of teachers were effectively trained
through PKG/SPKG and their teaching capability was improved. They implemented the training
results at their schools, and some were actively involved in PKG/SPKG Model C to train
teachers in remote areas and MGMP program to train teachers who did not have opportunity to
participate in PKG/SPKG. Science equipment was procured and distributed to schools, where it
was maintained and utilized to support science teaching-learning processes. Science teachers
were trained in science equipment utilization. A fellowship program was conducted for teachers
and education administrators, and all have successfully completed their study programs. A
number of consultants were hired and they effectively worked supporting the implementation of
project programs. Teachers and education administrators were trained in examination
development, and they established an examination network, formed an examination team, and
developed an item bank. Calibrated items were used in the EBTANAS examination. In addition,
EDC in collaboration with Menpan and BAKN wrote a proposal concerning functional position
in examination which was planned to be responsible for examination program. This functional
position is being proposed to the relevant Ministers for approval. A number of studies were
conducted. The results were disseminated to agencies within MOEC, and to some extent
contributed to program implementation improvement. Some of them may serve a rational basis
for designing future projects. The management training and development of an environmental
program were implemented by other MOEC projects.



- 37 -                                 Annex 2
7. Program Impact: The impact of the program on education quality improvement can be
described as follows. The improved capability in teaching-learning processes of teachers resulted
from PKG/SPKG and the implementation of training results by the trained teachers at schools,
PKG/SPKG Model C, and MGMP program had a positive impact on the improvement of
secondary education quality. The availability of science equipment at schools and its utilization
by trained teachers resulted in improved teachers' skill and knowledge in utilizing science
equipment and made teachers and students to be accustomed to using the equipment positively
contributed to the improvement of science education quality. The improved skill and knowledge
of returnees resulted from fellowship programs that made the returnees capable of serving as high
level of teachers and education administrators in education development was a positive factor for
the improvement of education quality. The activities of examination team and its results, such as
calibrated items which were used in EBTANAS improved the quality of examination as an effort
in the improvement of secondary education quality. The results of studies that contributed to
program implementation improvement and provided a rational basis for designing future projects
were indicators of positive contributions to the improvement of education quality. All of the
conditions mentioned above are determining factors in education quality improvement. Since
management training and development of environmental programs were canceled, it is difficult to
ascertain the impact of the education management program on the strengthening of education
management capacity.
8. Sustainability: The sustainability of the Project with respect to teacher training and
fellowship program largely depends on the utilization of trained teachers and returnees and
their contribution to education development as envisaged in the project objectives. Efforts have
been made, such as improved re-entry arrangements and monitoring retumee performance. At
present, the following activities support the sustainability of the Project. Trained teachers have
been implementing the training results at their schools, being involving in the implementation of
MGMP program, and some have been teacher instructors in PKG/SPKG Model C. At schools,
teachers and students have been maintaining and utilizing science equipment in the teaching-
learning of science supported by teachers who have been trained in utilizing science equipment.
The examination team in each PEO has been working in test preparation, operation, and analysis;
and developing calibrated items which has been used in a nationally standardized examination
(EBTANAS). In addition, some SSEMP programs, such as PKG/SPKG and MGMP are being
continued by JSEPs, continuing projects supported by the Bank. The sustainability of the Project
will be strengthened further if the proposal of functional position in examination which is now
being proposed to the related Ministers is approved.
Summary of findings, future operation, and key lessons learned
9. Summary of Findings: The summary of findings from the implementation is as follows.
PKG/SPKG training significantly improved teachers' capability in teaching-learning processes.
Trained teachers implemented the training results at schools, and were actively involved in the
implementation of MGMP program and PKG/SPKG Model C. This in turn improved education
quality. Science equipment was maintained and used effectively and supported by trained
teachers. This condition improved teachers and students' skill and knowledge, at least made
them accustomed to using science equipment in teaching-learning of science which would
improve science education quality. The utilization of returnees was high as indicated by their role
in education services as high level teachers and education administrators and by their
involvement in education development activities. Examination development contributed
significantly to education quality improvement. Besides  improving teacher's skills and



-38-                                    Annex 2
knowledge in examination development, training in examination development also motivated
teachers to establish an examination network, form an examination team, and develop item
bank. This team actively worked in test preparation, operation, and analysis; and developed
calibrated items which were used in the EBTANAS. The examination activity also produced a
proposal for a functional position in examinations which is now being proposed to the concemed
Ministers for approval. Some results of studies were effectively used to improve program
implementation and became a rational basis for designing future projects. Due to the cancellation
of management training and development of an environmental program, there was no descriptive
report on the subjects.
10. Future Operation: SSEMP programs relating to education quality improvement, such as
teacher training, provision of science equipment and books, fellowships, and strengthening the
capacity of education management are being continued under JSEPs, continuing projects
supported by the Bank. At present, the JSEPs consist of three projects, namely JSEP Loan 4042-
IND, JESP Loan 4062-lND, and JSEP Loan 4095-lND. In the JSEP, teacher training focuses on
teachers in remote areas using PKG/SPKG Model C and MGMP. Provision of science equipment
and books are directed to meet the real needs of school, and the fellowship program is conducted
based on need assessment. The program on education management capacity improvement is
directed to strengthen education management at school, sub-district, district, and province levels
as well as at central office. All of these programs are parts of Nine-year Basic Education
Program.
11. Lessons Learned: During implementation, the Project was faced with many problems.
Analysis of why the problems arose, what the causes were, how to solve the problems, and what
we will do next are important lessons leamed from the Project. As presented in previous
paragraph, the problems faced by the Project were mainly due to the unmet management capacity
needed to implement the Project. Important efforts to solve the problems have been made, such
as reducing the number and variety of programs and limiting the territorial scale of the Project.
Besides that, a new approach has been tried out in five provinces and the results have proved that
the approach used in SSEMP was not met with the current education management capacity. The
implication was that new projects should: (a) change the approach from centralization to
decentralization so that more authority and responsibility is given to projects in provinces, (b)
limit the scale of the project territory so that fewer provinces are involved, (c) develop programs
based on the real needs of schools and provinces, (d) add programs on increased access to
education to meet  the needs of  Nine-Year Basic Education Program. All of these
recommendations are now being implemented in JSEPs.



MAP SECTION



1BRD 26570
--..,JHAILAND
PHILIPPINES                                                  INDONESIA
3 {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUNEIJf,g
S..d- n > MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                                                       PROV4NCE HEADQUARIERS
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
2                              /                                            f^MALAYSIA                                                           M                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.kob , SINGAPORE                                  J ...y                    17
S D  M  4  T F  R A         Pbnhonok 0          ,'
Pd  -               C     A                                         K  A  L I M  A  N  T A N             L  
Eoolbi                                                         15                                                                            5J3pl
11 
I  D.KXIJ.AART                                            R.GA P4,002Gkomy                                                                                                         25UAWE0I
JAWABARAT                             P0J1(129
4  DI. YOGYAKBTA                                                                                                                        20
5  JAWATIMUR                                                  817 'iING IUdG                                                                                                                 Ao0                                                     -
6LAMPUNG Bygk,, ojamdn   .d=r mo     
7 BENGKUUUL
SA6UMATERA SELNTAN
9MRAA                                          Lo-d.,
10  JAMBI1                                         LAmun                                                                     Ulnp=ndun                                                                                                                                      j 
I  SUMATERABARAT
2  SAMATERNAlUARA1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C
3DJ.IACEH                                                      JAISARTA
1   KALIMANTAN  bARAT                                            B. do L                                                                                                                                                                                                  E0Ir
S  KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           > m
10  KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                                  A  W  A
7  KEALIANTAN TIMUR                                                         3                     oyd
1   bULAWESI TENGAH                                                      Y.U2k.1oo4
9  SULAWESI UTOARAYNk/m4:hO
20  SULAWESI SELATAAN                                                                                           22     Moh3t-
21  SULAWESI TENGGARA                ---E b-,d                                                               - ob       h    71100A A J<111-o
22  bALI                      dnomioti~on  ond  ynoy                                                    O*0p0l=r     L0b25 0 
22  NUSA TENGGARA BARAT         o       moon shown                                                                              23                      24
24  NUSATENGGARATIMUR                                                                                                                      sopaA A, do  n  ;    104  K panB    01000
25  MALUKU                                                                                                                                                         CD. WfoId BOok Goop.  0  27
20  IRIMB JAYA                 02id0'         O.101
2T  TIMORTlhUR                or       on dOoo.,orf                                                                                                                                                                             AUSTRALIA
0T         Ebood&rios yr o.r                _
DECEMBER 1 994



