DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
LE COPY
Report No. P-1733I
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
December 16, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at December 8, 1975)
Rs 1.00             Paise 100
US$1.00              Rs 8.91
Rs 1.00        =    US$0.1123
Rs 1 million   =    US$112,250
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially
valued at a fixed Pound Sterling rate. Since then, it
has been fixed relative to a "basket" of currencies.
As all of these currencies are now floating, the U.S.
Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions at preparation/appraisal in May were made
at US$1 to Rs 8.00 which was close to the short-term
average at that time.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDEsNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$4.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance technical assistance in the Indian
Forestry Sector. The proceeds of the credit - except US$100,000 for a study
to be executed by the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) on the effect of
large scale commercial forestation on the tribal population - would be made
available as a grant to the Madhya Pradesh State Forest Development Corporation
(MPFDC). For the Study on Tribals the Government of India (GOI) would channel
US$100,000 from the proceeds of the credit to GOMP in. accordance with GOI's
standard terms and arrangements for the financing of State development projects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY -
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and. Prospects of India"
(691a-IN dated May 1, 1975), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1975. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity. While India's economic policies and performance
have their shortcomings, the sheer magnitude of the task facing the Gov-
ernment must be recognized; the country is divided into more than 20 states
with a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's
poverty and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of
external resources averaging in recent years only about US$1 per head per
annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability
of water. A bad monsoon, which is inevitable from time to time, has a
pervasive influence over the entire economy and wipes out the results of
years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income has averaged
a modest 4% during the past 25 years, but only about 1% during the last
four years (1971/72-1974/75), which have included two consecutive monsoon
failures -- i.e., an actual decline in per capita terms.
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and has all too often fallen short of India's
massive needs. The growth of the socioeconomic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been spectaculalr, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of varLable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and
structural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments
in many other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stag-
nation and possibly even decline. Despite these improvements and although
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to those in the President's
Report on the Fertilizer Industry Project (P-1723-IN, dated December 2, 1975).



- 2 -
the distribution of income in India is relatively even by comparison with
most developing countries, there has been little impact upon the living
standards of the vast masses of the urban and rural population. The Govern-
ment has become increasingly concerned about the plight of the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated in
recent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate
poverty.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.   Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly and,
since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant at a level of 23%.
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods
production 25 years ago.
6.        Despite the slow pace of change and despite the undeniable magni-
tude of the problems confronting her, India has the potential in a number
of important fields to mount a development effort which has a reasonable
chance of success in the longer run. In agriculture, as discussed in the
economic report of May 1975, the particular opportunities of substantial
promise for improving the food situation over the next decade are:
a.   Rejuvenation of the Green Revolution in wheat which
has taken place in recent years in the Northwest
and to a lesser extent in Bihar and West Bengal,
but which has been losing momentum since about
1970. This is the result of deficiencies which
can be corrected -- most importantly seed deteriora-
tion and lagging irrigation development.
b.   Better use of the vast potentials that have been
created by surface irrigation through more expedi-
tious project completion and complementary land
and on-farm improvements to ensure better manage-
ment and higher productivity of water.
c.   Acceleration of groundwater development, especially
in the Eastern regions, which are figuratively de-
scribed as "floating on water," where the untapped
potential is large and where consequently there are
large opportunities for multiple cropping, better
water management and greater crop security.
d.   Promotion of increased production of monsoon rice,
based on improved varieties which as yet have had
only modest success but which are expected, on
the basis of current research, to open the way



- 3 -
to much greater productivity over India's vast
rain-fed rice producing areas during the next
few years.
e.   Pursuit of the promising, although somewhat less
definite, potential for greater productivity in
dryland cultivation and for extensive introduction
of higher-yielding varieties of coarse grains.
:ause of the difficulties likely to be encountered :Ln the effective deve'-
nent of these potentials, their realization is likely to follow uneven time
tterns, probably coming in bursts of expanded production as in the case
the Green Revolution. And, along with administrative concentration and
Eectiveness, they will all require provision of the supplies and services,
pecially fertilizer and power for irrigation, which are essential comple-
nts of the necessary technical and environmental changes.
Greater agricultural success would also make an important contribu-
Dn to India's perenially difficult balance of paymenats situation, which is
equently aggravated by the need for large food imports. From the balance
payments viewpoint, another essential ingredient for a resumption of
lest growth is sustained export volume growth at considerably higher rates
in have been achieved historically. In view of the composition of Indian
ports, the momentum for such growth would have to be provided primarily
the rapid expansion of industrial exports which, in addition to easing
e foreign exchange constraint, would act as an important stimulant to
dustrial growth -- notably absent since the mid-sixties. In the field
energy, too, there is considerable potential in the development of
cently discovered oil resources and in the continued expansion of coal
oduction.
It is hard, however, to conceive of the timely and effective
ploitation of these various potentials unless administrative capabili-
es, which are overtaxed and diffused in an attempt to guide and control
st economic activities, are focused on these areas. The requirement for
dustrial export stimulation would appear to be more generous and expedi-
ous incentives, sufficiently attractive and reliable to induce domestic
oducers to venture into the competitive pressures cf world markets.
nally, realization of India's potential will undoubtedly also require
considerable infusion of external assistance, both to ease the payments
nstraints and to supplement the limited domestic resources available for
velopment.
While there is thus potential for resuming the interrupted process
growth, there remains the formidable obstacle of t:he short-run difficulties
cing India. Last year began with deficient winter rains and a poor spring
rvest, with one of the worst Government wheat procurement experiences on
cord, with a prospective balance of payments deficit of US$2.5 bbillion or
ice as much as in the preceding year, with inflation running at an annual
te of 30% and a fiscal situation seemingly out of hand, and with serious
ergy and material shortages and little prospect for alleviating them



- 4 -
through imports within the severe constraints of the balance of payments.
It was hardly surprising in this situation that adjustment to immediate
difficulties was the prime economic preoccupation. Growth had necessarily
to take a second place to short-run exigencies in the emphasis of economic
policy in this first year of the Fifth Five-Year Plan period.
10.       Monetary expansion, which had been running at a rate of 15% In
1973/74, was reduced through tight credit restrictions. The burden ..'
these restrictions was borne largely by private and Government commercial
activities, without a significant reduction in the rate of increase in net
bank financing of the Government Budget. To this curtailment of credit to
the commercial sector, there was added the deflationary influence arising
from a massive trade deficit; as a result, the rate of monetary expansion
in 1974/75 was reduced to about 6%, or less than half that of the previous
year. This, in combination with some improvements in physical supply,
relieved the upward pressure on prices, and there was even a small price
reduction in the second half of the fiscal year. With continuing t,ight
monetary policies, prospects are for price stability this year.
11.       The food problem was probably the single most threatening element
on the economic scene last year.   A poor harvest and low procurement in the
spring was only the start of agricultural adversities. Next was failure
of the mid-year monsoon in many key agricultural areas and a monsoon (kharif)
crop which fell below that of 1973 by about 5 million tons. The result was
a severe shortage of domestic foodgrains for the public distribution system,
with availabilities only about half of an austere level of requirements. A
real food crisis was averted, however, by imports of more than 6 million tons
of foodgrains during the year ending in March 1975; this was almost twice as
much as the imports of 1973/74. With these imports and with relative empha-
sis on food distribution in the cities rather than the countryside, where
supply conditions were presumed to be not quite so unmanageable, the threat-
ening food situation was weathered, although not without hunger and priva-
tion for a great many of the rural poor who were unable to afford much of
what food was available.
12.       The oil situation was managed, although at double the cost for a
marginally lower import level, by curbs on consumption and by substitution.
Motor spirits were heavily taxed to reduce consumption by about 20%; factories
and power plants were converted from fuel oil to coal wherever possible
and supplies of fuel oil were reduced by more than 15%; coal production,
after years of stagnation, was increased by about 13%, and, after a poor
start, transport managed to keep up with the additional coal in spite of
serious labor troubles on the railways. There was also some improvement in
the operation of the deficient power system through special efforts to raise
the low capacity utilization of thermal plants and by a more systematic allo-
cation of available power, with special priority for requirements of agri-
cultural irrigation and fertilizer production. Power shortage has remained,
nevertheless, a severe constraint on the economies of many regions. Among
other critical shortages, the supply situation eased in the course of the
year, especially for fertilizer, steel and non-ferrous metals. The fer-
tilizer situation was brought into better balance by a combination of



- 5 -
substantial imports and some lag in demand attributable largely to poor
weather and sharply increased prices. Steel and other metal supplies
also improved during the year, with some increase in (lomestic production
in the case of steel and also because of price resistance and uncertainty
in a sluggish industrial situation.
13.       Last year's balance of payments turned out lo be manageable in
spite of a 47% jump in the import bill. Economies in import volume helped.
More importantly, there was also an increase of 28% in the value of -;:ports.
The main payments support, however, was an increase of about US$1 billion
in external financing, made up of large drawings on the International Mone-
tary Fund including the Fund's Oil Facility, larger aid from the India
Consortium including the World Bank Group, oil purchases on credit, a
million tons of wheat on loan from the USSR, and additional food aid from
several other countries. With all this, in 1974/75, India had to draw on
its gross reserves (US$1,416 million as of March 31, 1974) by only about
US$50 million, but external debt service requirements in the medium term
were increased, as were obligations to the IMF.
14.       This year (1975/76) the economic situation, though still very dif-
ficult, has started much more favorably than last year. With an excellent
spring (rabi) crop, and a favorable summer monsoon, foodgrain production is
confidently predicted to achieve a record of over 110 million tons. Infla-
tion continues to be tightly curbed, and the wholesale price index for July
1975 was actually 2.1% lower than a year earlier. With good rains and greatly
increased coal production, the power situation has improved, and the Govern-
ment's expectation is of 20% growth in power generation over the year. How-
ever, although the performance of several public industries has improved
considerably, demand, particularly for consumer goods, continues to stag-
nate, and the Government's target of 5-6% growth is unlikely to be achieved.
Industrial growth of 3-4% now appears much more likeJy.
15.       Exports in terms of rupees rose by 15% in the first six months
of 1975/76 over the corresponding period of 1974/75. This rise reflects
both the effects of exchange depreciation and significant volume increases.
Despite a continued good export performance, the tracde deficit is likely to
be as much as US$1.8 billion, compared with about US';1.7 billion last year,
and hardly any trade deficit at all in 1972/73, which was before India's
terms of trade worsened. Adding to the 1975/76 trade deficit another US$800
million of payments on external obligations, and tak:ing account also of
probable net invisible receipts, this year's overall balance of payments
deficit seems likely to come to about US$2.4 billion, or about the same level
as last year. These enormous deficits persist in any reasonable calculation
of minimum import requirements of fuel, food, fertilLzer and other essentials,
for which further compression seems hardly feasible, especially with the
expected pick-up of the economy.
16.       Fortunately, nearly half of this year's prospective deficit
(about US$1,155 million) can be covered from gross disbursements of
previously committed foreign aid, including just over a billion dollars
of Consortium aid about evenly divided between bilateral and World Bank



- 6 -
Group sources. Eastern Europe is expected to provide perhaps US$100 mil-
lion, which is down considerably from last year in the absence of further
food assistance from the USSR. India has already drawn US$240 million
from this year's Oil Facility, and can reasonably expect about US$570 mil-
lion from disbursements out of Consortium pledges made in June. This leaves
US$600 million to be financed from other sources, including an inevitable
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves, which stood at US$1,392 m411ion at
August 31, 1975.
17.       To highlight the crucial variables in India's longer-term pay-
ments outlook, the May 1975 economic report contains some projections, for
the 10 years following 1975/76, illustrating India's debt management prob-
lem. Broadly speaking, the conclusion which emerges is that a modest in-
crease in India's import capability - an average of 5.2% per annum after
allowing for inflation - could be achieved, provided: (a) new aid commit-
ments in real terms (including ItF facilities and the aid provided by oil
producers) remain approximately at 1974/75 levels, (b) India's exports
attain an average volume growth of about 8% between 1976/77 and 1985/86,
and (c) the bulk of new aid continues to be provided on concessional
terms. Given the above assumptions, the debt service ratio (expressed as
a percentage of export earnings) would rise from about 19% in 1974/75 to
23% in 1979/80 and then decline slowly. India's external public debt out-
standing and disbursed on March 31, 1974, stood at US$10.2 billion.
18.       A considerably improved export performance, which will require
policy measures to improve incentives, is crucial to a successful develop-
ment effort. To the degree that exports fall short of the 8% growth target,
India would not be able to increase her borrowing to meet a larger balance
of payments deficit; the result would be slower growth throughout the eco-
nomy. Against this background, it is encouraging that the Government is
showing an increased determination to exploit India's export potential.
Many measures have been announced that will make exports both more profit-
able and easier to produce. For example, priority is being given to ex-
porters' need for scarce raw materials; exporters will be protected against
rises in the price of steel that occur after the signing of contracts; pro-
duction for export beyond authorized capacity will be permitted automati-
cally; cash assistance rates will be increased to take fixed costs into
account; and import replenishment licenses will be liberalized.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 75 development
credits to India totalling US$1,436 million and US$3,635 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$715 million has been
repaid, and US$1,559 million was still undisbursed as of October 31, 1975.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of October 31,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 7 -
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$9.6 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.7 million, US$21.2 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of October 31, 1975, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly act:ive in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of OultpUt in the fertilizer
sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises. IDA financing of industrial taw materials and com-
ponents for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active
in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and
railways. Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban
investments have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/]DA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural production through the
provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, command
area development of existing irrigation schemes, and seed production form
an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next years. Special
emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers. Lending in
support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on energy-
related projects. Repeater credits for power and railways have high priority
in this context, and discussions are under way with the Government in an
effort to identify and prepare projects specifically designed to facilitate
coal transport. Lending for fertilizer projects, which has been an import-
ant feature in recent years, is expected to continue t:o occupy a prominent
place in the future program.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especia]ly pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essent:ial element within
the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures.  India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import com-
ponent of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.



- 8 -
24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 28% and 42%,
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1974, the Bank Group's share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 23%, by 1979, it is likely to
account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predomi-
nantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise
slowly. In 1974/75, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - FORESTRY SECTOR
25.       India's forestry resources are substantial. However, the pro-
ductivity of this land is extremely low and much below potential. Nearly
23% of the total land area is classified as forest, yet forestry and log-
ging have provided employment to only 0.2% of the labor force. The con-
tribution of the forestry sector (forestry and logging) to the national
product has traditionally been marginal, in 1972-73 a mere 1.3% of GDP
compared with agriculture which contributed about 45%. Contribution of
the forest sector to exports and foreign exchange earnings have also been
insignificant.
26.       Ninety-five percent (or slightly more than 7 million hectares) of
forests are State-owned. Of this, the major forest classifications are
"Reserve Forests," which comprise about 50% of the forest area, and "Protected
Forests," about 35%, on which local population has limited rights. Although
the terms "Reserve Forests" and "Protected Forests" as well as "Village
Forests," "Unclassified Forests," "Forests In-charge of Revenue Department"
and others are legally defined under the Indian Forest Act, large areas
recorded as forest are under cultivation, scrubland or areas over which the
local population has rights. Thus, the indigenous naturally regenerated
forests are frequently poorly stocked and generally have extremely low
annual incremental growth. Exceptionally, however, some of these natural
forests contain a relatively high volume of standing timber but even in these
instances utilization of the timber has been constrained by inaccessibility
and lack of technology to handle the wide range of presently unmarketable
species of which they are composed. The largest remaining forest areas are
in the higher elevations of the Himalayas, in the northeast region, the
plateau/mountain region of the Central Zone -- in what has come to be called
the "Dome" area (para 30) and the Andaman and Nicobar islands. Even in the
Himalayas and in the Central Zone forest belt there has been some degradation
due to grazing and firewood cutting.
27.       The market for forest products, particularly industrial papers,
packaging, printing and writing papers, is undersupplied. Consumption of
paper has, in fact, declined over the past few years due to the lack of



- 9 -
domestic supply and restrictions on imports imposed because of shortage of
foreign exchange. Unless steps are urgently taken to expand the domestic
supply of forest products, most importantly pulp and paper, these shortages
will continue to constrain economic development. The demand for industrial
wood is estimated to increase threefold by 1990. 1/ This demand cannot be
met from the existing domestic forest resource withoul: a substantial increase
in forest productivity accompanied by a large-scale pLantation prngram of
fast growing species, particularly softwoods. This latter is important since
even an immediate startup of large scale tropical pine plantations would not
meet the expected demand in 1990 for long-fibered material.
28.       In order to meet the pulp and paper deficit most efficiently, the
species and technology most suited for replanting clearfelled areas must be
determined; the very limited trials that have taken place are insufficient
to justify replication on a large scale. The opportunaity cost to the economy
of further delays in the development of appropriate technologies is consider-
able as pressure of demand for forest-based products builds up and forest
resources become depleted. Left unchecked, past trends in the forestry
sector would lead to (a) a disparate forest industries development, producing
at relatively high cost and utilizing only part of the resource potential,
and (b) a continued depletion and degradation of a significant proportion
of the forests, which would then be permanently lost. It is therefore urgent
that trials and studies be started immediately to help launch a sound forestry
development policy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
29.       In 1966, an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program report strongly emphasized
India's need for concentrated supplies of cheap, fibrous raw material and
recommended species trials with eucalyptus and pine as a prerequisite to
the commencement of large scale plantations. In 1972., GOI's National Commis-
sion on Agriculture (NCA) published its report on "Production Forestry - Man-
Made Forests" 2/ and set up guidelines for a drastic change to a more dynamic,
utilization oriented, forestry program and recommended the creation of State
Forestry Development Corporations to achieve this.   The report emphasized
that priority should be given to: (a) increasing prcduction of the pulp and
1/   Professor G.R. Gregory and Mr. E. Susaeta, Forestry and Forest Industries
Sectoral Analysis. Prepared by Staff Members oi. the State Planning Com-
mission and Ford Foundation, December 1971 and NCA Report, 1972.
2/   Interim  report of the National Commission on Agriculture on "Production
Forestry -- Man-Made Forests." GOI, August 1972. This was followed by
reports on Social Forestry, August 1973 and Forestry Research and Educa-
tion, March 1974.



- 10 -
paper industry based on existing resources; and (b) increasing the reforesta-
tion program of fast growing industrial species including pines, to sustain
future production and expansion of pulp/paper and other wood industries. A
Bank forestry survey mission visited India in October/November 1974. It
concluded that the NCA report provides an excellent basis for change-over to
modern commercial forestry and that the report reflects a basic change in
approach at the policy level; however, the mission also found that the State
Forestry Departments and corporations had, for the most part, noL implemented
the NCA recommendations. This was evidenced by project proposals submitted
to the Bank mission which failed to tackle in a major way the need to establish
plantations of quick growing long-fibered species. The proposed technical
assistance project would provide a major thrust towards implementation of
NCA recommendations.
30.       The 1974 Bank survey mission concluded that the Dome area of Central
India, which comprise! some 13,000 km2 of forest in South Bastar, Madhya
Pradesh, and 4,500 km and 2,500 km2 in adjacent Andhra Pradesh and Orissa
respectively, offers the largest potential for future industrial wood supply.
In addition, the soil and climatic conditions over much of the area in the
Bastar district appear to be particularly favorable to the establishment of
tropical conifers after clearfelling. The present growth rate using natural
regeneration in the Bastar forests is some 2 to 3 mJ/ha/year, and includes a
wide range of tree species, some of which are of marginal value. With refor-
estation using fast growing industrial species, the same forest areas would
yield 10 to 15 m3/ha/year of wholly usable wood. This would secure a firm
resource base for proposed industries and support an expansion well beyond
the capacities presently planned, at delivered wood costs which would reflect
substantial savings in logging and transportation. The introduction of man-
made commercial plantations would provide employment for large numbers of
local people in both the forestry and forest industry operations in an area
where alternative employment opportunities are extremely limited. It would
also stabilize forest areas (which are constantly being eroded under the
present extensive low production system), and enable the Bastar forests to
be developed as a major forestry supply area of the country.
31.       The industrial development possibilities in the Bastar District
of Madhya Pradesh have been studied for over a decade and have focused on
the potential for setting up forest based industries, particularly pulp and
paper. In 1973, the Madhya Pradesh Forest Department in conjunction with
Ford Foundation proposed an intensive forest management program for Bastar.
However, major questions related to the resource base, the size and configura-
tion of the pulp/paper mills, markets, the logistics of harvesting large vol-
umes of timber, species and provenance trials and the technical basis for
establishment of large scale pine plantations remained to be answered. In
May 1975, a Bank mission visited India to assist the Government of Madhya
Pradesh (GOMP) prepare a forestry project suitable for external financing
and concluded that, though the potential was great, these problems would
need to be resolved if sound forest and forest industries development in
Bastar were to be achieved. It recommended a technical assistance project
as a necessary prerequisite. Alternacive sources of external financing in
particular UNDP have been explored without success. In August 1975, GOI
requested IDA financing for this purpose, expressing its interest in Bank
Group involvement, at an early stage, in the development of modern forestry
in India.



Project Area
32.       The Bastar District of Madhya Pradesh covers some 3.9 million ha
of which an estimated 2.2 million ha are forest lands, The technical
assistance project would focus on three specific areas in the Bastar Dis-
trict, namely Jagdalpur, Barsur and S.W. Bastar. These have been chosen
as the natural "wood catchment" areas for the supply cof three potential
forest industry sites in Bastar (see map).
33.       Population density is low at 15 persons/km   and 68% of the popu-
lation is tribal 1/. Tribal life is inextricably linked to that of the
forests, used by Tribals for their requirements of fuel, timber fruits,
roots, bamboo and cattle grazing. Their economy is ncot monetized and barter
is the main method of exchange.
34.       An initial inventory of the indigenous forest in the southern
part of the Bastar District was included in PIS. 2/ The remainder of the
District was surveyed by the Madhya Pradesh Forestry Department in 197S-72.
These surveys indicate an average standing volume of 61 m3/ha and 80 m /ha
respectively, composed of sal, teak and some 100 miscellaneous hardwoods.
Because of the lack of infrastructure and markets for miscellaneous hard-
woods and small dimension wood of all species, only about 22 m3/ha (30%
of the resource) is actually marketed from ongoing clearfelling operations.
The remaining 70% is destroyed. The primary objective of any intensive manage-
ment system would be to set up local pulp and paper mills and ancillary in-
dustries to utilize this wood which is presently wasted, by absorption of
a wider range of species in pulp and paper production. for which a technical
base has now been developed, and utilization of the balance in the wood dis-
tillation and carbonization industry.
35.       Two private industrial proposals are in an advanced stage of
formulation. Final feasibility studies are near completion and proposals
for financing are being worked out. One is for a 45,000 ton/year rayon
grade pulpmill at Jagdalpur; the other for a 125,000 ton/year mixed newsprint,
printing and writing paper mill at Barsur. Both are relatively small scale
mills designed within constraints of existing knowledge of local resources
and technologies.
The Project
36.       The objectives of the technical assistance project would be:    to
identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper and related industries;
1/   Tribals are members of India's scheduled tribes.   They are descendants
of the original settlers of India, who lived in i:he forests and remained
undisturbed by the Aryan invasion about 2000 B.C.
2/   Pre-Investment Survey of forest resources carried out by the 1965-70
UNDP/FAO/Special Fund project IND-23.



- 12 
and while these industries are under construction, to develop and explore
satisfactory logging methods, species and planting methods for fast growing
plantations so that, when large scale felling operations begin to supply the
proposed pulpmills, the clear-felled areas can be efficiently logged and
replanted with fast growing industrial plantations.
37.       The proposed technical assistance project would comprise:
i.   a site assessment survey to select suitable areas for
clear-felling and reforestation within the three
catchment areas proposed, having regard to the physical
limitations of the forests, the requirements of tribals,
and to environmental considerations;
ii.   feasibility study to provide a basis for determining the
location, size and configuration of forest industries that
could be established, in addition to the two mills already
proposed, taking into consideration the integration of
tribals in future development;
iii.   a study of Tribals to work out plans to ensure their in-
tegration with future forest and forest industrial develop-
ment;
iv.   research trials (of species, provenances and silvicultural
methods) and pilot plantations to establish the techniques
of large-scale reforestation with fast growing species;
v.   provision of four specialists for forestry operations,
and training of five selected promising local key per-
sonnel by studentships abroad; and
vi.   a pilot/training logging unit to develop suitable systems
to supply the large volumes that would be needed for the
new industries.
38.       The site assessment survey would identify areas suitable for the
development of plantations for fast growing tree species and correlate these
with projected long-term industrial requirements. A detailed survey would be
carried out on sites to be selected on the basis of a first phase preliminary
assessment covering a total area of 500,000 ha.
39.       Prior to the site assessment survey an updating of inventory data
is needed for specific catchment areas to assess probable volumes by species
and log assortment classes for planning the industrial base and harvesting
program. Work has been completed covering about 30,000 ha in each of the
Jagdalpur and Barsur catchment areas. Ilowever, information on the existing
timber resource is not detailed enough and would need to be augmented by
further field survey. This inventory would have to be completed within nine
months of signing of the Madhya Pradesh Agreement (see Sec. 2.02 of the draft
Madhya Pradesh Agreement).



- 13-
40.       The feasibility study would examine the possibilities for industrial
development, in addition to the two mills referred to in para 35. The study
would include a detailed analysis of: the existing resource base, including
topography, climate, land use, and forest inventories; social characteristics
and effects on population of proposed development; iLnfrastructure; harvesting
and transportation methods and requirements; reforestation practices and pro-
posed replanting program; market studies; and evaluation of existing and pro-
posed forest industries. Following a preliminary sludy of utilization alter-
natives, it would develop analyses of alternatives amd propose det&!l.ed or-
ganizational and financial plans. To carry out the feasibility study would
take about 100 man-months of professional consultani: staff and 180 man-months
of counterpart staff and should be completed within 20 months. The study
team would include a sociologist and a social anthropologist. They would
also assist the Tribal study team in finalizing proposals for Tribal develop-
ment to ensure Tribal cooperation and participation in proposed industrial
development plans (para 42). Earth Resources Technology Satellite (ERTS)
imagery of the area is available and would be utilized for the land use
assessment. Draft terms of reference for the study,, which would be undertaken
by internationally recruited consultants, working c:Losely with counterpart
staff have been discussed with GOI and GOMP and are available on request.
An implementation schedule for the study is given in Annex IV. The qualifica-
tions and terms and conditions of employment of the consultants for the fea-
sibility study are subject to approval by the Association (see Sec. 2.02 of
the draft Project Agreement).
41.       As stated in para. 29, one of the main NCJA recommendations was for
the setting up of autonomous forestry development corporations to encourage
the flow of institutional finance to forestry. GOI tax law affecting cor-
porations allows only costs associated with timber removal, such as felling
and minor tracks required for removal, to be deducted as a business expense
from the revenue from sale of timber; hence the after tax surplus available
for reforestation and investment in fixed capital (e.g. road and buildings)
is small. Usual practice would allow the establishEient costs of reforestation
including such costs as the amortization of road construction expenditure
to be offset against the revenues from felling of the existing crop. Since
the revenue from sale of the existing timber stock would determine the cash flow
and hence the availability of finance for potential projects unless tax laws are
changed or other provisions for finance are made, it: would be difficult for MPDFC
to finance investments identified under the project.    As GOI shares the view that
the most efficient and appropriate way to ensure the availability of funds to
MPDFC would be to amend the tax regulations, it has already taken adequat steps
and the procedure to introduce the tax amendment is well underway. In addition,
meanwhile, the draft Development Credit Agreement provides that GOI would take
action satisfactory to the Association to ensure the financial viability of the
Madhya Pradesh State Forest Development Corporation (MPFDC) (para 52), the unit
in charge of reforestation programs in Madhya Pradesh (see Sec. 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Study of Tribals:   The impact on tribal life of large scale forest and
forest industrial development from 1980 onwards would be significant. To select
specific areas for intensive management, a balance must be struck between the
claims for industrial wood production and the customary rights of local users



- 14 -
to secure the active participation and support of the Tribals. Complementary
schemes to create employment opportunities for Tribals and bring under controlled
management the "Nistarill forests (forests in which Tribals have concessions)
selected for the local supply of forest products, would be necessary to preserve
the Reserved Forests for commercial timber production. A State inter-departmental
study team would be set up to prepare a development plan for the integration of
tribals in future projects. Funds have been provided under the project to meet
incremental expenses. It is estimated that approximately 110 man-months would be
required to execute the study. A committee would be set up to -oordinate the
feasibility and tribal studies (para 52). On this basis the State would strengthen
present or develop new institutions and would initiate an integratt2 development
program.
43.       Research Trials:  There is now in India no established technical
basis for large scale reforestation with fast growing species. To overcome
this constraint, sEecies, provenance and silviculture trials, with the
emphasis on pines (mainly Pinus Caribbaea) but also including other fast
growing species of Eucalyptus and Gmelina, and pilot plantations, would be
carried out giving a total planted area of 3,100 ha by the end of year 5.
Provision has been included for periodic visits by consultants in nursery
and plantation establishment. Species and provenance trials would be replicated
in all the major site types in the three catchment areas and, after five years,
would be expected to provide reliable evidence on which to base species/
provenance selection for large scale plantings. These would test for differ-
ent methods of establishment especially land clearing and weeding, and put
into practice, on a field operational scale, the results from the silviculture
trials, including nursery techniques. By year 5, satisfactory techniques for
plantations establishment should have been established and, in conjunction
with the results of the species/provenance trials, should be replicable on
a large scale in all three catchment areas.
44.       It is critical to the success of the trials that tree seed im-
portation be controlled by the MPFDC and direct contact maintained between
MPFDC and the supplier since the past method of centralized seed importation
has resulted in loss of identity of the seed source and downgrading of seed
viability because of improper storage.   SPFDC would be allowed to import seed
directly from suppliers (see Sec. 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
45.       Forestry Operations Specialists and Studentships:   Because of the
complexity of the technical problems of establishing fast growing species in
the district, and also because of potential difficulties MPFDC may face in
acquiring adequate supplies of tree seed in the largely unorganized world
market, provision is included for a specialist in research/provenance trials
to assist in species selection, seed procurement and development of silvi-
cultural methods, and for a specialist in plantations establishment to advise
on pilot plantations establishment techniques. These two specialists will
visit the project each year for a period of one month. In addition, provision
is included for five studentships to enable selected project staff to visit
on-going projects of a similar technical complexity in other countries. The
logging operation to be undertaken when the pulpmills become operational will
require substantial changes in the present low productivity methods in order
to meet the large annual volumes of timber to be harvested. To assist the
pilot/training logging unit to develop suitable logging methods and build up
a nucleus of skilled operators, provision is included for a specialist in



- 15 -
logging and forest road construction to advise the project staff in critical
years of project implementation, and the full-time employment, for two years,
of a winch-lorry specialist to instruct staff and labor in this method of
logging.
46.       The pilot/training logging unit, supported l)y an adequate workshop,
would become operational in year 2 and would be used to find out the most
suitable logging technique when substantially increased volumes oi timber
are logged from 1980 onwards. In year 1 (1976), while the unit is b'eing
established, contractor lorries would be used. SpeciEically, the unit
would concentrate on log extraction from stump to roadside and truck load-
ing, since these are the two operations in the present all-manual system
which have excessively low labor productivity.
47.       Project phasing would be, in summary:
Prolect Years
Unit  1976  1977   1978   1979    1980   Total
Research Trials               (ha)    37   34     45     26      15      157
Pilot Plantations             (ha)   100  200    400    800   1,600    3,100
Pilot Logging Unit
Clearfelling - mechanical   (ha)   150  225    225    225     225    1,050
- manual       (ha)   150   175    575  1,375  1,375    3,650
Site Assessment Survey      (000 ha)
Preliminary                        500   -      -     -       -        500
(out of which detailed)            (-)  (100)  (100)  (100)  (100)    (400)
The initial implementation schedule, which was reviewed with the Borrover, is
attached as Annex V.
48.       Environment: Because of the environmental impact of forests on
general climate, groundwater and flood control, and the possible impact
on Tribals and wildlife of large-scale replacement of natural forest with
monoculture, there is need for continuous review of the development pro-
posals so that all environmental aspects can be taken into account when
project proposals are put into operation. The State and Central Depart-
ments of Science and Technology are fully equipped to look into these
problems, but currently they only examine proposals when fully formulated.
Under the project, GOMP would establish a committee comprising MPFDC, the
Madhya Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation and the State and Central
Departments of Science and Technology which would see to it that specific
proposals for future projects can be evaluated and environmental considera-
tions taken into account while still in the formulatiLon stage (see Sec. 2.04
of the draft Madhya Pradesh Agreement).
Costs and Financing
49.       The estimated total project cost is US$8.21 million equivalent
with taxes, or US$7.55 million equivalent net of taxes, including US$2.0
million (24% and 26% respectively) in foreign exchange. The principal



- 16 -
cost components net of taxes and contingencies are pilot plantations ($3.3
million), a feasibility study for industrial forestry operations ($1.0 mil-
lion), a pilot/training logging unit ($0.4 million) and research trials ($0.2
million). The balance is made up by the study on Tribals ($0.1 million), for-
est operations specialists and studentships ($0.1 million), a site assessment
survey ($0.2 million), and physical and price contingencies ($2.2 million).
Physical contingencies at 10% have been included for appropriate project
components.   Price contingencies (on an annual rate basis)   have been
calculated for civil works, equipment, and technical assistance res1_ctively
as 16/, 12% and 10% for 1975; 14%, 10% and 10/ in the first year of project
implementation; 12%, 8% and 10% in the second, third and fourth years;
and 10%, 7% and 10% in the fifth years, The proposed credit of US$4.0 million
would cover 53% of total technical assistance cost net of taxes. The Govern-
ments of India and of Madhya Pradesh together would finance the balance of
47%. GOI would pass on US$3.9 million from the proceeds of the credit to
NPFDC as a grant, because the project is composed of research and development
components. GOI would channel the reuLaining US$0.1 million (for the study
on Tribals) to GOMP in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements
for the financing of State development projects. The proceeds of the proposed
credit would be used to finance: overseas consultants, studentships, and
local travel for the study on Tribals (US$1.50 million), seed and equipment
(US$0.62 million), civil works (US$0.55 million), incremental local salaries
and wages (US$1.1 million), and contingencies (US$0.23 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       The selection of a firm of internationally recruited consultants
would be according to IDA guidelines. Procurement of the small amount of
heavy equipment for the pilot plantations and the demonstration winch and
spade anchor for the pilot logging operation (US$320,000) would be subject
to international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Tree
seed (US$20,000) would be purchased directly from specific suppliers as they
would be required to test different provenances of species. Minor equipment
for research trials, pilot plantations, the pilot/training logging unit and
the site assessment survey (US$0.65 million) would be purchased in small and
diversified lots over the project period, would not be suitable for ICB, and
would be purchased locally following prudent shopping. Civil works (US$1.22
million) would also be dispersed in time and place and would be unsuitable
for international bidding. It would be subject to local bidding or built on
force account according to procedures acceptable to IDA. Any funds in the
credit account after completion of the project would be cancelled.
51.      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over five years.    IDA would
disburse for the following items against appropriate documentation:
a.    100% of consultant expenditures, studentships and tribal
study expenses excluding local staff salaries and wages;
b.    100% of foreign exchange expenditures on seed and
equipment;



- 17 -
c.   50% of expenditures on locally procured equipment,
and civil works; and
d.   50% of project staff salaries and wages other than
for the tribal study.
Organization and Management
52.       The technical assistance project would be under the direc- super-
vision of a project manager responsible to the general manager of MPFDC.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that the project manager had been
appointed. The project manager's qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of service would have to be acceptable to the Association (see
Sec. 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Sec. 2.02 of
the draft Project Agreement). The MPFDC was incorporated in 1975 with
management staff seconded from the forestry department with the objective
of managing selected forest areas on a commercial basis. This is one of many
forestry development corporations being set up throughout the country in
response to the NCA recommendation (para 29). A project unit would be set
up within the MPFDC under the project manager, and all staff assigned to the
technical assistance project would be employed full-time on the project.
Locally employed specialists would be in charge of the research trials and
pilot plantations. Also within MPFDC, a logging unit: would be set up. It
would be directed by a manager who would be appointed on the basis of his
knowledge of the logging industry, ability to operate a workshop and provide
in-service training and who would report to the Project Manager. A committee
would be set up at the State level to review and monitor project progress.
It would include specialists and representatives of GOI. The committee would
also be responsible for coordinating the feasibility and tribal studies. The
establishment of the committee would be a condition of effectiveness (see
Sec. 2.03 of the draft Madhya Pradesh Agreement and Sec. 5.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
53.       The present pattern of forestry staff employment is characterized
by relatively frequent transfers between geographic locations within a similar
job function and also transfers between job functions. The implementation
and management of the project would require trained staff for long periods,
in contrast to the present practice of staff rotation between posts at
relatively frequent intervals.  GOI and COIP have indicated that staff would
be appointed for the term of the project on the basis of their professional
and technical ability, and that suitable arrangement:3 would be made so that
career prospects are not jeopardized by prolonged service with the project.
Project Risks
54.       Given its pioneer character, the project entails a number of
rislo. Suitable coordination and monitoring will be essential for obtaining
quick and reliable results. Particular care has therefore been given to
the organizational set-up of the project: the appointment of the project
manager (the key person for project implementation) and the establishment



- 18 -
of the coordination committee (essential for monitoring progress of the
project and for coordinating project components), would both be conditions
of effectiveness. The obvious risk that fire would destroy the pilot forests
is minimized by the inclusion of fire breaks in the plantations. A major
risk that may affect the projects expected to follow from the feasibility
study would be suspicion and lack of cooperation from the Tribals in the
project area.  In order to minimize this risk, the extensive study on Tribals
(para 42) has been included in the proposed technical assistance project.
On balance, the risks seem manageable in relation to the size of tL- project.
They are worth taking in the pursuit of fast development in the promising sector
of industrial forestry throughout India.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Madhya Pradesh State Forest Development Corporation Limited, the draft Madhya
Pradesh Agreement between the Association and the State of Madhya Pradesh,
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Articles V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft Resolution approving
the proposed development credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
56.       Features of the draft agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 39, 40, 41, 44, 48 and 52 of this report. Conditions of
effectiveness would be that the project monitoring and coordinating committee
has been established and that the project manager has been appointed on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association (see para 52 of this report).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 16, 1975



SOINSTEt DATA - INDIA                                  gI
aim.                                               POPULATION                                 ISINSITI
23,280,1,3 ~'~ 2                                     P777?-Ulion (eid-1.973)
350    Per ief2nf ..able land
SOCIAL INDICATORSIhi
Refereece Countries
ON? PER CAPITA 05  (ATLAS RASIS) aI                             *.              0 Li8 /a                    220    ~   2,600C)
DESOIRA-PRIC
'Tm&l  rrthtb .te (perocthead)                                 38             38  2 d          8 A 4j      1,5         13.9f
Crude dean  athe..(par thnsu.")                                13                             L 6,,  9 I   12 L.      12.07f
infant eartality rate (per th ousan.d live births)            139L      120-ito    d         .             80         17.57
Lif  epectantcy at birth (years)                            hi i           50              48           58            72
Gross reproduction rate/                                      27 LL.A       2.9              3.2          3.3          1.3
Pnpiletlnn growth rate /37                                    2.3           2.3~                          3__0
Pemn,latinn growth rate ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- urban     3/hkI
0-6h                                                       6,              0f.,c                       13*         2
1561                                                          687               f            3           5ta42
68 end cop                                                                      f3,3
Accoovpr depenenc    rati. L                                   10                                                      0
Urban Ppaeti-n ae percoot of total11/1                                       20 /nk           La /I        32/co        /8c.
Fanily Planning:  N. of acooptore n-slati-s (thoce.         2007?           .                175          609
No. of ...re (% of eurried -asen)           *              ..
T.trIib.r froru   (thousands)                             l82,0X oLi    221,0(0/,        10,1)0 /      13,0         257
Percntage aeplcyod in agriculture                            73            I 1 /od,                                2,7563
Per-ntaga uneeploy.d                                        3.23/an
Peren..t of7 ctial jocos    receive.d by blbst 5%              215?           2 /.                          25  c         8  r.
Percent of ati-ca1 jocose r...loed by highant 20%              82  p          3 7?                         815/,        39/r.,t
Percent of ntiona   iucoe, received by lowest 20%               L$                            .             1 L.x        6 7Et
Percent of ctua.inoso received by lwnot 4,0%                   n?            13 7?                         1  5,t1 
MinIIIt8TIPOF LAND88 OWME8SHIP
%  ae  ytp710  of ownrs
4 cone-d by ena1leet 10% of -enrs                              ..
PeuatnPer phnoa                                        ,800 7        6,00           27, A_         1,. I
PPuruato    e   orin    esn5,1o                                           5,8111            ,2    ?     11             3227,j
Ppulation per hospital bed                                 3607           ,2/.             .17           8   ZJ.      n 
per capita celein supply u % of reqirenets /                   95            21              ?33          01125
Per capita proteIn supply, tota  (gross per dayjLn             85            13              13           tI            90
Of hlch, ol,aland      ml"a                                  19/5          16 /el          tt7?         227           57
Death rate i-k yearn /7                                        .             ..                             17?        0.77
EDUCATION
Adj..t.d /8 prinary school no   letrtio                        1.2            79 cc           71          12             0
Adjusted 7E -sordary   chool enrufleent ratio                 10)            28              12L7
Tears of schooling provided, first and secod leve              12            12              12          1io2
Vocational e-rll,eect as % of s-. school .nr.lleect             L             6 /1 5                      1    d uc      5
Adult lit.racy rate %                                          2l7?g.        36  S.,6          L/c.as     12 ~duo       97
HOUSIDI
Avera ge Nu. of persons per roa  (urban)                      2.6 /ij.,k   2.8 /c.aj,.k    -             .             2  >*
Percen.t of -eopied unite without piped notrs.                                                            66 /ad.a1
Acoese to e-leticity (As 4 of total populatio-)....                                                       23 /p~
Percet of oral pepulat ice  -onostod to e1ootricity           ..                             .6               a
CONISUMTION
Ra-dio r   ..eosr  Per 1200 poP,latio-                          5            23 LILL0.L6                               612 /a
Pa..cngn  care per 1000 popaitin                             I2.I
Electric pece  con-ptlco (Akl, p-c)                            L                              2            02/u      6273157
NncopI_tc     cptuco P.c. kg Per y.ar                        0.2            0128a                                     ,28.
Noins,  PigELo refer either to tie intent p-riod   or to            . acout of avrnntlepeoos,bdnt,s,and
th. 1ite     yearn  Latent period, refer i prinilpir to            distribati-n by age ana sxonaialpopulations.
the yearn1956-60 or 1966-70; the latrut yearn i,, pri-         /6  Protein standards (requirwes)for all countries an eatab-
ciple. to 1960 cad 1970.                                           liehed by USDA Econoelc Reneazob Serbse provide for a einleua
Li The Per Cepit   GNOP ...ti-tsin at an-int priccc fur            aic-cac   of hO gram  of total protein Per day, ana 20 green of
yc-r  ctbcr tion 11/0, calulte   by                              Leaucsno aial and pales protein, of hibih 10 g :rasheb1d,be animal
technlqur an ito 1972 World iB-, Atlon.                        protein. These etndarde are eu-obt loe       th-c hba.eof 70
L2 A-ernge nib-r of d-ughtor- per -ua     of reprd-cti-r           grams of total protein an  23 gram  of anioa  protein *0 an
age.                                                           average for tie eor1d, propoond by FA0 to the Third World Pond
'a  Phpulotln growth intro are for the d-cdr- endIn,g In            Surey.
1960 and 1970.                                             /7 low   studies bhs  euggesed tiat crude death rates of children
Lb.Ratio of pop..lac     under 15 and 68 ad -0cr to popala-        .4ee 1 throagh 4 nay be osed cafirst appronimatico iodc of
tion of agro 15-61i for age depdenoy ratin end to labor         -aletritic..
forc  of egos 15-66 forecsui     dependency retic.          IN  Pestage enrolled oforee;riu         popolati..onf enhoi age
/5  FA0   feroc   etandarde represent poysiologlcaj re-             as1f toed for sar neatry.
qnulra-at  for.- oral eimity end health, tkliog
~j 1972;   /b Ete-tirn    -nnn  -cerge for 1963-6L, bae.d creouin. of the naical       oaule nroey;    Ic  1971;   /d  Enitcae;
7  96 -70;   If  1973;   Z?   intinatod anua   average for 1951-61 hone d -n aalysie ef d-ecrocial cenS;     /h  I98I-60;
R) Nto- in rotinae honed on birth. cbhtai-d by appli-tiuc of "reveres -rei-l' nethod to reulsof1951 end 1961
cen-er;     47?  1960-72;  7?  For tie definitica of urban.. 000N     .~ss gm   Zapoo    17, p. iSO;     LI  Nunioipniiro,
regeccycapitalo and cusP placre with urban charecirriotice, emolading Went Irlen;Lp  ForF-hnhdofifititi.ofourban,
oe3  surachi learboo    1973, p. 127;  /. Area oceelfiso an urban fnr loca     geoco-ot pu-ponee, i.e. couty
horaghe, onicipel b.oroghs end urban dietricte;      Lo  1966;   /P  luiue     al  indicidoale  h. participate In any
type ofe -cccai  activity;   jl AIl e-ticate of lahor force ic age group 15-59. 1881 rpert glorn        figere of 180.0
nillico hu..ed cc the 1921 pupo1laicn cese     The differeocee is doe to chahgen ic the definitioc of a-orer      In, the,
1971 ce-n-, prr.... nopre ciasn.ifiod colY on us. banl  of their naia ailtn.This led to thn          ocuiocf -e..reIi
eteg-rice, ouch an boun...i-ee;  7?   Households;   La  1967-68;   Lt. 1968;    /.  1962;   7?  Pepe-cI in g-ver,r,eot
osrin-  oc1y;   7   1987;   7?1969;     a? Ioniding rura     ho-pitaln;   L. Gliovero,et hospital eniabliehoante only;
/pp  1960-62;L661969-30;  /ac ~Esicuci Wthich ioludes -nerege otudenL.;  lad  1967;    /a-  Nci i-cidiog cortina
shortterncoupsc;  /f  1965;   Z.g  1961;   Lh    PopuIutlon of 10 Yearn and coop ba-d an coo p.rc-t oa.pin data
of i971;   1si  i y-ar    and ove;    /ai, beta refer to h-ueholde;    /          etu tan-d on -nplr tabulatio   of cnu
colu-;     /18    Onto refer to hi...eoldn to co-vetilocal dunilingn;   am  1oporto only;   /un  eRgi--crdoppiic-ctu
Sic end populnti-c rube Indo-in a r.lrvn-, ref--c         -c-try, e1Lhtuorgitc  in. i,, top p-r cupita --c-e grou.p ica
Iodiu
2hr Urld Kiugdoco  . bun  -o -rirciv   b-e...ee of tIh. inpor-tac  rub  of public  rcc Loin - prior   end the highly
d,vccped nyot-i of occi1 crIfar.
RK  duly 23, i2r'



ANNEX I
Page 2
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972 4 US 5 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73.h                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US 8 Bln.      %                    1961/62-1965/66   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1972/73
GNP at Mlarket Prices               60.0      100.0                        3.1               4.3               1.0
Gross Domestic Investment           lO.4       17.2
Gross National Saving                9.8       16.2
Current Account Balance             -0.6        1.0
Resource Gap                         Q-3       -0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)        Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US S Bln.              %           Min.     %          USS     of National Average
Agriculture                         23.1                46.6         130.0  72 1          178            65
Industry                            10.1                20.4          20.2  11 2         500            182
Services                            16.4                33.0          30.2  16.7         543            198
Total/average                       h9.6               100.0         180.4 100.0          275           100
GOVERNMENT FINANiCE                    General Government                       Central Government
(Rs. Bln)         % of GDP                 (Rs. Bln)          % of GDP
1973/74      1973/74  1971/72-1973/74      1973/74      1973/74   1971/72-1973/74
Current Receipts                88.11        15.2         15.8            50.59        8.7            9.2
Current Expenditures            88.89        iLd          16.0            49.11         8.4           9.1
Current Surplus/Deficit         -0.78        -0.1         -0.2              1.48       0.3            0.1
Capital Expenditures l          27.70         4.8          5.2             20.99        3.6           3.9
External Assistance (net)        3.93         0.7          0.8              3.93        0.7           0.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                     1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73    1973/74  September 1973  September 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quaoi iUoney              61.4      93.3     105.7     122.4     l15.2      169-4       155.1         177.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector        40.8      52.4      56.9      69.0      82.5       93.5        91.2         102.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector       28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4       76.0      85.6        79.3          90.5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                  Olarch 1974      'farch 19 5
Money and Dluasi Money as 4 of GDP  24.0      23.6      24.3       26.3      27.9      26.8
'Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                 131.6     171.6     181.1     188.4     207.1      2,4.0      283.6          308.5
Arnual percentage char:ges in:
Nlnolesale Price Index               7.7       3.8       5.5       4.0        9.9      22.7                       8.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector        12.9       1.5       8.6      21.3       19.6      13.3                      11.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector       12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6       18.0      12.6                      13.5 L
i The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 Norld Atlas.   All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailirg
during the period covered.
Ij Estimates.
c/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
v All loans and advanoes to third parties have been netted out.
Credit to Government, as on Mlarch 21, 1975.
Credit to Conmercial Sector, as on March 21, 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS         1271172   1972/73   1973/74    1974/75W      1 MERCHUNDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971/72-1973/74)
7  Million   US   8    )                                        US 5 Mln.
Exports of Goods             2,160     2,558     3,197     5,900          Jute tUnufacturers        324         12
Imports of Goods           -2,572     -2,682    -3,952    -5,715          Tea                      195           7
Trade Balance              -   412    -  124    -  765    -1,815          Cottor, Textiles          186          7
NFS (net)                   -   48    -  146      n.a.      n.a.          Iron (ire                151           6
Resource Gap                -  460    - 270       n.a.       n.a.         Engineering Goods         187          7
Others                  1 592         61
Interest Payments (net)     -  230    -  237      n.a.       n.a.         Total                   2,63         100
Other Factor Paeyments(net) -    7    -    8      n.a.       n.a.
Net Transfers                  358    -   50      n.a.       n.a.
Balance on Current Account               6        n.a.       n.a          EXTERIIAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1974
Offizial Aid                                                                                                 US S Mln.
Disbursements            1,203       955     1,249h1  1,860           Repayable in foreign currency       11,612
Amortization             -385       -408      -692-    -750           Repayable through export of goods      784
Transactions with IMF           -         -         75       515          Total Outstanding and Disbursed     12,396
All Other Items               -254        52       239       150
Increase in Reserves (-)      -225       -34      -106       40           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974/75      19.0  percent
Gross Reserves (end year)    1,277     1*311      10417    1,377
Net Reserves (end year)      14277     1,311      1,342      769          IBRD/]DA LENDING, APRIL 30, 1975    (us 5 rNln.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                             IBED      IDA
Imports                        262       265       719     1,375          Outstanding and Disbursed     455    2,102
of which: Petroleum          262       265       719     1,575          Undisbursed                   307    1 ,291
Fxports                         15        41        20      n.a.          Outstanding including         762    3,393
of which: Petroleum            9        37        16     n.a.             Undisbursed
RATE Wr nlXCHANIE
Prior tc mid-December 1971   : US S 1.00 = Rs 7.5                         After end June 1972  : Floating Rate
Rs   1.00 = US 8 0.133333
Spot Fate MIarch 31, 1975:
Mid-December 1971 to         : US S 1.00 = Re 7.27927                                   approx. US$ 1.00 = Rs   7.72
end June 1972                Rs   1.00 = US$0.137376                                 approx. Rs 1.00 = USS 0.1295
,/ Estimated.
h/ Includes interest and hence is equal to debt service.
_/ Net of IMF drawings outstanding as of end December 1974.
i/ Amortization and interest payments (S 750 million) as a
percentage of merchandise exports.
i/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange
rates and IUF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside
front cover of this report or in notes to individual table.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                                    US$ Million-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower               Purpose                    (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IM    Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                           1,032.5
34 Credits fully disbursed                                                    1,841.9
614-IN         1969     India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0       -        7.3
176-IN         1970     India    Kadana Irrigation                      -         35-0
203-IN         1970     India    Punjab Agricultural Credit             -         27,5    24.6
226-IN         1971     India    Andhra Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -         24.4    )4.9
242-IN         1971     India    Power Transmiscion II                  -         75.0    46.7
249-IN         1971     India    Haryana Agricultural Credit            -         25.0     9.7
250-IN         1971     India    Tamil Nadu Agr. Cr.                    -         35.0    10.0
264-IN         1971     India    Cochin II Fertilizer                   -         20.0     5.5
267-IN         1971     India    Wheat Storage                          -          5.0     3.8
268-IN         1971     India    Pochampad Irrigation                   -         39.0     3.7
789-IN        1971      ICICI    Industry DFC IX                       60.0       -        5.5
278-IN         1972     India    Mysore Agricultural Credit             -         40.0    20.4
279-IN         1972     India    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion         -         10.0     1.
293-IN         1972     India    Maharashtra Agr. Cr.                   -         30.0     8.1
294-IN         1972     India    Bihar Agricultural Markets             -         14.0    14.0
312-IN         1972     India    Population                             -         21.2    15.6
342-IN         1972     India    Education                              -         12.0    11.
356-IN         1972     India    IDBI                                   -         25.0    23.0
357-IN         1973     India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion            -         58.o    18.7
377-IN         1973     India    Power Transmission III                 -         85.0    82.9
378-IN         1973     India    Mysore Agricultural Markets            -          8.0     R.0
902-IN         1973     ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0       -       25.7
390-IN         1973     India    Bombay Water 3upply                    -         55.0    51.3
391-IN         1973     India    Madhya Pradesh Agr. Cr.                -         33.0    18.1
392-IN         1973     India    Uttar Pradesh Agr. Cr.                 -         38.0    26.3
403-IN         1973     India    Telecommunications V                   -         80.0    61.2
427-IN         1973     India    Calcutta Urban Development             -         35.0    2)4.7
440-IN         1973     India    Bihar Agricultural Credit               -        32.0    24.9
456-IN         1974     India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing        -         13.0    13.0
481-IN         1974     India    Trombay IV                             -         50.0    46.6
1011-IN         1974     India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0       -       44.6
482-IN         1974     India    Karnataka Dairy                        -         30.0    30.0
502-IN         1974     India    Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -         83.0    6h.0
520-IN         1974     India    Sindri Fertilizer                      -         91.0    86.0
521-IN         1974     India    Rajasthan Dairy                        -         27.7    27.7
522-IN         1974     India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -         16.4    16.h
526-IN         1975     India    Drought Prone Areas                    -         35.0    35.0
1079-IN         197'     India    IFFCO Fertilizer                     109.0       -      108.8
528-IN         1975     India    Industrial Imports X                   -        200.0    45.4
1097-IN         1975     India    Industry DFC XI                      100.0       -      .99-9
532-IN         1975     India    Godavari Barrage Irrigation            -         45.0    45.0
540-IN         1975     India    ARC Credit                             -         75.0    75.0
541-IN         1975     India    West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project          -         34.0    34.0
562-IN         1975     India    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD           -         24.0    2h.0
572-IN         1975     India    Rural Electrification                  -         57.0    57.0.
582-IN         1975     India    A&i1ways Aill                          -        110.0   108.2
585-TY        1975      Tndia    ',ttar Pradesh Water Lupply                     40.0'    LO.0
Total                                                                i,430.5  3,635.1
of which has been repaid                                          701.3     136
Total now outstanding                                                  735.2  3,621.
Amount sold                        111.5
of which has been repaid      111*5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                         735.2  3,621.5
Total undisbursed (including*)                                         292.0  1,267.0   1,559.0
Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNIEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of October 31, 1975)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                 Company                        Loan       Equity       Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5         -           1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9         -          0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4         -           1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2         -          0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3         1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8         0.4         1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd,,            11.8        1.0        12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                 1.0        0.3         1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                    1.0        0.1          1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9        11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8        18.9
TOTAL                               43.C'        8.8        51.8
Less:     Sold                            6.C0        1.6         7.6
Repaid                          9.6         -           9.6
Cancelled                       6.2        0.7          6.9
Now Held                       21.2         6.5        27.7
Undisbursed                     9.5         -           9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 o_ 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,559.0 million as of October 31, 1975, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16. 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; USS100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 789-IN is fully com-
mitted; disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program. Bids have also
been cleared for special drilling rigs to complete the land development com-
ponent of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to infonr the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them.  They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 mi]lion credit of
February 9, 1970; Effectlive Date: JulX 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below th_ dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, lartd-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. Tne
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were mrLde. These will not
affect the economic justification of thie project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in ifuly 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date:   November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, hampered progress. As a result, construction of
the main canals has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely
to delay the introduction of irrigation to over 40%0 cf the project area.
Since the end of 1974, all material shortages have been removed and progress
has been satisfactory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land
development, however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project area. Government is aware of the inadequacy of
the operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for a
Command Area Development Project, to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. This project was appraised in
August 1975, as a major component of the proposed Anclhra Pradesh Composite
Irrigation and CAD Project, which is scheduled for Board presentation early
in calendar year 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 19BU
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 250     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr. No. 391     Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392     Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) Project; US$75.0
million credit of April, 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 5,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-i:erm credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported
tractors, minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of these
credits started slowly. So far as the minor irrigation components were
concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the inst:Ltutional require-
ments, in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and
lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assess-
ing groundwater availability. These constraints have been overcome and dis-
bursements are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following changes
in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were originally
appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well as imported
models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The Execu-
tive Directors approved this request in December 1973 amd those credits which
have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor procurement
is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation nationwide of
the previous program of agricultural credit projects, wrhich were confined
to individual states. ARC will continue to act as the financial intermedi-
ary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
This project originally consisted of construction of ten 10,000-
ton capacity godowns and ten 20,000-ton silo units, engineering and consult-
ing services and an All-India Grain Storage Study. Howrever, a July 1974
feasibility study for silos indicated that due to subst:antial cost increases,
particularly in steel, cement and other materials, the cost of constructing
silos, which represented the bulk of total project cost:s, would be about
double the original estimates. Also, because the increase in demand for
foodgrains in India has exceeded the increase in foodgrains supply, the
use of silos for buffer stock storage has shifted to their use as bulk
grain receiving, seasonal storage and dispatch facilitiles. The Food
Corporation of India (FCI), SIDA and IDA have thus agreed on a redesign
of the silo component that would provide about half the original 200,000
tons of silo storage in five units and, in addition, two to four bulk grain
receiving stations and would also avoid an overrun in project cost. The
economic rate of return of this revised component is about 15%, slightly
more than half the return estimated at the time of original appraisal. In
order to allow sufficient time to complete construction and disbursements
of the silo program, the project closing date has been extended by three
years. The FCI has completed a contract for construction of the silo
foundations at two sites. A tender has been offered for foundations at
three sites. Tenders have been cleared for a part of the equipment. The
godown component has been fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain
Storage Study is progressing and the staff training program has been planned
in detail and is to be implemented soon. Project implementation is now pro-
gressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Clrsing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises roads, cold
storage, juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project has
encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical problems, and
implementation has fallen behind schedule. A recent supervision mission
has recommended remedial action, including certain project revisions to
bring it in line with managerial and technical capabilities. Although
the project would be scaled down in some respects, project cost would not
be altered, since there has been a substantial escalation in prices of
equipment since appraisal. Disbursements should be completed by the pres-
ent closing date. Government's agreement to the mission's recommendations
is currently being sought.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in mate-
rial supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local supply
were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers and
imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated leadtime required.
Revised disbursement schedules for these two credits are now expected to
be met.
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered, and there are likely to be substantial cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.0 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 279    Gorakhpur Fertilizer Project; US$10.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Effective Date: ApriL 5, 1972; Closing
Date: March 31, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; U!$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. The Gorakhpur project is expected to be
commissioned late in 1975. Engineering work, procurement and site construc-
tion for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily, but the
project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment prices.
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project completion
may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected delivery
times for critical equipment. Engineering design ancl procurement for the
Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO) project has been
delayed by about six months as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel
oil to naphtha.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
Of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Market construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit was designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The building program will be largely completed as
scheduled in March 1976.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve by
FY1976 in line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of this
credit.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity.   The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. Project construction is proceeding and most
major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory,
but major rate increases will be necessary starting in 1976.
Cr. No. 528    Tenth Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 14, 1975; Effective Date: March 31, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 14, 1975, for the initial
tranche of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on March 7, 1975.
By the end of December 1975, disbursements had reached US$154.6 million.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project was rather slow during
the first construction season (1973/74) in view of the reduction in overall
funding of the CMDA program and of organizational problems, but project im-
plementation and credit disbursements have now improved. However, project
costs have increased considerably, especially for subprojects in the water
supply and sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project
size to funding available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is
expected to be completed by May 1977, six months behind the original sched-
ule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize



ANNEX II
Page 12
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
This project will help to increase employment and production in
order to improve income distribution for weaker sections of the population
in six districts selected for intensive assistance. A project review mission
has just returned and has reported that despite the project's unusual com-
plexity, most project components are proceeding well.
Cr. No. 572     Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975: Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 582     Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million, credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date
September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 585     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
January 26, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India, acting by its President.
Amount:                       US$4.0 Million.
Terms:                        Standard.
Project Description:          The project provides over a five-year period
technical assistance to enable the Borrower
and the State of Madhya Pradesh to develop
and prepare wood processing schemes based
on the forest resource in the Bastar dis-
trict of Madhya Pradesh. The project would
comprise a major industrial feasibility study
to provide the basis for determining the loca-
tion, size and configuration of forest indus-
tries that could be established and would
include a program of research trials, pilot
operatioas and studies to solve the technical,
economic, environmental and sociological
problems that would arise from large scale
clearfelling and reforestation.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost: -                              Local      Foreign      Total
-(in '000 US$)-------
Feasibility Study           860         815        1,675
Study on Tribals            100          -           100
Research Trials             206          25          231
Pilot Plantations         2,950         337        3,287
Forest Operations
Specialists and
Studentships               13         111          124
Pilot Logging/Training
Unit                      365          54          419
Site Assessment Survey      137          35          172
Sub-Total            4,631       1,377        6,008
Physical Contingencies      131          44          175
Price Contingencies       1,498         529        2,027
Total Project Cost        6,260       1,950        8,210
Financing Plan:
(in '000 US$)
(a) Components Net of Taxes
GOI and GOMP                  3,501)
IDA                           4,00)
Sub-Total                7,551)
(b) Taxes
MPFDC (to be
compensated by GOI)           660)
8,2110
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY      FY       FY      FY      FY      FY
1976    1977     1978    1979    1980    1981
Annual               .2      1.0      .8      .4      .6     1.0
Cumulative           .2      1.2    2.0      2.4     3.0     4.0
1/   Including taxes.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement:                   The selection of consultants (100 man-months
for the feasibility study) would be accord-
ing to IDA guidelines. Procurement of the
small amount of heavy equipment for the pilot
plantation and the demonstration winch and
spade anchor for the pilot logging operation
would be subject to international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Tree seeds would not be suitable for ICB and
would be purchased directly from specific
suppliers as they would be required to test
different provenances of species. Minor
equipment for research trials, pilot
plantations, the pilot training/logging unit
and the site assessment survey would be
purchased in small and diversified lots over
the project period, and would be procured
locally following prudent shopping. Civil
works would be subject to local bidding
or built on force account according to pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.
Map       IBRD    11730



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Estimated Phasing of Feasibility Study
PHASE 1                                 PHASE II                                  PHASE IlIl                  PHASE IV      PHASE V
MONTHS       1-6              7             8             9            10            11            12            13            14            15        16 - 20
FORESTRY STUDIES
Forest Economist 1-                        - ....._
Inventory Specialist 1/                      ..........
Simcuitural Specialist                                                                                   .... .....
Logging & Roads Specialist                                                                   . .............
Computer Specialist                                                  .     .....                  ............ ............ ...........
MARKET STUDIES
Pulp & Paper Market Analyst                                    . .. ... ...... -..
Mechanical Wood Production Market Analyst                                           ................ 
Transportation Specialist                                                               - .................
SOCIAL STUDY
Sociologist                                      ....................  .............                                                             .............
Social Anthropologist                            .................... ............
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Environmental Specialist
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Forest Products Planning Specialist                 r.                    .......    ............ ........
INDUSTRIAL STUDIES
Mechanical Wood Products Specialist                               .    -             ................
Pulp Process Specialist                                          -    --         ---
Paper Process Specialist _
Capital Cost Estimater                            _                                                            _ . .  
Manufacturing Cost Estimater                                                             ...
Other Specialists
ECONOMIC & FINANCIAL STUDIES
Senior Financial Analyst
EXECUTIVE DIRECTION
Market & Industrial Studies
Forestry Studies
OTHER SERVICES
Drafting & Mapping
.............. Field
Home Office
X Review meeting
It is expected that the studies concerned with the existing resource base                                                                            World Bank-15280(2R)
mould precede the other studies by six months.
All staff allotted one week home office time before proceeding to field



INDIA
MADHYA PRADESH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Initial Implementation Schedule
Main Activities                       Responsible   Pre-effectiveness                       Months after Effectiveness
Authority                        1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9     10      11
1. Appointment of Project                                  MPFDC
Manager
2. Setting up Coordinating                                  GOMP
Committee
3. Completion of Inventory                                  GOMP
4. Tribal Study                                             GOMNP                         _                                                                    -
5. Invitation to Consultating                              MPFDC                                 -      -
Firms for Feasibility Study
6. Selection of Consultants                                MPFDC
7. Feasibility Study                                                                                                                           - I              _
8. Research Trials and Pilot                               MPFDC
Plantation
(a)   Appointment of Managers                                                          -             -
(b)   Hire of Consultants
(c)   Consultant Visit
(d)   Ordering of Seed
(e)   Initiate trials and                                                                      -                   -                                         -
Plantations
if)   Selection of Personnel                                                               l                                     -            -
for Fellowships
9. Pilot Logging Unit                                      MPFDC
(a)   Appointment of Logging
Manager
(b)   Consultant Visits (One month in years 2, 4 and 5)
(c)   Start of Logging Operation
(d)   Hiring of Winch Lorry                                                                    -     -             -      -             -             -
Specialist (at end of year one)
10. Site Assessment Survey                                  MPFDC                                                                           -      -_-
World Bank-15478



NORT       BASTAR                                                            .         ......
T l      ARY   TO       PUR
BAR U
ORES                                                 P.  v     A   T
CH        T
E A 0
Al          H          A
R -A
lz
PILOT Pi
PLANTAT ON
T                                         AREA'
Y,
GO
E A
F 0 R
AM
2                        so
MIL
KOTT                                                               N
14 A M M A M           u P
A                                                                                                                  8ASTAR        DISTRICT                                                                       17,
UPPLY AND INTENSIVE PLANTATION
INDUSTRIAL WOMS
06ELOPMENT AREAS
NATIOIIAL AND ITATI IIICHINAY'
CIRCLE BOUNDAFty
DISTRICT HIGHWAYS
FORESTS/CATCHMENT qEA BOUNDARIES
iu                                                                                                                                     IRCAU GAUGE RAILWAYS                        ..  .....
TER
ABDVE 300 ME                                                                          k__
METER GAUG' RAILWAYS
100-3DO METERS                                                                           7
RIVERS
1V                                            o-loo METERS
1)(STR16T 6OUNDARIEI
PEAKS
TOWNS, VILLAGES,                              STATE BOUNDARIES



