Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16610
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2107-SN)
MAY 27, 1997
Agriculture 3
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1            =   324 CFAF (at appraisal Feb. 1990)
SDR 1           =   569 CFAF (as of Feb. 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
National Committee for Cooperation of Rural People
Debt and Investment Directorate
CGIAR                 Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
CIRAD                 Centre franqais pour la cooperation internationale en agriculture
CNCR                  Comite National de Cooperation et de Concertation des Ruraux
CORAF                 Confirence des responsables de la recherche agronomique Africaine
DDI                   Direction de la Dette et des Investissements
EPIC                  Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel et Commercial
EPST                  Etablissement Public a caractere Scientifique et Technique
FAO                   Food and Agriculture Organization
GIS                   Geographic Information System
ICRISAT               International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA                   International Development Association
IDRC                  International Development Research Centre
ILCA                  International Livestock Centre for Africa
ISNAR                 International Service for National Agricultural Research
ISRA                  Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
ITA                   Institut de Technologie Alimentaire
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOP                   Memorandum of the President
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
NRBAR                 Natural Resource-Based Agricultural Research
ORSTOM                Office de recherche scientifique et technique d'outre-mer
PNVA                  Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole
National Agricultural Extension Program
R&D                   Research and Development
SAGNO                 Systeme d'Amelioration Genetique a Noyau Ouvert
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
WAFSRN                West Africa Farmning Systems Research Network
WARDA                 West African Rice Development Association
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 = December 31
Vice President   :  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director   :  Mahmood A. Ayub
Technical Manager   : Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader   :  Marie-Helene Collion



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE.
EVALUATION SUMMARY.
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                             .I
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES.                                                        1
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                                          3
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ..........10
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .1 2
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .12
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE .1 4
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME                                                             I5
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .1 5
l. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                                       16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .............................                                    18
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                                              I8
TABLE 2:    RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .20
TABLE 3: PROJECTTIMETABLE                                                                    21
TABLE 4: DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .21
TABLE: 5 KEY INDICATOR FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .22
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ....................................          26
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT.26
TABLE8 A7: PROJECT.COSTS                                                                    32
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .33
TABLEI10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS.33
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .35
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS                                                       35
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .35
TABLE 14: GOVEERMENTTCONTRIBUTION.36
TABLE 15: REALLOCATION OF FUNDS DURING THE PROJECT .37
PART III: APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX B: SUMMARY OF BORROWERS' EVALUATION
APPENDIX C: USAID/NRBAR EVALUATION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2107 - SN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural Research
Project in Senegal, for which Credit 2107-SN in the amount of SDR 14.0 million (US$ 18.5 million
equivalent) was approved on April 24, 1990 and made effective in January 1991.
The ICR was prepared by Marie-Helene Collion (AFTA3), of the Africa Region with help from
Leopold Sarr - Agricultural Services Specialist; Pierre Rondot - Agricultural Economist; and Hannibal
Muhtar - Infrastructure Research Specialist, and reviewed by Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse, Technical
Manager, AFTA3. The borrower and cofinanciers provided comments that are included as appendixes
to the ICR.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1996, one year after the original closing date of December
31, 1995. In May 1997, cumulative disbursements were SDR 13.96 million (US$20.1 million
equivalent). Parallel financing has been provided by USAID, the French Cooperation, and the
International Development Research Center. A number of small grants from various sources have also
been obtained by individual researchers.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/project completion mission,
January 7-17, 1997. It is based on material in the project file and findings of the completion mission.
The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by participating in the final
supervision/project completion mission and providing comments on the mission's aide-memoire -
Appendix A. The Borrower also prepared their own evaluation report - Appendix B. Appendix C is
an evaluation by the Chief-of-Party of the USAID/National Resource-Based Agricultural Research
Project, one of the major parallel sources of funding for ISRA. Finally, the Borrower made comments
on the ICR report which were taken into consideration in the final version.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2107 - SN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project objective was to generate appropriate lower risk technology to improve
farmers' and herders' incomes in a sustainable manner. It was consistent with the borrower's
strategy stated in the Five-year Plan developed by ISRA, in line with the Government's new
agricultural policy (Nouvelle Politique Agricole).
2.    The project components and activities consisted of:
(a) adapting material and technologies already developed and focusing aplied research
on major technical problems already identified for each agroecological zone;
(b) undertaking natural resource management in the principal agricultural zones and
testing fertilizer recommendations in farmers' fields;
(c) strengthening: (i) the linkages between research, extension, development agencies
and farming community; (ii) research planning and programming; (iii)
administrative and financial management;
(d) establishing a commercial production company;
(e)' setting up an unallocated research fund; and
(f) providing local training and technical assistance.
3.    The project was to provide funds for civil works (mainly ISRA headquarters), vehicles,
equipment, local training, technical assistance to ISRA's administration, and financial
management and incremental operating cost. At appraisal, the total cost of the project was
estimated at US$38.9 million with a foreign exchange component of US$11.4 million. The Bank
was to finance 47 percent total project cost and 92 percent of foreign cost.



- ii -
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    Most of the applied and adaptive research objectives were achieved under regional
programs combining laboratory tests (applied research) with field tests (adaptive research).
Linkages between research, extension, development agencies and farming community were
strengthened. Research planning and programming procedures were improved without ISNAR's
technical assistance initially envisioned. Annual work programs are now more focused and
reflect more adequately clients' needs. Significant results were obtained in plant breeding,
cultural practices and natural management techniques. The reserve research fund was never used
as such, and was therefore reallocated to other credit categories. However, with support from
NRBAR , a USAID funded project, ISRA set up a competitive research grants system which
performed essentially the same function.
5.   ISRA's administrative and financial management improved only marginally. After nearly
seven years of continuous support, ISRA's financial statements are still qualified by its auditor.
Management and cost accounting data is still not available on a regular basis in a format
compatible with efficient resource management and utilization.
6.    The objective of creating a commercial company for the production and sale of seeds and
vaccines was found unrealistic. However, production activities were separated from research
activities through the creation of a unit with financial and administrative autonomy. Technical
assistance and training to improve human resources management had negligible impact: the
Institute did not adopt the procedures developed, nor did it make use of the tools taught.
7.   ISRA's headquarters were built but poorly designed. Major rehabilitation works were
achieved. Although plans to rehabilitate the station experimental plots were designed, the work
did not start.
8.    The overall technical assistance provided to ISRA amounted to 140 short term missions,
equivalent to 537 person-weeks, mainly for institutional support. It includes 250 person-weeks
for administrative and financial management support. Most of the funding came from NRBAR.
9.    The total estimated expenditure at project completion (December 31, 1996) was 17, 813
million F.CFA equivalent to US$46.3 million. This is higher than the appraisal estimate due to
an increase in Government contribution as well as to the change in US$/SDR parity. The IDA
credit was almost completely disbursed in May 1997. Most was disbursed during the last three
years of the project. Two reallocations were necessary to compensate for higher than expected
expenditures on civil works and operating costs.
'NRBAR= Natural Resource-Based Agricultural Research.



- jjj_-
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.   The Second Agricultural Research Project was identified in July 1987 on the basis of a
preparatory document presented by ISRA. Technical and financial issues were clearly identified
and brought to the attention of the Govermnent during a pre-appraisal mission in May 1988. The
project was appraised in November 1988 and post-appraised in February 1989. Negotiations
took place in January 1990, but credit effectiveness was delayed until January 1991 because of
Government processes in adopting ISRA's organizational decree. The project closing date was
postponed from December 1995 to December 1996.
11.   A review of the major factors affecting the project points to the fact that while the
relevance of objectives is not questioned, the Government and the implementing agency's
capacity to achieve them may have been over-estimated at project appraisal.
Factors generally subject to Government control.
12.  ISRA's legal statute, Etablissement Public a caractere Industriel et Commercial (EPIC)
is not appropriate for a research institute. The status of Etablissement Public ai caractere
Scientifique et Technique (EPST) has been proposed instead. The draft EPST law and decree
have been under review by Government since 1994. The absence of an adequate institutional
framework makes it difficult for ISRA to further implement institutional reform in line with
project objectives.
13.   Disbursements were very slow at the beginning of the project, in part due to the
intermediation of the Directorate of the Debt and Investments of the Ministry of Finance. The
situation improved once ISRA was authorized to manage the special account directly and when
ISRA's accountant became solely responsible for managing the IDA credit.
Factors generally subject to Implementing Agency.
14.   Despite continuous support from both USAID and IDA, ISRA's administrative and
financial management remains weak. One of the reasons is the lack of overall accountability for
ISRA's financial management and the lack of suitably qualified accounting personnel. Every
year, the audit reports were qualified largely because the accounts were not properly reconciled
to support fixed assets and payables in the financial statements. Because of weaknesses in
financial and accounting management, regional centers did not always receive funding in time or
in sufficient amounts to allow for adequate research implementation. The impact of this was
limited because other sources of funding (USAID, French Cooperation and IDRC), were
available, thus enabling research experiments to continue.
15.   Short-term technical assistance and training to improve human resources management
had negligible impact on ISRA's human resources management because of its place in the
organization and poor qualification of personnel in charge.



- iv -
16.   The lack of infrastructure and equipment maintenance, the partial result of two
downsizings during the First Agricultural Research Project, had a detrimental impact on the
quality and replicability of experiments. Due to delays in procurement and lack of technical
capabilities to prepare tender documents, although buildings and basic infrastructure have been
rehabilitated, station experimental plots have not. Equipment was received only towards the end
of the project.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   The current level of government financial support will not allow ISRA to adequately
maintain its present network of infrastructure (even consolidated as being considered) nor
implement all the activities proposed for the next phase. An important contribution from donors
would still be needed.  Two additional conditions are necessary for ISRA to sustain its
achievements: (a) the adoption of the proposed legal statute of EPST; and (b) improvement of its
administrative and financial management capacity.
BANK PERFORMANCE
18.   Bank performance in all phases of the project was generally satisfactory. The project
benefited from a high degree of qualified expertise during supervision and, in particular, during
the in-depth mid-term  review.  During preparation, insufficient attention was given to
infrastructure and equipment management and to station rehabilitation needs. Government and
ISRA implementing capability may have been over estimated. Perhaps the Bank should have
reacted more strongly to the repeatedly qualified audits that were reported, regardless of the fact
that ISRA benefited from intensive financial and accounting management support.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
19.   Government provided more funding than the level initially agreed upon in the Credit
Agreement. Compliance with legal covenants was mixed. Agreed recommendations were not
always implemented although ISRA's staff actively participated in Bank supervision missions.
ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
20.  The overall assessment of the project is marginally satisfactory. Despite ISRA's weak
institutional capacity, important research results were obtained. Had the project been more
successful in strengthening financial, and human resources management, it is likely that more
research results could have been obtained. It is disappointing, however, that despite all the
investments made in strengthening financial and administrative management in terms of equipment
and technical assistance, performance in this area is still unsatisfactory.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
21.   A follow-up project using a four-pronged approach is under preparation: research,
extension services, producer organizations and Ministry restructuring. The objective is to



- v -
promote a partnership between agricultural services and producer organizations, with producers
jointly defining the research and extension programs with the agricultural services, allocating
resources and evaluating results. The new project will also include the Food Research Institute
(ITA: Institut de Technologie Alimentaire). It will build on the recently adopted decentralization
laws that devolve responsibilities to local and regional collectivities.
22.   For ISRA in particular, preparation of the new project focuses on:
* the legal context (EPST law, a new Reglement d'Etablissement that ISRA can identify
with and a new organizational decree that institutionalizes research regionalization);
*  an improved and decentralized financial management system, including cost-
accounting;
*  the Strategic Plan, with priority-setting and establishing regional research teams;
.  downsizing and consolidating the network of infrastructure to achieve ISRA's
sustainability by the end of the third phase;
.  collaboration with ITA on selected agroprocessing and post-harvest technology
programs and with other institutes and University in such areas as publications, and
documentation; and
*  improved station management.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
23.   Scope of research institutes. During the preparation of the second phase, the Bank
requested ISRA's management to set priorities among the activities identified under the Five-
year Plan as a condition for negotiations, but did not squarely address the issue of infrastructure
network and fixed costs. Consolidation and downsizing of infrastructure and staff to a level
sustainable by Government should be a major concern for the government and a prerequisite for
the Bank at the onset of involvement with research institutes to avoid promoting research
institutes that are unsustainable.
24.   Human resources management and capacity building.  ISRA's difficulties in
improving its financial and administrative management can be traced, by and large, to
insufficiently qualified and motivated staff.  Even though ISRA's staff is contractual,
management was not able to replace unqualified personnel with better qualified staff. ISRA's
management also shied away from implementing a merit-based review system. This situation is
not specific to ISRA and Senegal. It shows the limits of a strategy of institutional development
for agricultural research without a supporting overall Government policy.



- vi -
25.   Financial management. Effective financial management of research institutes is a
prerequisite for the success of research objectives. Qualified financial Bank staff should be more
involved with the team responsible for project preparation and implementation. However,
ensuring cost-efficiency and financial discipline in research institutions remains the
responsibility of the government.
26.  Importance of agroprocessing research. Any analysis of potential agricultural sector
development in Senegal, and in many other African countries, shows that the opportunities for
added-value and growth in processing may be relatively important compared with productivity
gains in production. Though it would complicate projects when more than one research
institution and ministry are involved, such as in the case of Senegal, the Bank should not
consider investing in production research without investing simultaneously in post-harvest
research.
27.   Adapting or generating technologies? Rather than a purely technology generation
strategy, a strategy of adaptive research should be pursued. International scientific collaboration
should also be promoted to maintain a research institute's access to advanced technology.
28.   Bank technical support for infrastructure development. The Bank should ensure that
the Borrower's capacity to review technical and engineering plans is adequate and that such
plans have been carefully evaluated by the Borrower prior to giving its no objection.
29.   Research station management and development. Research stations demand a high
level of management skills and careful planning of use of resources, activities, and staff.
Research project preparation must therefore give adequate attention to station management and
ensure that support services expenditures are properly budgeted.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2107-SN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    The Second Agricultural Research Project, with a credit amount of US$18.5 million, was
intended to consolidate achievements made under the First Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
1176-SN), completed in June 1989. The first project aimed at a broad reorganization and
rationalization of the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute (ISRA), which has a national
mandate for research on crop and livestock production as well as for forestry and fisheries. It
financed the rehabilitation and construction of ISRA's research infrastructure and staff housing,
the procurement of station and laboratory equipment and vehicles, and the recruitment of
scientists and other personnel. The project helped ISRA to increase its number of trained
national scientists, nationalize its management, and produce a number of valuable technologies.
Staff skill gaps and redundancies were dealt with. However, relatively little attention was paid to
the linkages with extension services. Additionally, research was not sufficiently focused on real
farmers' needs. ISRA's financial management remained weak throughout the first project. As a
result, funds for research inputs were not generally available on time and in sufficient amounts,
except for the last year of the project, thus significantly affecting the effectiveness of research
programs.
B.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
2.    Project Objectives. The broad objective of the Second Agricultural Research Project
was to increase the generation of lower risk technology to improve farmers' and herders'
incomes in a sustainable manner. The specific objectives were to: (i) undertake priority research
programs identified in ISRA's Five-year Research Program; (ii) continue to improve ISRA's
programming and budgeting systems and personnel and financial management; and (iii) get
researchers out of their stations and into farmers' fields. In support of these objectives, the
project, to be implemented over five years, included the following activities:
(a)   financial support to ISRA for implementing selected research programs of the
five-year Research Plan;
(b)   strengthening of ISRA's administrative and financial management;
(c)   implementation of adaptive research activities to test, in real farm situation, the
technologies developed during the first project;



-2-
(d)   applied research targeted at major technical problems in the priority agricultural
zones;
(e)   development of an applied research program in natural resources management;
(f)   strengthening of the linkages between research, extension, development agencies
and the farming community;
(g)  training in research planning and programming for ISRA's management and
research staff;
(h)   provision of financial support for ISRA's support services and for the
establishment of a commercial company to manage revenue-eaming activities; and
(i)   establishment of a Research Reserve Fund to support urgent research work not
identified in the five-year Research Plan.
3.    At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$38.9 million with a foreign
exchange component of US$11.4 million. The Bank was to finance US$18.5 million (47
percent of total project costs) and the Government of Senegal US$20.4 million (53 percent).
USAID, the French Cooperation and the Intemational Development Research Center provided
additional financing which was not secured at the time of project appraisal.
4.    Evaluation of objectives. The project's broad objectives were in line with Govermnent's
strategy for agricultural development. Government's new agricultural policy (Nouvelle politique
agricole) sought to combine increased agricultural production with social benefits and increased
natural resources protection. ISRA's five-year Research Plan reflected this policy. The plan was
based on a rigorous analysis of geographical and thematic priorities that provided the basis for
regional applied research programs. The project was to finance priority research programs
identified in the five-year Plan together with the Government and two other major donors,
USAID and the French bilateral assistance. ISRA's five-year Plan did not have separate
programs for natural resources management and fertilization, nor did it make a distinction
between adaptive and applied research, whereas the SAR did. It was not until the last year of the
project that a reorganization of the research programs took place and a distinction was made
between adaptive and applied research. The ICR, therefore, reviews these programs jointly
rather than independently as was done in the SAR. The institutional strengthening component of
the project was to assist the Government in consolidating its research efforts, building upon the
important infrastructure and human resource investment of the first project. While the objectives
were relevant, the capacity of the Government and the implementing agency to achieve them
may have been over estimated at project appraisal.



-3-
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Financial Support to ISRA
5.    Activities under this component were poorly laid out in the SAR, with significant
duplication with other components. The provision of funds for research programs, the Research
Fund and support to ISRA's administrative and financial management were listed both as
activities under this component and as separate components. The only other activities listed were
related to civil works (new headquarters for ISRA and minor station rehabilitation). The
headquarters building was completed, albeit with delays and at significantly higher costs (US$
actual versus US$ estimated). The quality of the architectural design suffered from insufficient
capacity at ISRA to supervise large civil works and a reluctance to use contract services for this
type of work. The cost of rehabilitation was higher than anticipated for the same reason.
Administrative and Financial Management
6.   ISRA's administrative and financial management was supposed to have been
significantly improved under the First Agriculture Research Project. The objective of the second
phase project was to further strengthen it. Services and equipment provided under the project
were designed to complement USAID-financed assistance to ISRA in this domain. IDA
financing included computer equipment to replace the aging main-frame computer. USAID
financed a management consultancy firm (187 person-weeks) and long-term expatriate assistance
(15.5 person-months) to advise ISRA on the choice of new accounting and financial management
systems and to facilitate their start-up and implementation. The objective was to enable ISRA to
produce reliable and timely financial and cost management accounting data, to allow the cost
efficiency of its activities to be properly monitored by ISRA's management and to optimize
resource utilization.
7.    After nearly seven years of support, it is not obvious, what, if anything, this assistance has
achieved:
*  ISRA's audit reports are still qualified (those for 1995 have been the subject of a
disclaimer of opinion by the newly appointed auditors);
*  management and cost accounting data is still not available on a regular basis in a
format compatible with efficient monitoring and management of ISRA's scarce
financial resources.
Implementation of Regional Applied and Adaptive Research
8.    The technology development objectives set in the context of the Second Agricultural
Research Project largely corresponded to the priorities identified in ISRA's five-year Research
Plan (1989-1993). An exception is fisheries research, which was not included in the project.
The initial objectives were relevant. However, not all of the objectives were fully reached,



-4-
essentially because of lack of scientists or specialized expertise. ISRA implemented the research
activities under regionalized, global regional programs which lumped together adaptive and
applied research as well as fertilization and natural resource management.
9.    Weaknesses in financial management contributed to cash-flow problems: regional
centers did not always receive funding in time and in sufficient amounts to allow for effective
research implementation. Research activities budgeted under the IDA credit were consequently
sustained with other funding.
10.   On a regional basis, ISRA researchers generated or adapted technologies that can be used
as a useful proxy of project outcome. In spite of financial and administrative management
problems, research results were substantial,  particularly in the area of natural resources
management, reflecting an increased commitment to this priority area. The following paragraphs
summarize the research findings presented in Table 5 a. These results were the subject of a number
of publications (See Table 7).
11.   Senegal River valley. Few concrete results were obtained in the areas of water and soil
management and agroforestry (Table 5 a: Technology 35, 36, 37), principally because of the lack
of qualified staff. Breeding material for rice and maize, however, was tested by farmers and
officially approved as improved varieties (22, 23, 24). Models to aid in decision-making were
also designed to help producers choose agricultural equipment or fertilization methods (32, 33,
34).
12.   Silvo-pastoral zone. Regarding natural resource management, results were obtained in
the management of arabic gum trees and the development of agroforestry techniques (39 to 46),
as well as in the area of animal feed (47, 48, 49) and adapting agricultural machinery (50 to 54).
13.   Lower and Mid Casamance. Water and soil management models were prepared to
prevent salinization in dams and dikes (95). Formulas were developed for organic-mineral
fertilizer for different types of rice cropping. For rice-based production systems, agricultural
equipment was adapted to local conditions (89 to 94); varieties were produced (81 to 88);
production systems were characterized, and agricultural prices were monitored. However, five
researchers left for training at approximately the same time, which disrupted experimentation
work and the validation of results on-farm, hence a poor diffusion rate for the technologies
generated.
14.   Sine-Saloum. Simple, locally-adapted technologies have been developed for soil
preparation (radou baling and tillage techniques) to improve water infiltration (73,74). Results
in plant breeding (55 to 62, 67 to 72), agroforestry (80), and soil fertility management of
degraded land (63, 64, 78, 79) were also obtained, taking into account agro-ecological
constraints. Technologies were adapted for fodder storage and for groundnut seed storage under
controlled atmosphere to prevent aflatoxin (75). Techniques to improve fodder quality with urea
were developed (76,77).



-5-
15.   On-farm and village studies made it possible to draw up plans for integrated watershed
management, and models for managing water and fertility at the terroir and fann level. These
results were used in soil fertility restoration and conservation programns conducted by the
National Agricultural Extension Program (PNVA).
16.   Eastern Senegal and Upper Casamance. Results were obtained in cotton fertilization
(97,98). In the areas of crop diversification and agroforestry, no results were obtained because
several scientists on the team had left. A comprehensive analysis of the livestock-based
subsystem was completed, innovations were introduced (barn models) improving fertilizer
quality and rationalizing the use of feed supplements (99,100).
17.   Niayes. Significant results were obtained to answer the needs of horticulturist farmers in
the following domains: plant production (2,3), plant breeding (8 to 12), postharvest technology
(1), animal production (4 to 7) and agronomy practices (sod nurseries or onion seedlings).
18.   Fishery resources research. This area was not financed under the IDA credit. Results
were obtained for small-scale fishing equipment, conservation, and processing for fish products.
Linkages between Research, Extension, Development Agencies and the Farming
Community
19.   Most of the sub-objectives have been implemented. At the beginning, researchers were
using the regional research-extension committees to validate their technologies, rather than
obtain feedback on constraints. Towards the end of the project, these committees began to
function as a two-way communication process and to be an effective tool. The committees,
however, still need to be institutionalized within ISRA's programming process. ISRA also
organizes training for extension agents but not on a regular basis as was expected under the
monthly technical review meetings of the extension services. Many researchers have been trained
in on-farm  research methodologies.  The USAID  supported Natural Resources Based
Agricultural Research Project (NRBAR) also provided strong and effective incentives for
researchers to design and implement research activities in collaboration with producer
organizations and NGOs.
20.   The creation of a Research and Development (R&D) Unit comprising the heads of:
research of ISRA, the Food Technology Institute (ITA, lnstitut de Technologie Alimentaire), the
National Committee for Cooperation of Farmers (CNCR, Comite National de Cooperation et de
Concertation des Ruraux) and the National Agricultural Extension Program, has been an
important achievement to improve linkages with users. The Unit's mandate is to ensure
progress of a participatory system for the generation and transfer of technology and agreed upon
joint R&D activities. The R&D Unit has been active in the preparation of the Agricultural
Services and Producer Organizations Project currently under preparation by Government. In
summary, at project completion, client-orientation has significantly improved, with direct
implication of clients in ISRA strategic planning exercise, the regionalization of research, and
more systematic linkages and contracts with partners.



-6-
Research Planning and Programming
21.   The International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) was to provide
short-term technical assistance and short-term training courses to strengthen ISRA's capacity to
plan and program research. ISRA felt that external technical assistance and training were not
necessary. Recommendations to improve programming procedures were adopted, except for ex-
ante technology evaluation (made during Bank supervisions). ISRA management and Bank staff
finally agreed that this was not a priority given the need for other, more urgent institutional
reforms. With the reorganization of the Institute and research regionalization, programming now
begins with multidisciplinary regional committees involving direct and indirect research users.
Programming ends with the Scientific and Technical Commission, an advisory body to the Board
of Governors, with a mandate to ensure scientific quality of research programs. Annual work
programs are now more focused (fewer research activities) and more adequately reflect clients'
needs and available resources.
22.   Though not planned under the project, ISRA introduced external program reviews, aimed
at improving research quality similar to those undertaken by the Consultative Group for
International Agricultural Research,. Five (out of 23) programs were reviewed in 1993 and 1994.
In addition, in 1995, as part of the mid-term review and as a basis for preparing ISRA's 1998-
2010 Strategic Plan, all programs were reviewed.  However, mechanisms to ensure that
recommendations made by the external program review teams are implemented are lacking.
23.  ISRA still does not have a formalized monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. It is
critical that ISRA develops the tools needed to systematically monitor research activities to
ensure their scientific quality and relevance.  ISRA  is aware of the importance of
institutionalizing an M&E process. The Institute is planning to address this issue as part of the
implementation of its 1998-2010 Strategic Plan.
24.  ISRA's international contacts were also strengthened, contributing to improved scientific
quality and scientists' knowledge. Researchers are now participating in numerous regional
networks (CORAF, WAFSRN etc.), which is indispensable for the smooth exchange of
information. Collaboration with CGIAR institutes (WARDA, ILCA, ICRISAT) and with
advanced research institutes, especially in France (CIRAD, ORSTOM), has helped ISRA to
achieve some of the research objectives of the project.
Research Support Services and Establishment of a Commercial Production Company
25.  Improving station management soon appeared essential if research activities were not to
suffer. From mid-1993 on, with strong support from the Bank and USAID, ISRA began to
improve its station support services. In 1995 and 1996, station managers were trained or
recruited and station operating expenditures and indirect research costs began to be adequately
budgeted. At project completion, seven station managers had received short-term courses on
various aspects of station management.  Six managers were trained abroad in station
management and the use of Geographic Information System (GIS) as a tool for station
management.



-7-
26.   One of the objectives of the project, supported with a dated covenant, was the spin-off of
commercial activities related to the production and sale of seeds and vaccines. It took ISRA over
three years to complete a feasibility study, which concluded that this objective was unrealistic.
As a result, the mid-term review recommended dropping this objective, focusing instead on
clearly separating revenue-earning and research activities, thereby ensuring their financial and
administrative autonomy within ISRA. This recommendation was subsequently carried out.
27.   Research Fund for Unidentified Research Activities. The Research Fund for research
activities, unidentified at the time of project appraisal, was not used. The funds were reallocated
to other activities. A supervision mission suggested that producer organizations tap into the
Research Fund to contract for research activities of interest to them but not included in regular
ISRA programs. ISRA management did not follow up on this recommendation. The reason
evoked was that the social environment, within and outside the Institute, was not ready for such
an innovation. With the creation of the R&D Unit and the strengthening of producer
organizations, this idea is being considered for the next project. However, with support from the
NRBAR project, ISRA did implement a competitive research grants system which, essentially,
performed the same function.
Short-term Training and Technical Assistance
28.   This component involved two related activities: the strengthening of human resources
management, including the evaluation of the ISRA's training needs, and training. Local training
was to be financed under the credit, while training abroad was to be financed by donors and
international research institutes on a grant basis.
29.   As planned, ISNAR provided short-term technical assistance and training to improve
human resources management. In particular the objective was to: (a) formulate a policy and
strategy for human resources development; (b) elaborate a manual for personnel management;
and (c) introduce a performance review system. This assistance, however, had negligible impact,
on ISRA's human resources management. The personnel in charge of human resources
management had poor qualifications and had little authority because of their organizational
location within ISRA. As a result, the procedures developed and skills taught were not adopted.
30.   From 1991 to 1996, the overall technical assistance to ISRA amounted to an impressive
140 short-term missions, equivalent to 537 person-weeks (134 person-months) mainly for
institutional support, including 250 person-weeks for administrative and financial management
support. Graphs A and B present the short-term assistance donations and the sources of funding.
Most funding came from the NRBAR project. Some short-term technical assistance and training
was provided for biometry with a limited effect since ISRA did not have a specialized resource-
person in this domain to follow up after training completion.



-8-
Graph A: Consultancy missions under Agriculture
Research 11 in staff/week
450      404
400      404
350+ 
53001
,250-
0
200-;
A  1504      _
E
z 100-~ '                  84
_0              -28                        21
O
Institutional    Monitoring  Technical     Impact
support        and          studies      studies
evaluation
Graph B: Consultancy missions by donors
total: 537 staff/weeks,
Japanese
IDRC 5%ISNAR
Frenchl %       3%
4% O
IDA
14% 
NRBAR
73%



-9-
Financial Objectives
31.   The appraisal estimate of the project's total costs was F.CFA 12,6 million or US$38.9
million. At project completion, due to an increase in Government contribution (see Table 14)
and to the change in US$/SDR parity, the estimated total expenditure was F.CFA17.8 million,
equivalent to US$46.3 million. In May 1997, the IDA credit was almost completely disbursed
(see Table 15). Disbursements were uneven and very slow during the first three years of the
project (See Graph C below).
Graph C: Second Agricultural Research Project
Disbursements F. CFA
3000
ESpecial Account
2500 -                                               replenishment
.  Direct withdrawal
* 2000                                                  request
1 500
U-
500
0-
CD 0     0)                       0
32.    Until mid- 1993, the special account was managed by the Debt and Investment
Directorate of the Ministry of Finances (DDI). Disbursements rarely reached research stations
on time and in sufficient amounts to carry out research activities adequately. (The situation
improved somewhat in 1993 when the amount of ISRA's account was increased.)
Disbursements improved substantially when, in June 1994, management of the special account
was transferred to ISRA.  Expenditures did not conform  to appraisal estimates.  Two
reallocations were necessary. Expenditures on civil works, equipment and operating costs were
under estimated. The reserve research fund was never used (See Table 15).
33.   Despite uncertainty in 1993, Government's funding of ISRA was regular. The total
Government contribution of F.CFA 9.5 billion, (an annual average of approximately F.CFA 1.6
billion), was more than the F.CFA 6.6 billion estimated at appraisal. It included a fixed transfer
of F.CFA 500 million/year for equipment and a variable transfer for operating costs, mainly
salaries (see Table B). The transfer for operating costs was, however, never sufficient to cover
ISRA salaries. The Institute thus ended up using the equipment transfer to pay salaries.



-10-
C.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
34.   The major factors that affected the achievement of project objectives were under
Government and implementing agency control (ISRA).
Factors generally under Government control.
35.   ISRA's legal status, that of an EPIC (Establissement Public a caractere Industriel et
Commercial) is not suitable for a research institute, as it requires the organization to finance 70
percent of its budget out of revenue-earning activities. The EPST (Etablissement Public a
caractere Scientifique et Technique) was found more appropriate. The draft EPST law and decree
have been under review by Government since 1994. At project completion, a decision is still
pending. The lack of adequate institutional framework has prevented ISRA to introduce
necessary reforms and adopt a Rtglement d'Etablissement (conditions of service) more adapted
to research activities and to the Institute's resources. This shortfall has limited ISRA's ability to
further implement project objectives.
36.   DDI, which controls all external funding, has been the main reason for delays in
forwarding special account replenishment and direct withdrawal requests, as well as official
requests for credit management (credit reallocations, extension of closing date, etc.). Use of the
special account improved when: (i) ISRA was finally authorized to manage it directly; and (ii)
the roles of the Secretary General of ISRA, the chief accountant, and the internal auditor were
clarified The chief accountant was made responsible for IDA credit management when ISRA
began to manage the special account directly.
37.   Delays in procurement considerably affected project implementation. The delays were
due in part to cumbersome procedures and slow processing of the dossiers by the Commission
Nationale des Contrats Administratifs.
38.   The last Director general, who had been very effective in taking steps to improve
financial management, was dismissed on January 15, 1997. It is not clear whether the new
Director general will be able to continue these reforms.
Factors generally under Implementing Agency Control
39.   Financial Management. The most important impediment to project implementation was
ISRA's weak financial and administrative management. Despite substantial support during both
first and second phase projects (187 person-weeks of short-term external consultants and 15.5
person-months of expatriate assistance during the second phase alone), little improvement has
been achieved in this domain. Recurrent qualifications of the audit reports have been partly due
to the absence of properly reconciled accounts to support fixed assets, receivables and payables
in the financial statements. Two major reasons for this are: (i) the lack of accountability for
financial management; and (ii) the lack of qualified accounting personnel (due in part to ISRA's
inability to recruit and motivate such staff due to its pay scales). This situation has been



-11-
compounded by numerous and varied -- sometimes even contradictory -- recommendations
received from external consultants. The advice received consultants has alternated from a
decentralized structure to a centralized one and back to a decentralized system; recommendations
for supporting equipment shifted from a mainframe computer to a network of personal
computers.
40.  In the last eighteen months of project implementation, after the appointment of a new
Director general and the recruitment of two highly qualified and motivated financial staff,
internal audit and budgetary control began to improve. At project completion, the financial
accounting unit was in a position to work together with an accounting firm recruited to put in
place an improved financial management system. Unfortunately, both the Director General and
one of the two financial staff have subsequently left ISRA.
41.   Human resources management.  Short-term technical assistance and training to
improve human resources management had a negligible impact. The human resource unit was
under the Secretary General, which meant it could not influence scientific staff management
(under the Scientific Directorate). Because of this position in the organigram and the poor
qualifications of its personnel, the human resource management unit had no authority within the
Institute.
42.  In 1992, scientists were evaluated to be classified under the new personnel categories of
the Reglement d 'Etablissement (conditions of service, adopted by decree in 1983). Nevertheless,
the Institute did not implement the results. ISRA's resources were not sufficient to implement the
Reglement d'Etablissement while at the same time maintaining the level of activities and scope
of the Institute (personnel and infrastructure). ISRA's management chose to maintain the
Institute scope. Non-scientific staff were not evaluated, in spite of repeated Bank requests,
especially for financial and accounting staff.
43.   Because of inadequate human resource management research teams were depleted as
scientists were allowed to leave concurrently for long-term training financed by other donors.
Moreover, some of the Five-year Plan research objectives required specialists that ISRA did not
have and that should have been either recruited or provided by external assistance. This was not
always done. Finally, systematic procedures and tools to ensure scientific quality and relevance,
and monitor research activity implementation did not exist and were not developed.
44.   Research infrastructure maintenance. During the First Agricultural Research Project,
ISRA reduced its personnel by dismissing station support staff without proportionately reducing
the research activities or number of sites. The function of support services was virtually
eliminated. Consequently, lack of station and laboratory maintenance resulted in degraded
conditions for researchers to conduct their experiments. On the third year of the project, having
realized the severity of the situation, ISRA's management took actions to improve research
infrastructure maintenance with the support of IDA and USAID. Due to delays in procurement,
only buildings and basic infrastructure have been rehabilitated. Experimental plots have not been
rehabilitated, though the plans have been completed for all research stations except Kolda and
Djibelor.



-12-
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
45.   The actual government contribution of about US$3.0 million a year (at 1996 exchange
rates) covers only salaries. To adequately maintain the consolidated network of infrastructure
(including minor investments) and the level of activities proposed for the next phase, ISRA
requires an additional US$2.0 million/year approximately. This means that ISRA will not be
able to operate, even with the proposed consolidated infrastructure network, without major donor
support. If Government's contribution cannot be increased, ISRA's ability to maintain its
present levels of staff and activities will be threatened.
46.  ISRA's sustainability also depends largely on its financial management capability. ISRA
remains unable to produce reliable and timely financial and cost management accounting data.
Cost effectiveness of its activities cannot therefore be properly monitored.
47.   Supporting regional applied and adaptive research and getting the researchers out of their
stations has been successful. ISRA has been regionalized. On-farm research has been developed
and ISRA strategic plan has been elaborated region by region with farmers and extension staff.
These reforms were conducted in line with project objectives. Their sustainability, however, is
directly linked to: (a) the Government's adoption of ISRA's new legal status (EPST); (b) ISRA's
capacity to improve its financial and administrative management; and (c) ISRA's willingness to
reduce its scope of activities or the Government's intention to increase its contribution.
E.   BANK PERFORMANCE
48.  Identification. Project identification took place in July 1987 on the basis of a document
prepared by ISRA. Research programs and general orientations of the project were designed to
support the implementation of ISRA's Five-year Plan. Institutional issues were identified as
major weaknesses that needed to be addressed before project appraisal. The Bank's performance
in this phase of the project cycle was satisfactory.
49.   Preparation. A pre-appraisal mission (May 1988) reviewed the Five-year Plan and made
technical and financial recommendations. As far as institutional reforms were concerned, the
mission received assurances from Government that action would be taken regarding government
financial commitment and ISRA's organizational decree, and that decisions would be
communicated to the Bank within three months. This did not happen, but project preparation
continued.
50.   Appraisal.  In spite of two appraisal missions (November 1988 and February 1989),
the Government did not meet the requirements. The Bank decided to continue with the project
and changed the requirements to conditions of negotiations.  Government's financial
commitment was only partially solved a week before negotiations. ISRA's organizational decree
was made a condition of credit effectiveness during negotiations. Credit effectiveness was one
year delayed, while waiting for the Government to adopt ISRA organizational decree. During
implementation, the organizational decree was found to be inconsistent with the project's



-13-
objectives because it organized research in national sectorial departments which were not
appropriate to the stated goal of promoting regional research programs. At project completion,
the adoption of a new legal status that would allow to revise the organizational decree is still
pending.
51.  In between the two appraisal missions, an apparent lack of coordination among different
task managers created confusion regarding the requested level of Government's contribution to
ISRA. Under the Structural Adjustment Program, the Government and IDA had agreed that
Government's contribution to ISRA would be reduced by 50 per cent within five years. Under
the Second Agricultural Research Project, IDA requested the Government to maintain its
contribution to ISRA at the same level as before, for the duration of the project.
52.   During project preparation, the World Bank team had agreed with ISRA management that
it would reduce the number of its sites. This requirement was dropped at appraisal. At project
completion, the level of ISRA infrastructure remains a problem. In addition, not enough
attention was given to the need for station rehabilitation and improving station management.
53.   Supervision. A total of 15 supervision missions visited project sites with ISRA staff to
monitor project implementation progress. The project benefited from a high degree of qualified
expertise during supervision (see Table 13). In general, Bank supervision missions clearly
identified outstanding issues and produced precise recommendations helpful to both ISRA
management and the Government. The USAID-funded NRBAR project provided physical
resource management and development expertise to assist Bank missions.
54.   The mid-term review was conducted jointly by ISRA, the Bank and other donors (French
Cooperation, IDRC, USAID, and FAO). It resulted in a comprehensive analysis of ISRA and
detailed recommendations on the necessary institutional reforms, research programs content, and
methodology, as well as linkages between research, extension, and farmers' organizations.
55.   One important discipline lacking in supervision was financial management. The Project
Completion Report of the First Agricultural Research Project states: "Perhaps the single most
important constraint to the operational effectiveness of ISRA was its limited capacity to manage
its financial resources." The fact that this statement remains valid at the conclusion of the second
project is a regretful indictment of the donors' and ISRA's ability to correct this situation, despite
the heavy involvement of consultants. On the Bank side, it is not evident that any properly
qualified financial management specialist had been involved in implementation prior to
September 1992; by then many of the major decisions relating to ISRA's accounting systems and
supporting equipment had already been taken.
56.   Another important factor is the limited development of accounting and auditing in
Senegal (which is nevertheless one of the best developed countries in this domain in
Francophone Africa). This may partly account for the questionable recommendation by ISRA's
auditor for a centralized accounting system. The Bank did not react to the recommendation
(when the general trend was already towards decentralization and PC-based networks) probably



-14-
because this activity was funded under the USAID/NRBAR project and Bank staff did not want
to create donor-induced conflicts within the Institute.
57.   One may also wonder why the Bank did not react more strongly to ISRA's repeatedly
qualified audits. In the Bank staff's defense, it should be noted that major qualifications were
unrelated to ISRA's internal management (such as the issue of the reconciliation between the
accounts of the Government Accountant and the ones of ISRA's Chief Accountant). For other
problems such as fixed assets, the Institute gave the assurance that the problem was being taken
care of. The fact that ISRA had a heavy financial management consulting presence also
reassured Bank staff. Finally, until 1994 the auditor's opinion did not reveal the depth of ISRA's
financial management problems, supported by the fact that the newly recruited auditors issued a
disclaimer of opinion for the 1995 accounts. Serious delays in the submission of audit reports
did not help correct, in a timely fashion, the weaknesses reported by the auditor.
F.   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
58.  Implementation. The project was implemented by ISRA. Government provided more
funding than the level initially agreed upon in the Development Credit Agreement. In 1993,
however, the Ministry of Finances wanted to decrease ISRA's budget by 14 percent and the Bank
had to remind the Government of its financial commitment. The agreed upon contribution was
subsequently reinstated.
59.   Compliance with legal covenants was mixed: (i) ISRA submitted its work program and
budget. However, the October 31 deadline, as set forth in the dated covenant was never honored;
(ii) bi-annual progress reports were not sent systematically; (iii) as mentioned earlier, physical
infrastructure was not properly maintained; (iv) the commercial company for revenue earning
activities was never established for reasons already analyzed; however, the unit was finally made
financially and administratively autonomous; and (v) financial management was poor. Other
dated covenants were complied with.
60.  ISRA officials participated actively in Bank supervision missions and in the write-up of
the missions' aide memoires. However, agreed recommendations were not always implemented.
This was particularly the case with regard to the legal framework, human resources management,
financial and administrative management and infrastructure maintenance.
61.  Institutional issues. The Government has been extremely slow (since mid-1994) in
processing the documentation for the new institutional framework. At project completion, it
remains pending.
62.   Financial management was poor. Audits reports were repeatedly qualified. Operating
expenses increased considerably in real terms during 1994 and 1995. Starting 1996, the newly
appointed Director General imposed severe measures to control the use of operating funds.
Because adequate procedures for the acquisition and use of routine consumables (especially
vehicle management and maintenance) did not exist or were not followed, and because fixed



-15-
assets and stock accounting were weak, the reasons for the increase have not been clearly
identified. A detailed analysis will be carried out by the external auditor in order to determine
the exact origin of these increases. In 1996, ISRA appointed an inventory accountant with
USAID support to carry out a complete infrastructure and equipment inventory and produce a
manual of procedures. This work was not completed at the time of the implementation
completion mission.
63.   Supervision of civil works, by the "Bureau d'appui Technique" of ISRA was weak,
which may explain some of the deficiencies in civil works program implementation. Research
infrastructure and equipment were not properly maintained.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
64.   The project is rated marginally satisfactory. Project objectives were relevant. In terms of
efficacy, results are mixed. Regarding institutional development objectives, the impact has been
negligible on human resources and financial and administrative management. However, the
organization and management of research programs, and linkages with users have improved
substantially.   Regarding research results, despite ISRA's weak institutional capacity,
achievements have also been substantial. Had the project been more successful in strengthening
ISRA's overall management, it is likely that more research results could have been obtained.
Therefore, the project is rated poorly regarding the efficiency criteria.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
65.  In June 1995, the government requested the Bank to support a follow-up project based on
a four-pronged approach: research, extension services, producer organizations, and Ministry
restructuring. The objective is to promote a stronger partnership between agricultural services
(research and extension) and producer organizations, with producers jointly defining the research
and extension programs with the agricultural services, allocating resources, and evaluating
results. The new design should make agricultural services more accountable to users. On the
research side, the new project will also include ITA: post-harvest and agroprocessing research are
crucial complements to production research and were not included in the first two projects. The
new project will build upon the recently adopted laws for decentralization that devolve
responsibilities to local and regional collectivities. The reorganization of the Ministry services,
including extension, will allow decentralization by involving regional/local collectivities in the
programming and management of agricultural services.
66.   For ISRA, taking into account the experiences and lessons leamed, the preparation of the
new operation focuses on:
* the legal context (EPST law, a new Reglement d'Etablissement for ISRA and a new
organizational decree that institutionalizes research regionalization);
* new financial management system, including cost-accounting;



-16-
* the 1998-2010 Strategic Plan, with priority-setting and establishing regional research
teams;
* downsizing and consolidating the network of infrastructure with a view to achieve
ISRA's sustainability by the end of the third phase;
* collaboration with ITA on agroprocessing and post-harvest technology programs and
with other Institutes and the National University in such domains as publications and
documentation; and
* improved station management.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
67.   Scope of research institutes. After two phases of IDA investments, ISRA is not yet an
institution sustainable on government funding alone, at its present level of activities, personnel
and network of infrastructure. During the preparation of the second phase, the Bank requested
that ISRA management set stringent priorities among the activities identified under the Five-year
Plan as a condition for negotiations, however, it did not squarely address the issue of
infrastructure network and fixed costs. The question of adequacy between the Institute's scope
and available financial resources which should have been a concern from the commencement of
the first project, is being directly addressed within the context of the preparation of the third
phase. Consolidation and downsizing of infrastructure and staff to a level sustainable by
Government should be a priority concern for the government and a prerequisite for the Bank at
the onset of involvement with research institutes to avoid promoting research institutes that are
unsustainable.
68.   Human resources management and capacity building.  ISRA's difficulties in
improving its financial and administrative management can be traced, by and large, to
insufficiently qualified and motivated staff. There can be no institutional development without
qualified personnel. Even though ISRA's staff is contractual, ISRA management was not able or
not willing to replace unqualified personnel with better qualified staff. ISRA's management also
shied away from implementing a merit-based personnel review system. This situation is not
specific to ISRA or to Senegal. It shows the limits of a strategy of institutional development and
capacity building for agricultural research without the support of an overall Government policy.
69.   Financial management. The continuing failure of its supervisory bodies to enforce a
strict accountability for ISRA's financial management and the lack of suitably qualified
accounting personnel are the root cause of ISRA's inefficient and unreliable financial
management. Effective financial management of research institutes is a prerequisite for the
success of research objectives. Qualified financial Bank staff should be directly involved at all
stages of project preparation and implementation. However, it is primarily, the government's
responsibility to ensure cost effectiveness and financial discipline in research institutions.



-17-
70.  Importance of agroprocessing research. Agroprocessing and post-harvest technology
research were not included in the first two phases of Bank involvement. And yet, any analysis of
potential agricultural sector development in Senegal shows that the opportunities for added-value
and growth in that sub-sector may be relatively important compared with productivity gains in
production. Though it would complicate projects when more than one research institution and
ministry are involved, such as in the case of Senegal, the Bank should consider investing
simultaneously in postharvest and production research.
71.   Adapting or generating technologies  The IDA project underlined, rightly so, the
importance of adapting already existing technologies to the specific circumstances of various
production systems (agro-ecological and socio-economic conditions), rather than focusing solely
on technology generation. International scientific collaboration should also be promoted to
maintain a research institute's access to advanced technology. Such a strategy of adaptive
research should be pursued as a joint venture with extension services and producer organizations,
wherever they are strong enough to be research partners.
72.   Bank technical support for infrastructure development. The Bank should ensure that
the Borrower's capacity to review technical and engineering plans is adequate and that such
plans have been carefully evaluated prior to giving its no objection.
73.   Research station management and development. Research stations demand a high
level of management skills and careful planning of use of resources, activities, and staff.
Research project preparation must therefore give adequate attention to station management and
ensure that support services are properly budgeted.



-18-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 2107-SE)
Part H: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantia        Partial        Negligible      Not licable
Macro Policies                      1=              a=E
Sector Policies                                     [] a                                El
Financial Objectives                 =              I                                   E0
Institutional Development             l              =               la                 E
Physical Objectives                                  El               1                 i:i
Poverty Reduction                   E               la                a                 E
Gender Issues                       1                =                [=1
Other Social Objectives             [                E                E
Environmental Objectives                            []                E                 El
Public Sector Management             a               E                                  El
Private Sector Development          El                l               El 
Other (specify)                     E                E                E                 I3
(Continued)
B. Project Sustaiabilitv               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                       (/)                       (/)
El1                        El



-19-
H ghly
C. Bank Perfonnance                     satisfar              Satisfacorv                 Deficient
(/)                      (1)                       (/)
Identification                       a                                                  1=a
Preparation Assistance              E                         0                         cl
Appraisal                                                     0                         El
Supervision                                      E0
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactoU    SatisfaZ=x        Deficient
(/)             (e)             (/)
Preparation                                   E               0
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                           n                               El
Operation (if applicable)                                     EC
Highl                                              HghlY
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Unaif&QUuy        unsatisfactor
El              El               El                El
Marginally satisfactory



-20-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Principal      Fiscal
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                 in US S Million    Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding operation
Agricultural Research    Strengthening of agricultural research    19.5         1982    Completed
(Cr. 11760-SEN)       capability                                                         December 31, 1989
Eastern Senegal Rural   Support to agricultural diversification from  16.1      1984    Completed
(Cr. 14060-SEN)       groundnuts to cotton                                               June 30, 1991.
Irrigation TA         Support to the financial and institutional    4.9         1986    Completed
(Cr. 16320-SEN)       strengthening of the Senegal River Valley                          December 31, 1988
Authority
Irrigation IV         Support to rehabilitation and improved       33.6         1988    Completed
(Cr. 18550-SEN)       management of smallholder perimeters                               December 31, 1995
Small rural Operations   Support to groups of farmers with an array  16.1       1989    Ongoing
I1 (Cr. 19920-SEN)    of productive activities
Following operation
Agricultural services  Promotion of effective crop and livestock   17.1         1990    Ongoing
(Cr. 2 1080-SEN)      extension services based on results from
1988 and 1989 pilot activities
Ag SECAL              Support to deepening of structural            45          1995    Ongoing
(Cr. 27380-SEN)       adjustment and institutional strengthening.
Ibid, additional funds to compensate for
Ag SECAL              currency depreciation of the US$              2.8         1996    Ongoing
(Cr. 27381-SEN)
Ag SECAL              Ibid                                          1.8         1997    Ongoing
(Cr. 27382-SEN)
I_    _    .. .....           .



-21-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Actual date
Steps in project cycle             Date planned                latest estimate
Identification                      N/A.                        February 1988
Preparation                                                     May, 1988
Appraisal                           October/ November 1988      October/November 88,
February 89
Negotiations                        January 1990                January 1990
Board presentation                  March 13, 1990              March 22, 1990
Signing                             April 24, 1990              April 24, 1990
Effectiveness                       July 24, 1990               January 23 1991
Mid-term review                                                 January 1994, January 1995
First re-allocation of funds                                    March 1995
Second re-allocation of funds                                   August 1996
Project completion                  June 1995                   June 1996
Credit closing                      December 1995              | December 31, 1996
The first identification mission recorded in project files is July 1987. However, in the MOP, the first
mission recorded is May 1998
The mid-term review was done in two phases
Table 4: Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 91      FY 92       FY 93      FY 94       FY 95      FY 96
Appraisal estimate             3.0       7.0        12.0        15.0       17.0        18.5
Actual                         1.5       2.7        6.0         11.2       16.1        20.1
Actual as % of estimate        50        39          50         75          95         109
Date of final disbursement
Final disbursement yet to be made. On March 23, 1997, the undisbursed balance of the credit was US $ 48,548.



-22-
Table 5: Key indicator for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR/            Unit          Estimated          Actual
President's Report
1. Civil Works
New ISRA Headquarters in Dakar               headquarters           1                 I
Rehabilitation research sitesz               research site        none                7
2. Vehicles:
Double cabin Mitsubishi                           car               -                23
Renault 21 break                                  car               -                 10
Renault 19 liaison                                car               -                  7
4. Office equipment
PC Desk                                           unit              -                66
PC portable                                       unit              -                 10
Central AS 400                                    unit              -                  2
Onudlateur                                        unit              -                 30
Printer                                           unit              -                 92
scanner                                           unit              -I
accessories                                       unit              -I
screen                                            unit              -                  1
5. Training
Ph.D. *                                                                                8
Ms *                                                                                  10
Short term                                                                            10
4. Technical Assistance
A. Foreign                                    stafflweek            -               371
(a)
B. Local                                      staff/week            -               156
(a)
* financed by USAID and French aid
2   Although site's plan and tender documents were prepared, no work of rehabilitation station plots was done at project
completion



-23-
Table SA. AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGIES DEVELOPED BY ISRA
DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
RESEARCH DOMAIN                                     TCHNOLOGDEVELOPED
ZONE DES NIAYES
Technologie aprts recolte    1. Abri-sechoir A oignon
Pratiques Culturales        2. Technique des bulbilles; 3. Techniques de p6piniere en mottes
Production Animale          4. Rations alimentaires pour la production de viande; 5. Rations alimentaires pour la
production de lait de vache; 6. Rations alimentaires pour la production de lait de
chtvre; 7. Plans indicatifs pour la construction d'etables
Developpement varietal
>  Manioc                   8. Kombo 2; 9. Cocoli I
=> Patate douce              10. Clone 29 au "Jaboot"; 11. Ndargu
=> Tomate                    12. XINA 8-4-1-11
ZONE MARITIME
Equipement et engins de peches  13. Pirogue amelioree type ATEPAS; 14. Pirogue ameliorde type SOSACHIM
15. Pirogue amelioree type FAO; 16. Filet dormant mono-filament a sole
17. Filet tremail
Conservation et transformation
des produits de la peche     18. Fumage A froid; 19. Tente solaire; 20. Four Chorkor; 21. Four Parpaing
ZONE DU FLEUVE
Creation varietale          22. IR1529 (cycle moyen); 23. ITA306 (Cycle moyen); 24. BW293-2 (cycle moyen)
Defense des cultures        25. D6sherbage au Rundup 5 I/ha sur 2001 d'eau; 26. 81/ha de propanil +2-4-D
Elevage                     27. Ration A base de paille de brousse + fane d'arachide ou de nied  + son fm de riz +
poudre d'os A raison de 4kglbovin
28. Ration a base de paille de brousse + fane d'arachide ou de niebe + son fm de riz +
poudre d'os embouche ovine
29. Fane d'arachide et concentre pour embouche
30. Transfert de la technique de d6paratisatage i I'Exhelm, l'Ivomec, la Cydectine
31. Stockage des eaux de ruissellement par amenagement des mares
Outils d'aide A la decision  32. Programme de calcul pour la determination de doses de fumures minerales
compatibles avec la tresorerie des producteurs
33. Programme de calcul pour aide au choix d'equipements
34. Fiches techniques pour la gestion de materiels motorises
Gestion de 1'eau            35. Determination de doses d'irrigation
36. D6termination des frequences d'irrigation economique
37. Determination des besoins d'irrigation par aspersion sur sol )>Dieri >> pour riz, mars,
mil, tomate, oignon, pomme de terre
Machinisme agricole         38. Adaptation d'une batteuse a poste fixe de fabrication locale



-24-
ZONE SYLVOPASTORALE
Technologies foresti6res et  39. Pare-feu nu, 40. Banque fourragere
agroforestieres              41. Identification de la p6riode optimale de saign6e d'Acacia senegal
42. Sdlection de gommiers a haut rendement
43. Outils d'optimisation des saign6es des gommiers
44. Selection d'especes ligneuses performantes en haies vives
45. Technique de r6colte des semences forestibres
46. Technique de conservation des semences forestieres
Sante et productions animales    47. Deparasitage des animaux (Exhelm, Ivomec, Cydectine)
48. Compl6mentation avec de la graine de coton A raison de I kg/UBT/jour
49. Blocs melasse/urde
Materiel agricole            50. Faucheuse a traction animale/adaptation
Gestion des sols             51. Etables fumiOres
Defense des cultures         52. Lutte contre la teigne de choux
53. Lutte contre la teigne de la pomme de terre
Production veg6tale          54. Semis de mil avec disques a quatre trous (Semis manuel en poquet ou disque A 8
trous genere par les producteurs)
ZONE CENTRE NORD. BASSIN
ARACHIDIER
Creation varietale
=: mil:                      55. SOSAP S58; 56. GB 8735; 57. ITCP 8201\
=*  arachide:                58. Fleur I 1; 59. GC 8-35
=>  ni6b6:                   60. Mouride; 61. Melakh; 62. Diongoma et vari6t6s fourrageres
Matieres organiques:         63. Compost + fumier A la dose de 4 tonnes/ha pour mil et sorgho
64. Utilisation de faibles doses de matiere organique
Production vegetale          65. Modele pour la prdvision des recoltes d'arachide (ARABHY)
Gestion de 1'eau             66. M6thode de conduite de l'irrigation de l'arachide
ZONE Sup BASsIN ARACHIDIER
Cr6ation varidtale
>  Sorgho                    67. F 220
>  MaYs:                     68. CP 75
=  arachide:                 69. Fleur 11
'> coton:                    70. IRMA 96; 71. IRMA 97; 72. IRMA 124
Travail du sol               73. Techniques de travail du sol (radou baling)
74. Travail du sol A la dent en traction bovine
Stockage et conservation     75. Stockage des semences d'arachide sous atmosphere contr6lde



-25-
Productions animales
>  Reserves fourrageres      76. Traitement a l'uree des fourrages pauvres; 77. Ensilage
Gestion des ressources       78. Schema d'amenagement integre des bassins versants
naturelles                   79. Modele de gestion de 1'eau et de la fertilite a differentes echelles
Agroforesterie               80. Haies de lutte anti-erosive
ZONE BASSE ET MOYENNE
CASAMANCE
Creation varietale
=: rizdebas-fondAcycle       81. BW248-1; 82BW348-1; 83. BG90-2
moyen:
=  riz de bas-fond A cycle   84. ITA 123; 85. ITA 212
court:
=' riz de nappe:             86. Tox 728-1
=> sorgho:                   87. Malisor 84-1; 88. F2-20
Machinisme agricole          89. Semoir monorang A traction manuelles DJ-Eco sur billon
90. Semoir A 4 rangs a traction animale
91. Disque distribution pour semoir Eco pour riz, mil, mals
92. Decortiqueur A Nere (Parkia biglobosa) ; technologie generee dans le cadre d'une
collaboration ISRA/CADEF
93. Sarcleuse manuelle
Travail du sol               94. Adaptation du roliculteur a la preparation du lit de semences de riz
Gestion de l'eau             95. Modele de gestion des ouvrages anti-sel (digues et barrages)
ZONE SENEGAL ORIENTAL
HAUTE CASAMANCE
Coton                        96. Guide sur les methodes et applications pratiques de l'evaluation de l'impact de la
recherche agricole
Gestion de la fertilit6 des sols    97. Rotation quadriennale (( cereale-arachide-coton-c6reale o
98. Modulation de la dose de fertilisation min6rale en fonction des dates de semis
Productions animales         99. Amelioration genetique par un systeme de selection dit A (( noyau ouverto (SAGNO)
100. Modeles d'6tables fumieres permettant l'am6lioration du fumier et l'utilisation des
aliments distribues.



-26-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key implementation indicators in SAR/       Unit            Estimated      Actual
President's Report
Not included in SAR
Table 7: Studies included in the project
A large number of research papers and studies have been completed during the project. These include:
SOIL AND WATER MANAGMENT
* BADIANE, A., JACQUIN, F. GANRRY, F. et GALMALOPEZ D. 1994. The fate of nitrogen fertilizers in some
soils types. In Soil productivity and nutrient cycling in relation to Low Input Sustainable Agriculture. 15 t World
Congress of Soil Science, Mexico Commission In vol Sb pp 40-41.
* BADIANE, A. et GUEYE, F. 1992. Measuring nitrogen fixed by groundnut varieties in Senegal using 1 SN
techniques. In Biological nitrogen fixation and sustainability of tropical agriculture. Vulongoy, K. et al (eds).
* BARRY, B. 1991. Groundwater flow and quality behind an anti-salt dam in lower Cacabante, Senegal (West
Africa). Agricultural Engineering Department MSU.
* BOIVIN, P., BRUNET D., GASUEL C, ZANTE, P. et NDIAYE, J .P. 1995. Les sols argileux de la region de
Nianga-Podor : repartition, caracteristiques, aptitudes et risques de degradation sous irrigation. In Nianga:
Laboratoire de l'agriculture irriguee en moyenne vallIe du Sen6gal ORSTOM. Coll. Colloques et Seminaires, pp 67-
81.
* GANRY, F. et BADIANE A. 1991. Utilisation efficace des engrais pour accroitre la productivite vegetale:
efficience de l'uree apportee sur le maTs. In Mokwunye A.U. (ed). Alleviating soil fertility constraints to increased
crop production in West Africa. pp 227-234.
* GARIN, P. et al. 1990. Evolution du r6le du betail dans la gestion de la fertilite des terroirs sereer au Senegal.
Cahiers de la Recherche-Developpement n 26 Juin 1990, Dossier n2.
* MEHAN, V.K. et al. 1991. Field screening of groundnuts for resistance to seed infection by aspergillus flovus
Oleagineux 46 (3).
* NDIAYE, J.P. et BARRY. B. 1995. Fonctions de production, isoquantes et doses optimales d'azote, de phosphore
et de potassium pour quelques cultures dans la moyenne vallee du Fleuve Senegal. In Nianga : Laboratoire de
I'agriculture irriguee en moyenne Vallee du Senegal ORSTOM. Coll. Colloques et Seminaires, pp 223-242
* NDOYE, I. et GUEYE, M. 1993. Les symbioses Acacia-Rhizobium. Comparaison de la fixation d'azote chez
quatre especes d'acacia saheliens. Bois et Forets des Tropiques 238 : 21-34.



-27-
* SENE, M. PEREZ, P. et ALBERGEL, J. 1995. Signification de la valorisation de 1'eau pluviale au Senegal.
Gestion du ddficit et de l'exces hydrique In Ganry F. et Campbell B (eds). Actes Atelier Gestion durable des terres
en regions semi-arides et subhumides. Senegal 15-19 Nov. 1993.
* SENE, M. 1995. Influence de l'etat hydrique et du comportement mecanique du sol sur l'implantation et la
fructification de I'arachide. These Doctorat Ecole Nationale Superieure Agronomique de Montpellier 174 p.
* SENE, M. et PEREZ, P. 1994. Contraintes et possibilites de valorisation des ressources naturelles dans le Sud du
bassin arachidier (Sine Saloum, Senegal). In Reyniers F.N. et NETOYO L. (eds). Bilan hydrique agricole et
secheresse en Afrique Tropicale. pp 217-234.
* SOW, H.O. 1996. Etudes des effets des amendements mineraux sur l'amelio-ration fonciere des sols salsodiques et
acides et sur la culture de riz au niveau du delta du Fleuve Senegal. Memoires DEA, Institut des Sciences de
I'Environnement.
* SYLLA, M. 1994. Soil salinity and acidity: Spatial variability and effects on rice production in West Africa's
mangrove zone. Ph.D thesis Wageningen.
* WALIYAR, F. et al. 1994. Source of resistance to asergillus flov  and aflatoxin contamination in groundnut
genotypes in West Africa. The American Phyto-pathological Society.
* Natural RESSOURCES MANAGEMENT
* BADIANE, A. 1993. Le statut organique d'un sol sableaux de la zone centre-nord du S6negal. These Doctorat
d'Universite. Inst. Nat. Polytech. Lorraine. 197 p.
* BADJI, S. et al. 1991. Vegetative propagation studies of gum arabic trees. I. Propagation of accia senegal (L.)
Wild using liquified cutings of small diamneter with eight nodes. Agroforestry Systems. 14: 183-191.
* DEANS, J.D. et al. 1995. Tree growth and plant nutrients in the acacia tree fellows systems of land rehabilitation in
the Sahel.
* Actes Congres Forestier Mondial Helsinki, Norvege. Aofit 1995.
* DIAW, 1. 1994. Caracterisation d'un sol sale du delta du Fleuve Sdnegal : fertilisation du riz aux engrais mineraux.
Memoire de fm d'etudes d'ingenieur de conception, Institut des Sciences de l'Environnement/UCAD.
* DIONE, M. 1996. Recherches exp*ri-mentales sur le gommier acaia Senegal dans le Ferlo senegalais. These
Doctorat Universite Paul Sabatier Toulouse 150p.
* DIONE, M. 1993. Etude experimentale des modalites de la production gommiere de acacia senegal. Retrospective
des programmes de developpement gommier au Sahel Senegalais. Proceedings of the 5w" workshop, Sondebjord
(Danmark) KVTL, Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University, Copenhague.
* DIOP, T. et al. 1994. Acacia du Sahel: Un espoir pour l'agriculture. La Recherche 269 (25): 1045-1047.
* DIOP, A.T. 1991. L'utilisation de la traction asine pour la fauche des parcours naturels. Revue Senegalaise des
Recherches Agricoles et Halieutiques. vol 3 (3).
* GUEYE, M. 1991. Acacia albida : nodulation by fast and slow growing rhizobia. In Faidherbia albida in the West
African semi-arid tropics Vandelbelt, R.J. (ed).
* SALL, Ch. Et al. 1992. Paturage mixte et complementarite des ruminants domestiques en piturages. Revue
Senegalaise des Recherches Agricoles et Halieutiques vol 4 (1): 11-20.



-28-
* SOW, R.S. et al. 1992. Note sur la barymetrie comme moyen de selection indirect du poids vif. Rev. Elev. Med.
Vet. Pays Trop. 44 (1): 97-100
* SOW, RS. et al. 1992. Influence des facteurs de l'environnement sur la croissance avant sevrage des moutons
peulh. Revue Senegalaise de Recherches Agricoles et Halieutiques vol 4 (1): 1-10
* TAMBA, A. 1995. L'integration de I'arbre dans les perimetres hydroagricoles de la vallee du Fleuve Senegal. In
Nianga: laboratoire de l'agriculture irriguee en moyenne vallee du S6negal ORSTOM. Coll. Colloques et
Seminaires, pp 107-115
* VASSAL, J. et DIONE, M. 1993. Les acacias gommiers au Sahel: Exsudation gommiere et production.
* Perspectives. In Natural ressources and social conflicts in the Sahel Proceeding 5h Sahel workshop 4-6 January
1993
* Brimer Krogh L. and Meyer M. editors.
LIVESTOCK
* BA, 0. 1992. Contribution a l'etude du systeme de production laitiere de la vache Ndama (Bos taurus) en Haute
Casamance: contraintes et strategies d'amelioration. These Doctorat d'Etat Ecole Inter-Etats Sc. Med. Vet.
* DIALLO, N.A. 1992. Evaluation des etables fumieres de Haute Casamance (Senegal). Memoire Dipl6me
Agronomie Tropicale CNEARC/ESAT Montpellier.
* FALL, A. 1995. Factors affecting feedintake, energy expenditure and work output of oxen and bulls used for
draught purposes in Semi-arid West Africa. Ph.D thesis Edingburg, England.
* FALL, A. et FAYE, A. 1992. Les <( etables fumieres >>: une voie pour l'intensification de l'elevage bovin
trypanotolerant au Sud du Senegal.
* FALL, A. 1990. An alternative selection scheme for Ndama Cattle in Senegal. Animal Science Papers and Reports
n 6: 153-162.
* FAYE, A. 1993.Situation et perspectives de l'elevage bovin dans les systemes agropastoraux denses de la zone
sahelo-soudanienne : Le cas du Sud du bassin arachidier du Sendgal. These de Doctorat Ecole Nationale Superieure
Agronomique de Montpellier.
* FAYE, A. et FALL, A. 1992. Le systbme d'elevage en Haute Casamance : caracteristiques, contraintes et
problematique de recherche. Actes seminaires sur Acquis Recherche Zootechnique et Veterinaire en Haute
Casamance, Kolda, 12 et 13 Mars 1991.
* FAYE, A. 1995. Farmer's participation in livestock research/action : Case study of peanut fathening operations in
the Upper Casamance Senegal. Actes atelier organise par African Development Foundation (A.D.F.), Washington,
Oct. 1990.
* ICKOWICZ, A.E. 1995. Bilans fourragers sur parcours pastoraux et agro-pastoraux sahelo-soudaniens.
Perspectives d'application a la gestion des terroirs. VIIIh Int. Cong. Institutions Trop. Vet. Med. Sept. 25-29, Berlin,
Germany.
* NTEGEYIBIZAZA, S. 1991. Productivite du betail Ndama au Centre de recherches zootechniques de Kolda. These
Doctorat d'Etat. Ecole Inter-Etats Sc. Med. Vet./UCAD, DAKAR.
* PEARSON, R A. and FALL, A. 1993. Research ont the nutrition of draught animals. In Human and Draught
Animal Power in crop production (ed.s. 0. NEIL, D.H. and HENDRIKSEN G. pp 40-49.



-29-
AGROFORESTRY
* DIATTA, M. 1994. Mise en defense et techniques agroforestieres au Sine Saloum (Sen6gal). Effet sur la
conservation de l'eau, du sol et sur la production primaire. Th6se Doctorat Universit6 Scientifique Louis Pasteur.
Strasbourg. 202 p. + annexes.
* DIATTA, M. et MATTY, F. 1993. Dynamique de la v6g6tation ligneuse sur d'anciennes terres de cultures sur
cuirasse au Senegal. In. Floret C. et SERPANTIER, G. La jachere en Afrique de l'Ouest. Editions ORSTOM. Paris
461 p.
* NDOUR, B. et al. 1992. Using Delph method for determining criteria in agroforestery research planning in
developping countries. Agroforestery Systems.voll9 (2).
* SENE, M. et DIATTA, M. 1990. La place de I'arbre et le r6le des techniques culturales dans l'amenagement du
terroir au bassin arachidier. In. R6seau Erosion. Bull. n I 1: 68-81.
CEREALSTORAGE
* Lognay et al. 1994. D6tection de mol6cules responsables de l'activite biocide des feuilles de Boscia senegatensis
par 6chantillonnage d'espace de tete et spectrometrie de masse coupl6e a la chromotographie en phase gazeuse. Bull.
Rech. Agron. Gembloux.
* SECK, D. et al. 1993. Biological activity of the shrub Boscia senealensis on stored grain insects. J. Chem.
Ecology 19 (2): 377 - 390.
* SECK , D. et al. 1993. Biological activity of the shrub Boscia snegalengis on stored grain insects. J. Chem.
Ecology 19 (2): 377 - 390.
* SECK, D. et GASPAR, C. 1992.Efficacite du stockage du ni6be (Vign unguic (L) Walp) en fits metalliques
hermetiques comme methode alternative de controle de callosobruchus aulatus. F. en Afrique Sahelienne. Med.
Fac. Lanbounw Rijkouniv. Gent 57 (3a): 751-758.
* SECK, D. 1991. Importance et develop-pement d'une approche de lutte integree contre les insectes ravageurs des
stocks de maIs, de mil et de niebe en zone sah6lienne. Revue Sen6galaise des Recheches Agricoles et Halieutiques.
Vol 3 (3).
* SECK, D. et al. 1991. La protection des stocks de niebe (Yigna unguXlQat (L) (Nalp) en milieu rural: utilisation
de differentes formulations a base de neem (Azadirachta indica) provenant du Senegal. Med, Fac. Landbounw
Rijkouniv. Gent 56 (3b): 1217-1224.
PEST AND DESEASE CONTROL
* MEHAN, V.K et al. 1991. Field screening of groundnuts for resistance to seed infection by anergilflus flovus
OIlagineux 46 (3).
* WALIYAR, F. et al. 1994. Source of resistance to aspergillb flawus and aflatoxin contamination in groundnut
genotypes in West Africa. The American Phyto-pathological Society.
FARMING SYSTEMS
* GAYE, M. 1994. Emergence des petits groupements de producteurs ruraux au Senegal: Une altemativ aux
Cooperatives officielles ? Annale de l'Economie Publique, Sociale et Cooperative. CIRIEC vol 65 (3).



-30-
* GAYE, M. 1991. Le desengagement de l'Etat et la problematique des intrants agricoles au Senegal. Revue
Senegalaise des Recherches Agricoles et Halieutiques. Vol 3 n3-4: 87-94.
* KAMUANGA, M. et SALL, S. 1993. Reinforcing research-extension linkages in Southern Senegal: Evidence of
adaptive research output. Quartely Journal of International Agricultura. Vol. 32 (2): 188-198.
* LERICOLLAIS, A. et FAYE, A. 1994. Des troupeaux sans paturages en pays sereer au Senegal. A la croisee des
parcours. Pasteurs, eleveurs, cultivateurs In ORSTOM editions collections, Colloques et Seminaires. Paris 1994.
* SARR, D. Y. 1995. Cadre d'analyse de la gestion et conservation des ressources naturelles. Reflexions et
Perspectives. Vol 6 (1) 12 p.
* SARR, D.Y. 1995. Participation d'une communaute villageoise A l'amenagement de son terroir. Note
methodologique vol 6 (1) 14 p.
* SARR, D. Y. 1995. L'approche paysanne de l'Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA): du paysan pilote
au paysan partenaire de la recherche. Cahiers d'Infornation vol 9 (2): 13 p.
* SARR, D. 1991. Segmentation of family farms within two ethnic groups in Senegal: The Serer and the Wolof.
These de Ph.D Universite d'Etat de Michigan.
* SONKO, M.L. et FALL, A. 1992. Recueil de donnees technico-economiques de production en Basse Cacabante.
FAO Rome CT n 7 CMT 37503 66 p.
RICE
* DJIBA, S. 1992. Dynamique de population et lutte contre les ChilQ (Lepidotera, Pyralidae) borers du riz en
Cacabante. In Actes du deuxieme seminaire sur la lutte integrde contre les ennemis des cultures vivrieres dans le
Sahel. UCTR/CILSS Bamako, Mali 4-9 Janvier 1990 pp 196-207 Ed. John Libbey.
* MBODJ, Y. 1991. La moisissure des grains de riz en Cacabante Nature et frequence d'isolement des agents
pathogenes presents. Recherche de moyens d'ameliorer la qualite des grains par la desinfection chimique. Revue
Senegalaise des Recherches Agricoles et Halieutiques. Vol 3.
HQRTICULTURE
* AMBROSINO, M. et SECK, P.A. 1995. Strategies concues au Cap-Vert pour assainir la filiere horticole. Bull.
Regional FAO n9 Oct. 1995.
* SECK, P.A. et AMBROSINO, M. 1995. Identification de quelques pistes de reflexion face aux problemes de la
fiUiFre horticole Mauritanienne. Bull. Regional FAO sur l'Horticulture n9 Oct. 1995.
* SECK, P.A. 1992. Quelques mesures de relance pour le secteur maraecher sendgalais . ISRA sdrie Reflexions et
Perspectives. Vol. 3 (1).
* SECK, P.A. et SIDIBE, M. 1991. Rentabilite des exploitations maraich6res. Mythe ou realite ? Bull. R6gional FAO
sur l'Horticulture. Oct. 1991.
* SECK, P.A. 1991. Progres technique et satisfaction des besoins legumiers dakarois - un regard sur l'horizon 2002.
ISRA sdrie Reflexions et Perspectives. Vol. 2 (1).



-31-
* SECK, P.A. 1990. Pourquoi le metayage maratcher senegalais se maintient-II dans les pays en voie de
d6veloppement. Cahiers d'Information ISRA. Vol. 4 (1).
* SECK, P.A.. 1990. La filiere et l'analyse de filiere - les fondements theoriques et l'utilite pour le developpement
rural dans les P.V.P. Bull. Regional FAO sur l'horticulture. Oct. 1990.
COTTON
* DIONGUE, I. 1991. Evolution recente du complexe des ravageurs du cotonnier au Senegal et perspectives de la
protection phytosanitaire. Revue Senegalaise des Recherches Agricoles et Halieutiques. Vol 3 (1-2): 31-41.
SOCIO ECONOMICS
* GAYE, M. 1991. Besoins en credit et endettement informel chez les paysans : Situation dans le Bassin arachidier.
ISRA serie Etudes et Documents. Vol 4 (1): 10 p. et Veterinaire en Haute Casamance, Kolda, 12 et 13 Mars 1991.
* GAYE, M. 1991. La reforme du Systeme cooperatif au Senegal : caracteristique des nouvelles structures. ISRA
serie Etudes et Documents. Vol 4 (3): 8 p.
* GAYE, M. 1991. Les commercants prives et l'approvisionnement du monde rural: cas des facteurs de production
agricole au Senegal ISRA serie Etudes et Documents. Vol 4 (4): 7 p.
* KEBE, M. et BARRY-GERARD, M. 1993. Evolution de la recherche halieutique face au dynamisme de la peche
artisanale maritime senegalaise. In Laloe et al. (ed). Questions de dynamique de l'exploitation halieutique. 413-431.
* KEBE, M. et NDIAYE, M.D. 1993. Conflits dans les pecheries cotieres en Afrique de l'Ouest: 1'exemple du
Senegal. In Horemans et Satia, B. (eds). Rapport de l'atelier sur les conflits dans les pecheries cBtieres en Afrique de
l'Ouest. DIPA/WP/53: 21-34
* KEBE, M. 1992. Credit adapte au systeme peche artisanale : gerer le risque et l'incertitude. Bonga n14, Fevrier
1992 pp 1-2.
* SECK, P.A. 1991. Ajustement structurel et agriculture. In SPORE Bull. CTA n32.
* SIDIBE, M. 1995. Effets des politiques macro-economiques sur le niveau de protection de la filiere du riz local
irrigue. In Nianga, Laboratoire de l'Agriculture Irriguee en moyenne vallee du Senegal. ORSTOM. Coll. Colloques
et Seminaires pp 449-456.
pEANUTS
* KHALFAOUI, J.L. B. 1991. Inheritance of seed dormancy in a cross between two spanish peanut cultivars. Peanut
suence 18 : 65-67.
* KHALFAOUI, J.L. B. 1991. Determination of potential root lenghts of the crop growing period in semi-arid
regions of Senegal. Agricultural and Forest Meteoroly 55 : 221-263.
* KHALFAOUI, J.L. B. 1991. Inheritance of seed dormancy in a cross b



-32-
Table 8A: Project costs
Appraisal estimate    |Latest estimate (March 97)
(US $Million)       |        (US $Million)
Component                 Local  Foreign               Local  Foreign
costs    costs     Total     costs    costs    Total
1. Civil works                         0.8       1.1       1.9      1.8       1.6       3.4
2. Equipment                           0.3       2.7       3.0       1.0      3.1       4.1
3. Vehicles                            0.1       1.1       1.2      0.1       0.8       0.9
4. Consultant, Audit, Training         0.8       0.2       1.0      0.7       1.2       1.9
5.OperatingCosts                      21.1       3.4      24.5    *33.3       2.1      35.4
6. Reserve research funds              0.1       0.9       1.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
8. Physical contingencies              0.1       0.5       0.6      0.0       0.0       0.0
9. Price contingencies                 4.3       1.4       5.7      0.0       0.0       0.0
Project cost as of 26 March, 1997   27.6     11.3      38.9      36.9       8.8     45.7
Special account **                                                                   0.6
TOTAL PROJECT CO                                                                    463
* Including US $ M 1.6 of unallocated local taxes forgone by the Govermnent
** amount not yet recovered as of March 1997
Table 8B: Project financing
Appraisal estimate            Latest estimate (March 97)
(US SMillion)                    (US $Million)
Source           Local  Foreign             Local  Foreign   Special
costs    costs    Total    costs    cost   account      Total
Government of Senegal      19.5      0.9      20.4    26.2       0.0                  26.2
IDA                         8.1      10.4     18.5    10.7       8.8      0,6         20.1
Total                      27.6      11.3     38.9    36.9       8.8      0.6
* amount not yet recovered as of March 1997



-33-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return was calculated at appraisal. Even though ex-ante and ex-post evaluation of
research programs exist, these do not provide a reasonable basis for an economic analysis.
Table 10: Status of legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Covenant       Present      fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement         Section        type          status         date         date      Description of covenant
Development        3.01 (b)      F             C                                        The Borrower shall make
Credit Agreement                                                                       the proceeds of the Credit
available to ISRA on a
non-refundable grant basis
3.02                        C                                       Procurement shall follow
Bank guidelines
4.01 (a) (i)                C                                       Borrower shall maintain in
accordance with sound
accounting practices,
records and accounts
___________  ___________               _________   ~~reflecting  SOEs
4.01 (a) (ii)               C                                       Ensure that all records are
retained for at least one
year after the audit has
been completed
4.01 (a) (iii)              C                                       Enable IDA's
representatives to examine
these records
4.01 (b) (i)                C                                       Audit of all SOEs and
Special Account at the end
of each fiscal year
4.01 (b) ii                late audits                              Furnish IDA with audit
report within six months of
the close of the fiscal year
4.01 (b) iii                C                                       Furnish IDA with records
and accounts and the audit
thereof
Project Agreement  2.02                        C                                        ISRA shall follow Bank
guidelines for procurement
2.03                        C                                       ISRA shall carry out
obligations in Sections
9.03-9.08 of the General
Conditions
2.04 (b)                                                            ISRA shall inform IDA of
any problems that



-34-
Original      Revised
Covenant        Present       fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement           Section         type           status          date          date       Description of covenant
l__________                                                  _________  encumber it or the project
2.04 (c)                      not always     January 31                   ISRA shall prepare a
complied       and July 31                 progress report on the
with           of each year                execution of the project
2.05                          C               October 31                  ISRA will furnish IDA
in December   of each year                 with its work program,
budget and financing plan
for the subsequent year
3.03                                                                      ISRA shall obtain
insurance in accordance
with appropriate practice
3.04                                         January 1,      Objective    Action plan for the
1991 and       revised in   establishment of an
January 1,     January      independent commercial
1992           1995.        production company to
New          manage its revenue
objective    earning activities and
complied    establish such a company
with.        no later than January 1,
________________   ____________         ____________                 1992
3.05 (a)                      C                                           Any increase in staff is
justified by the manpower
development study
3.05 (b)                      NC                                          funding for any new
position to be funded from
Borrower's budget
3.05 (c)                      C                                           Any research program not
in Five-year research
program will only be
carried out if complete
financing is available and
. ___________                  ____________                  __________    it is  of  high   priority
3.06                                         April 30,                    ISRA shall participate in
1990 and                    the activities of the
thereafter                  regional research technical
committees
4.01 (a)                      Qualified                                   ISRA shall maintain
audits                                     records and accounts
adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound
accounting practices its
operations and financial
condition
4.01 (b) (i)                  C                                           have its records, accounts
and financial statements
for each fiscal year audited
by independent auditors



-35-
Original     Revised
Covenant      Present      fulfillment  fulfillment
Agreement         Section        type         status        date         date      Description of covenant
4.01 (b) (ii)              Audits often                            Furnish audit report within
late                                   6 months of end of fiscal
year certified copies of the
audit report and the
audited fnancial
statements
4.01 (b) (iii)             C                                       furnish to IDA infornation
concerning records, accost
and financial statements as
well as the audit thereof
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
|'        Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources : Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned               Revised               Actual
project
Weeks    US $       Weeks       US $       Weeks     us $
Preparation                        n.a.  |              n.a.    _              15.10      31.1
Appraisal                          n.a.                 n.a.    _              26.00      77.9
negotiation - Board                n.a.                 n.a.    _               9.60      21.9
Supervision                        n.a.                 n.a.   |             116.12      300.7
Completion                         12.0      21.9       12.0       21.9         11
rTotal                             12.0  1  21.9        12.0       21.9      166.82



-36-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of    Month  Number  Days in   Specialized         Performance rating      Types of
project cycle   /year     of      the      staff skills                            problems
persons   field   represented
Implementatio   Development
n status    objective
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision 1    11/90   2        10       FA, RS        2             1            CF
Supervision 2    05/91   1        8        RS            3            3             CF, M
Supervision 3    10/91   2        5        FA, RS        3            2             CF, M
Supervision 4    02/92   2        11       A, AS         13           2             CF, M, P
Supervision 5    12/92   2        5        A, AS         2            2             CF, P, LC
Supervision 6    08/93   2        N/A      A, RS         2            2             CF, P
Supervision 7    11/93   1        N/A      RS            2            2             CF, P
Supervision 8    2/94    4        21       FA, S, AS,    2            2             CF, P
RS, IS
Supervision 9    8/94    4        N/A      RS, AS, FA, S  S            S            P
Supervision 10   11/94   2        6        RS, AS        S            S             P
Supervision 11   2/95    5        21       RS, FA, A, IS  S           S            _
Supervision 12   12/95   1        8        AS            S            S
Supervision 13   5/96   1         16       AS            S            S
LSupervision 14   1/97    3                RS,IS,AE,AS
Specialized staff: A = Agriculturalist; FA = Financial Analyst; S = Sociologist; AE = Agricultural
Economist; RS.= Research Specialist AS = Agriculturalist Services Specialist;
IS = Infrastructure specialist
Types of Problems: CF = Counterpart Funding; M = Project Management; LC = Legal Covenants;
P = Procurement Progress
Table 14: Government contribution (in 1,000 FCFA and 1,000 US$)
Expenditures
(in 1,000 FCFA)       1991      1992      1993       1994      1995       1996     TOTAL
Salaries                 914,000  1,370,000   785,000    785,000   785,000   1,085,180 5,724,180
Equipment                 500,000   500,000   500,000    500,000   500,000    500,000  3,000,000
Taxes                     22,000    38,000    73,739    147,400   213,000    243,000   737,139
Total in 1,000 FCFA     1,436,000  1,908,000  1,358,739   1,432,400  1,498,000   1,828,180  9,461,319
Expenditures (in US$)
Salaries                   3,240      5,176     2,772      1,414     1,573      2,121    16,296
Equipment                   1,772     1,889     1,766        901     1,002        977      8,307
Taxes                         78       144       260         265       427        475      1,649
Total in 1,000 US$          5,090     7,208     4,798      2,580     3,001      3,574    26,252
Bank rate 1 US$ = FCFA    282.11    264.69    283.16       555.2    499.15     511.55



-37-
Table 15: Reallocation of Funds during the Second Agricultural Research Project
(in SDR)
Original   1 st realloc.  2nd realloc. Expenditures
Categories                                       March 1995 August 1996  as of May
1997
1. Civil work                          1,600,000   2,600,000   2,300,000    2,384,957
2. Equipment                           2,300,000   2,300,000   3,600,000    2,759,916
3. Vehicles                             1,000,000   1,000,000   600,000      584,981
4. Consulting services, audit training   645,000    650,000   1,300,000    1,288,556
5. Operating funds                     5,585,000   5,600,000   6,069,000    6,366,037
6. Research reserve fund                 800,000    800,000           0           0
7. Refunding PPF                         600,000    600,000     132,000      130,078
8. Unallocated                          1,470,000    450,000          0           0
9. Unallocated Disbursements                                                 450,259
Total                                 14,000,000  14,000,000  14,000,000   13,967,782






APPENDIX A
Projet Recherche Agricole II
Aide-Memoire de mission
d'achevement de projet



Ap=dIx A
Page 1 of 4
SENEGAL
Projet recherche agricole II
Aide-mimoire
Mission d'achvetnent de projet
6 au 18 Janvier 1997
1.     La mission, conduite par Madame Marie-Helene Collion (specialiste en recherche agricole),
comprenait en outre les personnes suivantes: Messrs. Hannibal Muhtar (Consultant USAID/NRBAR,
gestion des infrastructures et equipements de recherche) ; Pierre Rondot (consultant Banque mondiale,
gestion scientifique) ; Leopold Sarr (Banque mondiale-Dakar, services agricoles). La mission remercie
Son Excellence Monsieur Robert Sagna, Ministre d'Etat, Ministre de l'Agriculture et les cadres de
l'Institut Sen6galais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA) pour leur disponibilit6 et leur esprit de
collaboration qui ont prevalu pendant toute la duree des travaux.
2.     Les conclusions de la mission qui ont ete largement discutees avec les cadres de l'Institut,
refletent une convergence de vue entre les deux parties. Le rapport d'achevement de projet sera
communique ult6rieurement par la Banque mondiale pour avis. En attendant, le present aide m6moire,
communique sous reserve de confirmation par le siege de la Banque mondiale, resume les principales
conclusions de la mission. La mission rappelle que, selon ses engagements avec la Banque mondiale, le
Gouvernement doit proceder a sa propre dvaluation du projet. Le document de cette evaluation devrait
parvenir a la Banque mondiale avant la fin du mois de mars. Des termes de reference pour cette
6valuation sont proposes en annexe.
3.    Les principaux objectifs du projet comprenaient la mise au point ou l'adaptation de technologies,
et le developpement institutionnel avec: (i)  I'amelioration de la gestion scientifique; la gestion
administrative; la gestion financiere et comptable; (ii) le renforcement des liens avec la vulgarisation et
les producteurs; (iii) la construction du siege de l'ISRA.
4.    Mise au point ou adaptation de technoloyies et gestion scientifique. L'Institut a obtenu des
resultats ind6niables en ce qui concerne la mise au point ou l'adaptation de technologies en particulier
dans le domaine de la creation varietale (FLOR 11; varietes Sahel pour le riz irrigue); des pratiques
culturales (mat6riel de traction asine, faucheuse asine, sarciage manuel et semoirs pour sols humides pour
le riz de bas-fonds) et de la gestion des ressources naturelles (haies vive, fourrages aeriens, radoubaling,
outils de grattage superficiels). Cependant, les r6sultats auraient pu etre plus nombreux si les chercheurs
n'avaient pas souffert des insuffisances de la gestion administrative et financiere, surtout au niveau de la
gestion de la tresorerie, les fonds n'arrivant souvent pas a temps ni en quantite suffisante dans les Centres
regionaux.
5.     De plus les chercheurs n'ont pas recu autant d'appui de la direction scientifique qu'ils auraient dG
en recevoir: (i) le suivi/evaluation a fait defaut ; (ii) l'organisation de l'ISRA en directions sous
sectorielles centralisees n'a pas favorise la formation d'equipes pluridisciplinaires et intersectorielles au
niveau des regions. Elle n'a pas permis aux chercheurs de programmer ensemble leurs activit6s et
travailler en synergie a resoudre les problemes, forcement systemiques, des exploitations. Cependant,
depuis 1994, l'orientation de l'Institut vis a vis du developpement s'est am6liore avec: (i) la cr6ation
d'un cadre de concertation, la Cellule Recherche-Developpement, entre les trois acteurs: la recherche
(ISRA  et ITA), la vulgarisation (PNVA) et les organisations de producteurs (CNCR); (ii) la



Appendix A
Page 2 of 4
reorganisation de la recherche en abandonnant les directions sous sectorielles au profit de la cr6ation
d'equipes regionales multidisciplinaires et d'unites centrales d'appui. Cependant cette r6organisation
reste fragile sans etre harmonis6e avec les textes l6gaux (voir paragraphe 8).
6.     La gestion financiere et comptable. Peu de resultats ont et6 acquis dans ce domaine. Apres deux
tentatives de mise en place d'un nouveau systeme de gestion financiere et comptable, l'une decentralisant
le systeme, l'autre le centralisant, I'lnstitut n'a toujours pas de systeme de gestion financiere ad6quat.
Signalons toutefois que l'Institut n'a pas toujours e  bien conseille par le consultant qui avait ete recrute
pour cette mise en place. Des termes de ref6rence pour la mise en place d'un nouveau systeme de gestion
financiere et comptable, decentralise, sont maintenant prets pour le lancement d'un appel d'offres.
7.     L'inventaire physique n'a pas ete mis a jour depuis 1992, la comptabilite matiere n'etant pas
fonctionnelle. Cependant un inventaire des immobilisations est en cours. Les dettes foumisseurs envers
les entreprises publiques accumulees depuis la creation de l'Institut ont finalement ete apurees fin 1996,
grace a une convention d'apurement des dettes croisees avec I'Etat, I'Etat abandonnant un creance de 9
milliards de FCFA. II reste les dettes dues aux prive, soit environ 1,5 milliards de FCFA. La gestion du
compte fournisseur est toujours problematique, apres quatre annees de circularisation. L'ISRA a fait
d'importants efforts au cours de l'annee 1996 en apurant environ la moitie de ces dettes, et en s'attelant A
I'analyse de ce compte. L'ISRA s'est engage A terminer les travaux courant 1997, au titre de la
preparation du prochain projet.
8.     En matiere de gestion de la tresorerie, le passage oblige par la Direction de la Dette et des
Investissements a constitue un handicap serieux, allongeant ainsi le temps du circuit de constitution des
mrmoires et de reallocation du compte special, circuit deja fort long du fait des lenteurs au niveau de
l'ISRA et de 1'ex6cution decentralisee de la recherche. La gestion de la tresorerie s'est amelioree, une
premiere fois A partir de juin 1994, lorsque l'ISRA a obtenu de g6rer directement le compte special, puis
A partir de mi 1995, avec les mesures severes de redressement prises par la nouvelle direction gen6rale A
l'epoque. Du fait des problemes de gestion de la tresorerie auxquelles se sont ajoutees les lenteurs des
procedures de passation de marche aussi bien au niveau de l'ISRA que dans les circuits administratifs
exterieurs, le projet a et pratiquement execute durant les trois dernieres annees (moins de 10% des
dc&aissements ont eu lieu pendant les trois premieres ann6es du projet).
9.     Le contexte institutionnel. Bien que durant l'identification et l'evaluation du projet, la Banque
mondiale ait insist6 sur les reformes institutionnelles necessaires a l'Institut, notamment en ce qui
conceme le reglement d'etablissement, celles-ci n'ont pas ete traduites en objectifs dans l'Accord de
Credit. Cependant les problemes n'ayant pas trouve de solutions au moment de l'instruction du projet,
ceux-ci' ont perdure, et ont affecte les performances de l'Institut. En particulier, les resultats de
l'evaluation des chercheurs n'ont jamais e  appliques du fait que l'Institut ne pouvait pas mettre en
oeuvre son reglement d'6tablissement d'EPIC. Pour les memes raisons, l'Institut n'a pas pu mettre en
place de systeme d'evaluation base sur les performances. II faut remarquer que l'ajustement des niveaux
de remuneration auquel le personnel avait droit aurait n6cessite une reduction de 1'effectif et du reseau
d'infrastructures de l'Institut pour pouvoir 8tre budg6tise a partir de la contribution du gouvernement. La
Direction generale n'a pas fait ce choix.
10.    Depuis 1994, la Direction g6nerale de l'ISRA s'est attele au probleme du statut de l'Institut en
travaillant A introduire dans le paysage juridique senegalais, la categorie des Etablissements Publics a
caractere Scientifique et Technique (EPST), mieux adaptee a la situation des Instituts de recherche que
celle d'EPIC (Etablissement Public A caractere industriel et commercial). Malheureusement, depuis



Apnnend  A
Page 3 of 4
1994, cette nouvelle loi n'a toujours pas ete examin6e en Conseil des Ministres, laissant l'ISRA dans un
contexte qui lui rend difficile l'amilioration de sa gestion administrative et financiere.
11.    Les infrastructures. Les seules infrastructures prevues etaient la construction du siege de l'ISRA.
Celui-ci a ete construit, mais les caracteristiques techniques du bitiment sont telles que les colits
recurrents sont trop eleves par rapport a ce que peut supporter l'ISRA sur le budget de I'Etat.
12.    Bien que figurant dans le Plan Quinquennal de l'Institut qui avait servi de base i l'evaluation du
projet, aucune rehabilitation de centres et stations n'avait ete prevue, du fait que le premier projet avait
consacre une large part du financement aux constructions. Cependant. il s'est vite avere, au cours des
diverses missions de supervision, que la degradation des terrains d'experimentation et des infrastructures
devenait un frein a l'execution correcte des travaux de recherches. Ainsi, des travaux de rehabilitation
ont ete decides sur cr6dit IDA dans les principaux centres. Les r6habilitations prevues pour les bitiments
ont ete reafisees. Mais en ce qui concerne l'amenagement des terrains d'experimentation, l'ISRA en est a
la preparation des dossiers d'appel d'offres, le manque de personnel qualifie 6tant certainement une des
causes des delais dans la preparation des dossiers techniques.
13.    D'une facon generale, la gestion des stations et laboratoires a fait defaut, en partie du fait que les
deux deflations successives ont atteint surtout le personnel technique, laissant un Institut desequilibr6
entre chercheurs et personnel d'appui. Depuis 1994, l'Institut a fait un effort pour redresser la situation
dans ce domaine en nommant des directeurs adjoints aux directeurs de centre pour la gestion des
infrastructures et des equipements. Ce personnel a requ des formations court terme et un appui technique
sur le tas. It reste encore beaucoup a faire au niveau de la mise au point de procedures pour la gestion des
stations et des laboratoires et d'un soutien a ce personnel pour l'application de ces procedures.
14.    La production de semences et de vaccins. L'Accord de Credit prevoyait une privatisation de ces
unites en janvier 1992, laquelle privatisation n'a jamais eu lieu. La revue a mi-parcours avait deja conclu
que ces objectifs etaient irrealistes: les 6quipements sont obsoletes ; ces unites ne sont pas rentables au
vu des cofits de production et des prix de vente pratiqu6s. La revue a mi-parcours avait cependant
recommande la s6paration au plan comptable et financier des activit6s de production des activit6s de
recherche, ce qui a ete realise en fm 1995.
15.    La perennite de l'Institut. Les calculs de cofits recurrents des infrastructures existantes montrent
que l'Institut n'est pas viable avec le niveau de la contribution financiere actuelle de l'Etat.
16.    plan d'action. Les constats ci-dessus ne sont pas nouveaux: la revue a mi-parcours de janvier
1995 avait d6ja soulev6 ces questions. Suite a cette revue, l'ISRA avait propose un plan d'action et de
redressement qui est en cours depuis mi-1995. Ce plan d'action et de redressement devta etre poursuivi
avec succes pour que la Banque mondiale puisse continuer son soutien a l'Institut. II s'agit des actions
suivantes:
Le contexte legal et institutionnel. Loi sur les EPST, son decret d'application portant organisation de
l'Institut; son reglement d'etablissement.
Gestionfinanciere et comptable: (i) l'inventaire physique des biens de l'Institut et la mise en place d'une
comptabilite matiere; (ii) l'identification et l'evaluation de la dette fournisseur et son apurement; (iii) le
paiement des arrier6s de cotisations du personnel et des imp8ts; (iv) l'apurement du compte "prets et
avances" au personnel; (v) le recouvrement des crtances au titre de la vente de vaccins; (vi) le
recrutement d'une firme pour la mise en place d'un systeme de gestion financiere et comptable.



Appndix A
Page 4 of 4
Perennite de l'Institut. Plan de consolidation du r6seau d'infrastructures. Evaluation externe pour
6clairer la prise de d6cision concernant le Louis Sauger.
Gestion scientifique. Procedures de programmation, suivi, evaluation.
Gestion du personnel. Manuel de procedures pour le recrutement, evaluation, promotion, etc.. du
personnel.
Gestion des Stations et laboratoires. Manuel de proc6dures.
Unites de production de semences et de vaccins. Evaluation externe pour definir une strat6gie.
Andrea Vasquez
O:\IAFrA3\SENEGAL\AGRESII\APENDIXA.DOC
May 23, 1997 17:16






Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
Appendix B
Rapport d'execution du Projet
Recherche Agricole II
M
Mars 1997



LISTE DES ABREVIATIONS
ANCAR                 Agence Nationale de Credit Agricole et Rural
BAME                   Bureau d'Analyses Macro-Economiques
CADEF                  Comite d'Action pour le Developpement du Fogny
CDH                   Centre pour le Developpement de l'Horticulture
CD-ROM                Compact Disk-Read Only Memory
CFA                   Communaute Financibre Africaine
CNCR                   Comite National de Concertation des Ruraux
CST                   Comite Scientifique et Technique
DDI                   Direction de la Dette et des Investissements
DPDA                   Declaration de Politique de Developpement Agricole
EPST                  Etablissement Public a caractere Scientifique et Technique
ICRISAT               Institut International de Recherches sur les Zones Tropicales Semi-Arides
IDA                   International Development Association
ISRA                   Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
ITA                   Institut de Technologie Alimentaire
LNERV                 Laboratoire National d'Elevage et de Recherches Vet6rinaires
NPA                   Nouvelle Politique Agricole
PQ                     Plan Quinquennal
NRBAR                  Projet de Recherche Agricole Basee sur la Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
PARURE                 Partenariat Rural et Environnemental
PNVA                   Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole
PRA                    Projet Recherche Agricole
PRAI                   Premier Projet de Recherche Agricole
PRAII                 Deuxieme Projet de Recherche Agricole
PROGES                 Projet de Gestion des Eaux du Sud
PSAOP                 Programme Services Agricoles et d'appui aux Organisations de Producteurs
R/D                   Recherche/Developpement
REMEDE                Reseau des Mediateurs du Developpement agricole
RESADOC               Reseau Sahelien de Documentation
RESAGRIS               Reseau Agricole Senegalais
SAGNO                  Systeme d'Amelioration Genetique A Noyau Ouvert
SIG                    Systeme d'Informations Geographiques
UNIVAL                 Unite d'Information et de Valorisation
USAID                 Agence des Etats-Unis pour le Developpement International



Appendix B
Page 1 of 16
RAPPORT D'EXECUTION DU PROJET RECHERCHE AGRICOLE II
(PRATT, 1991-1996)
Introduction
En 1987, dans le cadre de sa Nouvelle Politique Agricole (NPA), le gouvernement a confie A l'Institut
Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA) I'elaboration d'un Plan Quinquennal (PQ) de recherche
(1989-1993). L'IDA et d'autres donateurs dont I'Etat ont accept6 d'apporter leur contribution au
financement de ce plan dans le cadre d'un programme a long terme de soutien A l'ISRA (initie avec le
PRAI). Le Plan Quinquennal a servi de cadre technique au deuxieme projet de recherche agricole
(PRAII) qui a couvert la periode allant de 1991 a 1996.
Dans le pr6sent rapport, apres avoir rappele les objectifs initiaux du PRAII, nous en apprecierons les
realisations par rapport aux objectifs fixes en matiere de recherche, de gestions scientifique,
administrative, financiere et comptable, de ressources humaines, de valorisation des resultats et
d'infrastructures. Nous en analyserons ensuite les forces et les faiblesses. Nous tenterons aussi d'analyser
les difficultes rencontrees en cours d'execution du projet, d'evaluer les performances de la Banque
Mondiale, du gouvemement senegalais et de l'ISRA et, enfin de tirer les lecons du PRAII.
a) Objectifs du projet
Les objectifs initiaux du deuxieme projet ont ete identifies sur la base du programme de
recherche contenu dans le Plan Quinquennal. Ces objectifs ont e definis sur la base des lecons tirees du
premier projet et s'inscrivent dans sa continuite en s'attachant A rentabiliser ce dernier (recherches
adaptatives), a en consolider les acquis (definition de recherches prioritaires, syst6miques et
multidisciplinaires) et aussi A en corriger les faiblesses (recherche participative, gestion des ressources
naturelles, gestion et administration de l'ISRA, gen6ration de recettes propres). Enfin, ils ont ete
examines et affines au cours du processus d'evaluation ex-ante du PRAII par la Banque Mondiale.
En matiere de developpement technologique, une approche regionalisde impliquant les partenaires aussi
bien dans I'adaptation des technologies mises au point au cours du PRAI et d'autres projets que dans
l'identification de nouvelles thematiques de recherche, a etd utilisee pour la definition des objectifs
initiaux (Encadr6 1).



Appendix 
Page 2 of 16
Encadr6 1. Objectifs initiaux du PRATT (d'aprbs rapport d'6valuation PRAII)
Le projet sera focalise sur:
1. la recherche adaptative comportant l'essai, dans le cadre des exploitations agricoles,
de technologies mises au point au cours du premier projet;
2. Ia recherche appliquee concentree sur les principaux problemes techniques dans les
zones prioritaires:
*  Fleuve: la gestion de l'eau et des sols et I'agroforesterie.
*  Basse et Moyenne Casamance: la gestion de leau et des sols et les systemes de
production A base de riz.
*  Senegal Oriental/Haute Casamance: le coton, la diversification des cultures,
I'agroforesterie et les systemes de production.
* Sine Saloum: le sorgho, le mars, I'elevage, I'agroforesterie, le stockage des
cereales, I'aflotoxine, la gestion de la fertilite, les systemes de production.
* Zone Sylvopastorale: la Gestion des Ressources naturelles.
3. la recherche sur les engrais: essais de doses et techniques de fertilisation en milieu
paysan;
4. I'etablissement d'un progrAmme de recherche appliqude portant sur la gestion des
ressources naturelles: restauration et conservation de la fertilite des sols, contrBle de
I'erosion, stabilisation de la productivite;
5. Ie renforcement des liens entre recherche, vulgarisation, organismes de
developpernent et communaute agricole;
6. le renforcement de la gestion administrative et financiere de l'ISRA;
7. Ia fourniture d'un soutien financier au service d'appui A la recherche de l'ISRA,
ainsi que pour l'6tablissement d'une societe de production commerciale pour gerer des
activites generatrices de ressources;
8. I'etablissement d'un Fonds de reserve pour la recherche non imput6 pour financer
des travaux de recherche urgents, identifids comme devant etre finances sans delai lors
des evaluations annuelles des activites de recherche. Le projet prevoit des fonds pour
des travaux de genie civil, notamment la construction du siege de l'ISRA A Dakar, des
vehicules, du materiel, une formation locale, une assistance technique A la gestion
administrative et financiere de l'ISRA (deux & court terme) et des coAts d'exploitation
additionnels.
En 1992, les premieres missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale ont constate que l'etat des
infrastructures au niveau des diff6rents centres de recherche ne permettait pas de mener des programmes
de recherche susceptibles de donner des resultats transferables. C'est ainsi que des objectifs
compl6mentaires de rehabilitation des stations de recherche et de gestion et equipement des centres
(Annexe 1) ont ete assignes au projet.
D'autres missions de supervision et la revue a mi-parcours ont pris en compte des changements de
contexte. Ces changements portent sur la liberalisation, la plus grande responsabilisation des producteurs



AMDmdlSB
Page 3 of 16
et des acteurs economiques, la d6valuation du Franc CFA, et l'claboration de la D6claration de Politique
de Developpement Agricole (DPDA) en Juin 1994.
Dans le domaine de la recherche agricole, les changements au niveau des orientations gouvernementales
(Encadre 2) ont conduit a un recentrage de certains objectifs du PRAII (Encadr6 3) et A la formulation de
recommandations (Annexe 1) repondant aux pr6occupations du moment.
Encadr6 2. Les objectifs gouvernementaux auipfs au secteur de la rocherche dans It cadre
de la DPDA (d'aprbs DPDA, Juin 1994)
Dans le cadre de la DPDA, I'Etat vise A:
 developper les activites de recherche publiques et privees et de vulgarisation en liaison avec
les partenaires priv6s;
* renforcmr le financement de la recherche.
Pour generer des technologies adapt6es pour le developpoment des productions agricoles,
la recherche devra:
* rdpondre a I'attente des utilisateurs des rdsultats par une concertation plus poussde;
* mieux valoriser ses resultats;
* ddvelopper la cooperation sous-rdgionale en matiere de recherche t de vulgarisation.
A cet effet, le gouvernement s'est engage A:
* adopter un plan strategique de la recherche agricole pour (1) faire participer les utilisateurs des
resultats de la recherche a la definition et a la r6alisation des activites de recherche en milieu
reel; (2) renforcer les liens entre la recherche, la vulgarisation, los ecoles de formation
professionnelle et les bdnoficiaires pour cr6er un veritable partenariat; (3) defmir
conjointoment avec les partenaires des programmes de rechefche axes sur les contraintos
majeures de developpement agricole; (4) ameliorar los mdcanismes de coordination entre
Organisations de Producteurs, Recherche et Vulgarisation dans l'identification des contraintes,
le choix des priorites et la programmation des activitds.
* doter l'ISRA d'un nouveau statut (EPST) penmettant une moilleuro gestion du personnel de
recherche.
* renforcer de fagon durable le concours fnancier de I'Etat



Page 4 of 16
Encadre 3. Nouveaux objectifs identifiEs au cours des missions de supervision
et de In revue A mi-parcours au cours du PRAH
1. Modification des processus de programmation
2. Reforme du cadre institutionnel
3. Rehabilitation des stations de recherche
4. Gestion des centres de recherche et 6quipements
5. Partenariat pour I'assistance technique et la formation de courte duree en
biomdtrie
6. Publications et documentation
7. Plan strategique
8. Etablissement d'un comite des bailleurs de fonds de la recherche agricole
Notons qu'en 1992, le programme de recherche appliquee sur la gestion des ressources naturelles a ete
largement pris en charge par l'USAID (projet NRBAR) et de nouveaux objectifs sont venus s'y ajouter:
recherche collaborative, evaluation des technologies, appui a la gestion et a la formation scientifique et
administrative etc...
b) Realisation des objectifs
b-1 Mise au point de technologies et d* velment de connaissances
La prdsente evaluation des resultats de la recherche confronte les acquis en terme de mise au
point de technologies et de developpement de connaissances aux objectifs initiaux du PRAII. Elle
conceme les zones agro-ecologiques suivantes: Fleuve, Basse et Moyenne Casamance, Sen6gal Oriental
et Haute Casamance, Sine Saloum (Sud Bassin Arachidier) et la Zone Sylvo-Pastorale. Elle fait l'objet
d'un tableau recapitulatif en annexe 2.
1. Fleuve
1.1. Gestion des sols. Une grande variabilit6 des propriets physico-chimiques des sols
des perimetres du Delta a ete mise en evidence. Les resultats ont confirme le caractere acide des
sols du Delta s'associant fr6quemment a une salinit6 de type chlroruro-sodique avec une grande
variabilite spatiale au sein meme d'une parcelle. Des combinaisons optimales d'azote, de
phosphore et/ou de potassium ont ete determinees en fonction du type de culture, du type de sol
et de la tresorerie du paysan.
1.2. Gestion de 1'eau. Des doses d'irrigation sur sol "fonde" ont ete d6termin6es pour les
cultures de riz, de tomate et d'oignon en contre saison. Des frequences d'irrigation sur sols
"Dieri" ont ete definies pour les cultures de tomate, d'arachide et sur sol "fond6" pour les cultures
d'hivernage (riz, sorgho, mil et nieb6). Des besoins en eau d'irrigation par aspersion sur sol
"Dieri" ont ete d6ternin6es pour les cer6ales (riz, 600 mm; mais, 430 mm; mil, 390 mm) et les
cultures maraicheres (tomate, 540 mm ; oignon, 520 mm; pomme de terre ; 460 mm).



AppendixB
Page 5 of 16
2. Basse et Moyenne Casamance
Les technologies mises au point au cours du PRAI dans le domaine de la gestion de l'eau
et des sols ont fait l'objet de recherches adaptatives dans le cadre de collaborations entre l'ISRA
et le CADEF d'une part et le PROGES et l'ISRA d'autre part.
2.1. Gestion de l'eau. Des techniques de gestion des barrages et digues anti-sel ont ete
elaborees. Des etudes de caracterisation hydrologique de la vallee de Bougoutoub ont ete men6es
dans une perspective de definition de regles de gestion du barrage reservoir pour une
intensification de la riziculture.
2.2. Gestion des sl. Des formules de fertilisation min6rale etlou organique pour les
differents types de riziculture (riziere de plaine acide, 100-40-50; riziere de zone de nappe, 60-
40-50; riziere de bas fond, 61-36-54 associe a un recyclage des pailles en riziere de bas-fond;
riziere de mangrove, 60P) ont et etablies et ont fait l'objet de tests impliquant plusieurs varietes
en parcelles paysannes. De plus des techniques d'amendement des rizieres salees avec de la
chaux agricole et des phosphates tricalciques ont montre un effet positif de la chaux a raison de 2
t/ha.
2.3. Machinisme agricole. Differents materiels ont ete mis au point: le semoir DJ Eco, la
sarcleuse manuelle et le semoir a 4 rangs A traction bovine. Un rolliculteur a fait l'objet de
travaux d'adaptation pour la pr6paration du lit de semis du riz. Un decortiqueur de n6re (Parkia
biglobosa) a et mis au point.
Un suivi des performances de divers itineraires techniques mecanises sur riz de nappe a
te realis6 en parcelles paysannes (labour a plat en traction animale, motorisation petite et
moyenne, sarclage m6canique avec Rotary Hoe et Cono Weeder, etc...) dans une perspective de
reduction des temps de travaux et d'accroissement de la productivite.
3. Senegal Oriental/Haute Casamance
Les objectifs d'etude des systemes de production n'ont ete que partiellement realises. En
effet, seule la composante elevage a fait l'objet de recherches.
3.1. Coton. Concemant la gestion de la fertilite des sols, un schema de rotation
quadriennale "cereales-arachide-coton-cereales" a ete mis au point. Une methode de gestion A la
carte de la fertilisation minerale en fonction des conditions agro-ecologiques ainsi que des
objectifs du producteur et des techniques adoptees a et proposee A la vulgarisation (semis
precoces avant le 30 juin, 350 Kg/ha complexe NPK; semis intermediaires entre les 10 et 15
juillet, 250 Kg/ha; semis tardifs apres le 20 juillet et dans les zones a pluviometrie faible, 150
Kg/ha). Les recherches sur la fertilite des sols ont permis d'etablir que la combinaison de 4
tonnes de fumier + 100 Kg d'engrais complexe NPK permet d'atteindre le meme niveau de
productivite qu'avec 200 Kg d'engrais NPK.
Suite A la mise au point de nouvelles formules d'engrais, des propositions de substitution
de formules NPK ont 6t6 faites en 1992 (14-23-14 remplace 6-14-35) et en 1993 (20-16-20
remplace 14-23-14).
Des traitements insecticides plus economiques (tres bas volume d'un melange de un litre
de produit commercial avec neuf litres d'eau/ha) ont ete proposes en lieu et place des traitements



Apend*x R
Page 6 of 16
Ultra-bas volume (3 litres de produit commercial a l'hectare).
Dans le domaine de la selection varitale, il faut noter la mise au point et la diffusion de
Stam F en 1992 et Stam 42 en 1993. Cette substitution s'est traduite par une am6lioration de la
production (66 Kg/ha) et de la qualite de la fibre.
Des propositions de diffusion de varietes rustiques de coton (IRMA 772, ISRA G440 et
ISRA J700) presentant de bons rendements en graines et en fibre ont e  faites pour les zones a
faible pluviosite (Sine Saloum et Nord Tambacounda).
3.2. Elevage. En plus de l'approfondissement des connaissances sur les systemes
d'elevage en Haute Casamance, des modeles d'etables laitiers villageois ont ete experimentes
avec les producteurs et les societ6s d'encadrement publiques et priv6es. A la place du schema
classique d'amelioration genetique en station, un systeme de selection dit i "noyau ouvert"
(SAGNO) a e  mis en place impliquant de nombreux eleveurs.
4. Sine Saloum (Sud Bassin Arachidier)
Les recherches sur l'aflotoxine conduites en collaboration avec l'ICRISAT/Inde et
l'ICRISAT/Centre Sahelien entre 1989 et 1992 et portant sur le criblage de varietes d'arachide
resistantes i l'aflotoxine.
L'epandage d'engrais 8-18-27 en bandes localisees enfouies permet d'ameliorer
l'efficacite de cet engrais et de realiser une economie de 50% sur la dose de 200 Kg/ha
habituellement recommandee pour l'6pandage a la vol&e (pratique paysanne).
Les activites de recherche sur le sorgho ont porte en partie sur la selection de lign6es de
moyen cycle (100-110 jours) destinees i la zone Centre Sud et Sud Est Senegal. Elles ont permis
d'identifier l'hybride HB63 qui a presente un gain de rendement de 74% par rapport au temoin
F2-20.
En agronomie, les travaux ont porte sur des tests de varietes ameliorees de sorgho en
parcelles paysannes suivant divers itineraires techniques d'intensification. Ils ont permis de noter
une grande variabilite de reponse du sorgho a l'intensification mettant ainsi en exergue la
necessite d'une etude economique pour etablir la rentabilit6 de cette pratique sur la culture du
sorgho.
Les acquis dans le domaine de la Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et des Systemes de
Production sont: la mise au point d'un schema d'am6nagemnent int6gr6 des bassins versants, des
techniques de travail du sol "radou baling" et des modeles de gestion de l'eau et de la fertilitd a
diff6rentes echelles.
En agroforesterie, les travaux de reboisement des sols sales inities bien avant le Plan
quinquennal et le PRA II ont et poursuivis. Des tests d'adaptation d'especes pour des haies vives
et la lutte anti-erosive ont ete realises. En matiere de stockage, l'valuation de certaines plantes i
effet insecticide telle que Boscia senegatensis a permis d'enregistrer des resultats tres interessants
qui permettent de proposer aux producteurs des methodes altematives aux insecticides de
synthese pour le controle des insectes ravageurs des denrees stockees en milieu rural.



Page 7 of 16
5. Zone Sylvopastorale
Des resultats interessants ont e  obtenus:
5.1. Eleage. (i) mise au point de techniques de recolte et de conservation de fourrage;
(ii) mise au point d'une charrette A traction asine a trois brancards; (iii) etablissement d'une carte
des carences minerales.
5.2. Foresterie. (i) selection d'especes et mise au point de modes de regeneration du
gommier (Acacia senegal) ; (ii) mise au point de techniques d'optimisation de saign6e ; (iii) mise
en place de banques fourrageres; (iv) etablissement des preferences edaphiques de deux
phenotypes d'Acacia senegal.
6. Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
Le programme de recherche sur la gestion des ressources naturelles a couvert les zones
d'intervention de l'ISRA situees au Sud de l'isoyete 400 mm. Les resultats obtenus dans le cadre
de ce programme sont consignes dans les rapports techniques du NRBAR.
Globalement, le projet a alloue de nombreuses subventions de recherche aux chercheurs
conduisant des travaux sur la gestion des ressources naturelles et aux projets de recherche
collaborative impliquant l'ISRA et les ONG, les organisations paysannes ou les agents de
developpement. C'est ainsi que les essais en milieu reel geres par les producteurs pour evaluer
les technologies ont pris une part importante dans les activites de ce programme.
Le projet a egalement pris en charge un important volet de formation scientifique comme on le
verra plus loin.
7. Fertilisation
Concernant le programme de fertilisation, il a ete inclus dans les autres programmes de
recherches comme plusieurs r6sultats presentes ci-dessus l'ont montre. Une approche
regionalisee a ete adoptee et des recherches appliquees et adaptatives ont souvent e  menees en
milieu reel.
8. Autres r6alisations
En dehors des r6sultats qui viennent d'etre presentes, d'autres resultats ont et obtenus
pendant la periode d'execution du PRAII en particulier dans le domaine horticole pour la zone
des Niayes, en matiere de recherches halieutiques pour la zone Maritime et dans le domaine des
productions vegetales pour la zone Centre Nord Bassin Arachidier. Ces resultats sont consignes
dans le tableau recapitulatif des technologies (Annexe 2).
b-2 Reformes institutionnelles
L'6tat d'execution des objectifs fixes en matiere de reformes institutionnelles, donne sous la forme d'un
tableau en annexe 1, est developpe ci-apres.



Appendiy B
Page 8 of 16
Reforme du cadre institutionnel. Un d6cret portant organisation de l'ISRA a 6t6 pris et mis en
ceuvre en 1991. II annoncait cinq directions r6gionales de recherche portant respectivement sur les
cultures et systemes irriguees, les cultures et systemes pluviaux, les productions forestieres, les
productions et sant6 animales et les productions halieutiques. En 1995, l'ISRA a poursuivi la r6flexion
sur son organisation pour une plus grande d6centralisation en unites de recherche operationnelles et
autonomes.
Le Comite Scientifique et Technique a vu sa composition chang6e dans le sens d'un renforcement accru
de sa capacite d'assistance a l'ISRA. Concernant, I'ouverture du Conseil d'Administration aux
utilisateurs prives, elle depend de l'adoption de la loi sur les EPST.
Un comite des bailleurs a e   institutionnalis6 par arrete ministeriel et mis en place mais celui-ci ne s'est
pas reuni depuis 1995.
Gestion scientifique. Au cours de 1'ex6cution du PRAII, la gestion scientifique de l'ISRA a
connu une evolution (Annexe 1). II s'agit:
* du renforcement des capacites de gestion mais aussi de coordination';
*  de l'amelioration des outils de la programmation2;
* de la creation de la cellule methodologique de recherche en milieu r6el;
*  de l'application du programme INFORM  qui, en identifiant les activit6s de recherche,
a permis d'6viter des redondances et a favorise la compl6mentarite;
*  de l'6valuation des programmes et des directions de recherche par des personnalit6s
scientifiques ext6rieures a l'ISRA.
*  de la r6duction du nombre de programmes de soixante six (66) a vingt deux (22) en
vue d'avoir des masses critiques de chercheurs.
Concernant le systeme de suivi/6valuation, il est applique dans plusieurs unit6s comme Centre Nord
Bassin Arachidier, Sud Bassin Arachidier, Sdn6gal Oriental Haute Casamance, Basse et Moyenne
Casamance. Cela grace a l'appui d'un consultant, a l'organisation de seminaires de sensibilisation (sur
financement NRBAR) et a la formation de trois (3) agents.
En matiere de gestion du personnel scientifique, le plan de formation 6labor6 dans le cadre du PRAII est
applique avec 1'envoi d'etudiants ou d'agents pour preparer un Master ou un phD  (Annexe 3) sur
' (i) la consolidation de cinq (5) directions de recherche ayant en charge les grands domaines que sont les cultures irrigu6es et pluviales, les
productions animales, forestieres et halieutiques; (ii) la restauration du Bureau d'Analyse Macro-Economique (BAME); (iii) la nomination de
trois (3) conseillers techniques au Directeur Scientifique qui ont 6te par la suite remplaces par deux (2) charg6s de mission pour la Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles et pour la Recherche/Developpement.
2 (i) la preparahion de nouvelles fiches techniques qui se distinguent des precedentes par des 6l6ments nouveaux portant sur le temps que
chaque chercheur alloue aux acions de recherche, les r6sultats attendus, I'impact potentiel et les actions bsferables ; (ii) la restructuration des
comites de programme avec leur ouverture aux chercheurs des autres directions et aux utilisateurs de la recherche ameliorant ainsi le ratio
chercheursutilisateurs dans le sens d'une presence accrue de ces derniers pour une meilleure perception de leurs besoins specifiques; (iii)
I'amelioration du fonctionnement desdits comit6s avec la tenue de seances de huis-clos et de pleni6re; (iv) I'organisation de comit6s
preparatoires.



Page 9 of 16
financement du projet NRBAR. Les proc6dures de recrutement/confirmation ont ete ameliorees avec
surtout l'allongement de la periode d'essai qui est pass&e de 6 A 12 mois.
La programmation regionale de la recherche a ete initiee depuis 1992 avec l'instauration des comites
r6gionaux de programmation. Elle se poursuit.
Renforcement des liens recherche/vulgarisation/organisations de producteurs. Une des
principales le9ons tiree du PRAI etait que les liens entre la recherche et la vulgarisation n'avaient pas W
suffisamment orientes pour satisfaire les besoins des agriculteurs. II appartenait au PRAII d'apporter des
solutions a ces problemes. Les objectifs initiaux fixes et les recommandations en cours d'execution
allaient dans ce sens. Plusieurs d'entre eux ont et realises et les recommandations suivies de facon
satisfaisante. De plus, compte tenu de l'importance de ce volet, un poste de charge de mission aupres du
Directeur Scientifique a ete cree en 1995 pour le suivi. Par ailleurs, une cellule R/D regionalis6e
int6grant les responsables de l'ISRA, de l'ITA, du CNCR et du PNVA/ANCAR a e  creee et mene des
actions concertees. Malgre ces avancees significatives, il faut maintenir les efforts afin que les priorites
de recherche agricole soient l'objet d'une planification plus concertee entre l'ISRA, les vulgarisateurs et
les producteurs. La constitution de la cellule de liaison R/D devrait aider A mener des actions plus
decisives dans le cadre du PSAOP.
Services d'appui a la recherche. L'objectif vise etait de doter les chercheurs et les cadres
techniques d'outils scientifiques en adequation avec leurs activites de recherches et de production. Ainsi
le laboratoire de physiologie/nutrition du LNERV a et6 completement refectionne et equipe de materiel
et d'outils de laboratoire. Les etudes pour la rehabilitation des chambres froides et des parcelles de
multiplication de l'unite de production de semences de base ont ete finalisees. II faut par ailleurs
signaler l'acquisition de materiel agricole. Concernant l'unite de production de vaccins, les outils de
production doivent etre renouveles.
Privatisation des activites commerciales de l'ISRA. Dans le domaine de la privatisation
commerciale, l'ISRA avait mis en place une cellule de reflexion. Par suite, il a e  opere une separation
des activites de production de celles de recherche.
Gestion des infrastructures et des equipements. Afin de pouvoir assurer aux activit6s de
recherche des resultats plus fiables, l'ISRA a initie un certain nombre d'action visant A asseoir une bonne
gestion des infrastructures et des equipements par:
* la mise en place d'une equipe operationnelle de gestionnaires des centres et stations et
leur formation (Annexe 1);
* I'elaboration d'un manuel de procedures de gestion des infrastructures et des
equipements, pas encore totalement acheve;
* Ia mise en place d'un plan de developpement et de rehabilitation des centres (Annexe
4) ;
* la nomination d'un comptable matiere dans chaque centre regional.
En marge de la gestion des equipements, il est important de signaler que trois (3) chercheurs ont et
identifi6s et formes pour garantir un appui scientifique et faciliter l'utilisation des SIG dont l'ISRA a
I' intention de se doter.



Appendix B
Page 10 of 16
Enfin, des reflexions sont engagees sur le probleme des frais de maintien et de fonctionnement des
infrastructures et 6quipements avec notamment l'elaboration d'un plan de rehabilitation et de
redimensionnement.
Gestion administrative, financiere et comptable de l'ISRA. La consolidation des ameliorations
apport6es au cours du PRAI aux proc6dures administratives et A la gestion financiere et comptable etait
un des objectifs du deuxieme projet. Pour ce faire, l'ISRA a recu l'appui technique de deux cabinets
d'experts. Concernant le contr6le interne et de gestion, ceux-ci ont fait l'objet d'une amelioration du fait
de la nomination distincte d'un contr6leur de gestion et d'un auditeur interne. Les outils pour les
renforcer sont en train d'etre 6labores. Le contr6le budgetaire se fait de maniere acceptable au niveau des
centres regionaux et de la Direction Generale. En matiere de formation, des seminaires d'information et
de sensibilisation ont ete organises a Dakar et dans les centres regionaux.
Dans les faits, la s6paration des fonctions de l'Agent Comptable Particulier, du Secretaire General et du
Controleur de Gestion a ete realisee. Des initiatives ont ete prises egalement pour impliquer le personnel,
notamment celui des centres, dans l'elaboration d'un nouveau systeme de gestion financiere et
comptable. Toutefois, ces initiatives n'ont pas jusqu'A present abouti a la mise en place d'un systeme de
gestions comptable, financiere et administrative fiable.
Enfin, le transfert du compte special de la Direction de la Dette et des Investissements (DDI) A l'ISRA a
facilit6 les decaissements en simplifiant les procedures a partir de mi Juin 1994.
En conclusion, en matiere de gestion administrative, financiere et comptable, des ameliorations ont et
constatees pendant la periode d'execution du PRAII comparee a celle du PRAI.
Gestion des ressources humaines. Apres l'introduction dans le circuit officiel du projet de loi sur
les EPST, un autre reglement d'etablissement appel6 Statut R6glementaire particulier du personnel de
l'ISRA est en chantier.
Concemant le systeme d'evaluation, il faut noter que la reunion du Comite Scientifique et Technique
(CST) du 24 au 29 Mai 1993 a permis A l'ISRA de proceder, pour la premiere fois, a l'6valuation initiale
de son personnel chercheur sur la base d'un dossier individuel. L'examen de 89 dossiers a donne des
resultats acceptes par la majoritd des chercheurs. Depuis la fin de I'annde 1995, des negociations avec le
personnel chercheur sont en cours et pourraient aboutir a la mise en place des procedures d'evaluation,
procedures qui seraient revues A la lumiere des criteres et modeles sp6cifiques A la recherche agricole
finalisee.
Valorisation des resultats et documentation. Les cadres de rapprochement, d'echanges et de
valorisation des resultats developpds (AFRISTECH, reseau REMEDE, projet PARURE de partenariat
rural et environnemental, club de la presse scientifique agricole, Journee Nationale de la communication
sur les acquis de la recherche, etc...) ont e  des initiatives importantes en matiere de valorisation. II
convient aussi de noter des efforts substantiels de la cellule de documentation centrale de l'UNIVAL
dans la conception et l'utilisation de produits pour la communication scientifique et la capitalisation des
informations avec un stockage sur plusieurs types de supports adapt6s A differents utilisateurs (fiches
techniques illustrees, plaquettes, films et videocassettes, emission radiophoniques, CD-ROM, etc...). Une
base de donnees bibliographiques (SPHINX) a ete constituee au niveau d'UNIVAL et dans certaines
cellules regionales de documentation a partir des publications de l'Institut. L'ISRA continue a etre partie
prenante et meme coordonnateur d'un certain nombre de reseaux documentaires comme RESAGRIS et



Appendix B
Page 11 of 16
RESADOC. Enfin, la conception d'un systeme int6gr6 de mise en commun des services de
documentation et d'edition agricoles avec d'autres institutions pr6sentes au S6negal est en cours. En
matiere de traitement, de valorisation et de diffusion des r6sultats de la recherche, une chaine editoriale
est mise en place avec des supports ciblant divers utilisateurs du systeme agricole. De plus, une
formation A la rddaction scientifique a etd rdalisde pour les chercheurs lors d'un atelier de formation dans
la perspective d'un projet de developpement de la communication scientifique avec elaboration d'une
charte graphique et 6ditoriale. Les principales publications editees au cours du PRAII sont donndes en
annexe (Annexe 5).
Conclusion. L'exdcution du PRAII s'est soldde, comme l'etat de realisation des objectifs le montre (voir
ci-dessus et annexe 1), par un bilan globalement positif. L'ISRA a reussi cette performance dans un
environnement institutionnel et financier plut6t defavorable ce qui lui donne d'autant plus de mdrites. De
plus, depuis deux (2) ans, l'ISRA a initie des reflexions importantes et pertinentes pour preparer son
avenir. Cela est A souligner et A considerer comme une des reussites du deuxieme projet.
Enfin, il convient de souligner que les reussites du projet ont e  aussi possibles grace A des appuis sous
forme d'assistances techniques humaine et materielle (consultants, bureaux d'6tudes, fournisseurs et
firmes).
Performances des consultants. Les prestations des consultants sont en general de bonne qualit6,
aussi bien dans les domaines scientifiques que pour ce qui concerne les aspects institutionnels et de
gestion (Annexe 6). L'appui technique sous la forme de missions de consultations s'est renforce ces
dernieres annees et s'est solde par un impact globalement positif sur l'execution du projet meme si, dans
le cas sp6cifique des evaluations des programmes, I'6valuation est exclusivement faite par rapport au
projet sans une prise en compte suffisante de l'ensemble de l'Institut. Dans ce meme ordre d'idee, on
constate que les consultants ont tendance A centrer leur appui dans le cadre strict de l'activite couverte
par la convention signee avec l'lnstitut sans s'ouvrir sur d'autres activites implicitement liees a celle
qu'ils expertisent. Par ailleurs, il faut souligner que la presence frequente des consultants a souvent
necessite la mise A disposition et la participation, sous diverses formes, d'agents de l'ISRA qui, par
consequent, ont vu leurs activit6s propres ralenties.
Fournisseurs, firmes. La passation des marches avec les fournisseurs et firmes s'est deroul6e
globalement de fagon satisfaisante pendant toute la duree d'ex6cution du PRAII excepte, comme
developpe plus loin, au moment de la devaluation ou des retards de livraison ont ete frequents.
Bureaux d'etudes. Les cabinets ont pour l'essentiel bien realise les missions d'audit des comptes
qui leur ont ete confi6es.
c) Difficultes de mise en ceuvre du projet
Les deflations intervenues en 1987 et en 1990, lourdement ressenties A l'ISRA, ont fortement affecte le
moral du personnel et par suite la mise en oeuvre du PRAII. La demotivation du personnel a ete renforc6e
par des difficult6s dans l'application du reglement d'etablissement notamment en ce qui concerne les
avantages divers (avancements, primes, indemnites, etc...).



Appnedix B
Page 12 of 16
Par ailleurs, au debut du projet, les difficultes de communication avec la Banque Mondiale faute de
moyens techniques performants (fax, E-mail) ont ralenti les echanges au niveau de certaines prises de
decision, d'autant plus que le contr6le des memoires 6tait assur6 A Washington.
Comme dejA dit, I'evenement contextuel majeur enregistre pendant la periode du PRAII reside dans le
changement de parite du Franc CFA. Au niveau de l'ISRA, la d6valuation de Janvier 1994 a entraine des
difficultes et a eu des consequences directes sur la realisation de certains objectifs en particulier en
matiere d'infrastructures et d'equipements et sur les couits de fonctionnement. Tous les march6s conclus
en 1993 et non executes A la date de la devaluation du Franc CFA ont vu leurs coats reevalues. C'est le
cas notamment pour: (1) la construction du siege de l'ISRA A Dakar Bel-Air; (2) I'acquisition de
materiels informatiques; (3) I'acquisition de vehicules. Ces mesures de reajustement monetaire prises
par les fournisseurs se sont en outre traduites par des retards de livraison oberant ainsi le plan
d'execution de certaines activites fixees par le PRAII. Il en est de meme des cofits de fonctionnement
(eau, electricite, t6lephone, materiels de bureau, etc...). D'autre part, la devaluation n'a pas entrain6 A
l'ISRA, comme dans toutes les structures publiques ou privees d'ailleurs, une revalorisation des salaires
face A un taux d'inflation important mettant ainsi tout le personnel dans une position financiere et
materielle precaire. La diminution du pouvoir d'achat et le souci quotidien qu'elle a engendres n'ont pas
manque d'avoir des consequences indirectes sur le deroulement du PRAII en particulier au cours de
l'annee 1994.
Sur le plan de la tr6sorerie, des difficultes dans la mise a disposition des ressources financieres
necessaires A la bonne execution du projet ont et rencontrees pendant les trois (3) premieres annees du
projet. De fait, les moyens logistiques ont 6te acquis tardivement ce qui n'a pas permis leur pleine
utilisation pendant toute la duree du PRAII. De plus, la mise en place d'une caisse d'avance n'a pas pu
amrliorer les procedures longues liees A la gestion de la tresorerie car son montant n'etait pas suffisant.
L'Institut devait aussi, des le debut du PRAII, renforcer la generation de recettes propres par des activites
de production et de prestation de services. Cette option forte n'a pas pu etre mise en ceuvre et de fait a
entrame des contraintes budgetaires au demarrage du projet.
Sur le plan scientifique, des difficultes liees A la disponibilite de ressources humaines (absence d'equipe
de recherche dans la zone sylvo-pastorale, mouvements internes de personnel, depart en formation) et de
ressources financieres ont quelquefois compromis 1'execution des programmes de recherches et la
r6alisation des objectifs initiaux. De plus, I'application des recherches menees au cours du PRAII a
montre le faible niveau d'adoption de la centaine de technologies generees pendant son execution.
Dans le domaine de la valorisation des resultats et documentation, le reseau REMEDE a eu des
difficultes a s'imposer. Ce cadre de rapprochement et d'6changes demande A 8tre redynamise et suivi. II
en est de m8me pour l'utilisation de bandes dessinees en langues nationales comme support de
vulgarisation scientifique.
d) Durabifite du projet
Les r6alisations obtenues au cours de l'execution du projet seront durables et pourront 8tre maintenues et
soutenues par l'ISRA. Le tableau ci-dessous presentent les conditions qui participent de la durabilite de
ces realisations sur les plans scientifique, institutionnel, administratif, financier, et des infrastructures.



Appendix B
Page 13 of 16
Tableau. Facteurs contribuant A la durabiliti des r6alisations du PRAII
.. ....... ............ ..    . .. .. ., .. ....... ...... .    ..... .... .............. ... ...... ..... .. .....  .....  ............ .. . .    . .    ................ .................. .....
R6qumtc *Iiteuam                                Fmeeten de durabiliWt
Mise au point de technologies                     Transferer rapidement les technologies generees
aux producteurs, valoriser l'information
scientifique et technique et inciter l'Etat a mettre
en place les conditions optimales de transfert
(politique de prix, credits, intrants, bquipements)
Renforcement des liens recherche, vulgarisation,  Impliquer davantage les partenaires au niveau
organismes de developpement et communaute         regional pour l'evaluation ex-ante des technologies
agricole                                          a mettre au point, la planification, le suivi et
l'evaluation de la recherche (processus en cours)
Renforcement de la programmation, suivi et        Inclure des indicateurs de suivi et evaluation et
evaluation de la recherche                        mettre en place les structures chargees de leur
gestion
Renforcement de la gestion administrative et      Poursuivre le processus engage pour une bonne
fmanciere                                         transparence dans la comptabilite et proceder a la
mise en ceuvre d'une politique de formation et de
soutien pour le personnel administratif et comptable
pour perenniser les acquis
Construction du siege de l'ISRA a Dakar           Alleger les charges de fonctionnement et apporter
des solutions alternatives pour leur prise en charge
Rehabilitation des centres regionaux              Executer les plans d'amenagement des parcelles et
mettre en place les procedures de gestion
Formation des chercheurs                          Veiller a I'adequation entre la formation et le profil
du poste propose par l'ISRA, et promouvoir les
stages de recyclage. Meilleures conditions apres la
formation
Pour conclure, la durabilite des realisations dans la majoritd des domaines concernes pourra 6tre accrue
grice A une amdlioration des appuis au niveau politique et administratif. La valorisation des ressources
humaines y contribuerait aussi de maniere significative.
e) Les performances de la Banque Mondiale
Au debut du projet, la Banque Mondiale a souvent fait prevaloir son point de vue et porte des critiques
sans prendre en compte les realites de la legislation senegalaise et le climat social au sein de l'Institut.
Depuis 1993, l'on a enregistre une meilleure participation de la Banque Mondiale qui s'associe
davantage a l'ISRA dans la reflexion pour que le projet materialise ses objectifs. Ainsi, comme nous
l'avons vu dans le paragraphe a), la Banque Mondiale a souvent fait preuve d'une adaptation par rapport
aux changements de contexte intervenus pendant le PRAII en r6ajustant les objectifs initiaux ou en
identifiant d'autres objectifs. De plus, elle s'est largement impliquee dans la gestion scientifique du
projet contrairement au PRAI. Enfin, elle a foumi a l'Institut des aide-memoire dans des delais courts
apres les missions de supervision ou d'evaluation. C'est une performance que l'ISRA a pu globalement
apprecier et qui a contribue positivement A l'execution du deuxieme projet.



Append*x B
Page 14 of 16
Pour plusieurs dossiers importants necessitant un traitement urgent, la Banque Mondiale n'a pas attendu
les missions de supervision pour donner son point de vue. En outre, l'on note que les bchanges entre la
Banque Mondiale et l'ISRA sont devenus plus frequents et plus positifs. Cette nouvelle tendance apparue
depuis 1993 doit se poursuivre.
Enfin, l'accord de prolongement du PRAII (expirant initialement en fin 1995) pour une annee a permis la
mise en place d'un plan d'actions (1995-1996) pour le redressement de l'Institut. Cette performance de la
Banque Mondiale a 6te accueillie et appr6cibe comme etant une marque de confiance renouvelee A
l'ISRA.
f) Les performances du gouvernement et de I'agence d'execution
Les performances du gouvernement. Au cours de l'execution du PRAII, les performances du
gouvernement peuvent s'apprdcier a travers d'abord les efforts financiers consentis et ensuite par
l'adoption et l'application de mesures facilitant la mise en ceuvre du projet. Les efforts financiers de
l'Etat se sont materialises par:
 la prise en charge reguliere des salaires du personnel. Dans ce cadre it a meme opere
un relevement du budget de transfert qui est passe de sept cent quatre vingt cinq
millions de francs CFA (785.000.000 FCFA) a un milliard quatre vingt cinq millions
(1.085.000.000 FCFA) en 1996 et en 1997;
* l'instauration du systeme de dettes croisees qui a permis d'apurer les arrieres de
l'ISRA;
* le versement regulier de la contre partie au projet d'un montant de cinq cents millions
de francs CFA (500.000.000 FCFA). Des lors, l'ISRA a pu faire face A ses charges de
structures;
* le renforcement du personnel scientifique pour une bonne mise en ceuvre des activites
retenues au niveau du PRAII;
* I'annulation de neuf milliards de francs CFA (9.000.000.000 FCFA) de creances au
gouvemement senegalais;
* I'autorisation du President de la Republique A verser une prime de rendement au
personnel.
En ce qui concerne les facilites accordees par I'Etat, il s'agit essentiellement:
* de l'autorisation du transfert des signatures de la DDI a l'ISRA ce qui a abouti a la
mise en ccuvre de procedures simples qui ont permis la mobilisation des montants que
l'Etat a alloues a l'ISRA;
* des dispositions prises pour garantir la prise en charge des agents fonctionnaires par
l'ISRA;
* de l'ouverture sur la recherche regionale et internationale.
Les performances de I 'agence d'execution. Les performances de l'ISRA portent, entre autres, sur
les points suivants:
* l'utilisation judicieuse et rationnelle des ressources affectees aux programmes et au
renforcement de la gestion de l'Institut, comme cela du reste a ete constate par les
cabinets d'audit commis A cet effet. Toutefois, ces cabinets ont eu A emettre des
reserves qui devront etre obligatoirement levees par la mise en cuvre de procedures
internes;



AppenxdixB
Page 15 of 16
* I'amelioration du fonctionnement de la cellule ayant en charge le suivi des fonds IDA,
avec comme effet la mobilisation du credit IDA dans de bonnes conditions;
* l'initiation d'un systeme de gestion fiable dont la mise en ceuvre necessite un appui;
* le developpement des capacitds de recherche;
* Ia regionalisation de la recherche;
* I'accroissement de la recherche/developpement.
g) Evaluation des rlsultats
La revue a mi-parcours du PRAII a fait etat de difficultes importantes sur des aspects scientifiques, de
gestion des ressources humaines, financieres et administratives, et de gestion des infrastructures et
equipements. Cependant 1'examen de la realisation des objectifs initiaux du PRAII et des objectifs fix6s
suite aux recommandations des missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale montre que l'execution
d'un grand nombre d'entre eux a ete realisee comme l'indique le tableau en annexe (Annexe 1).
h) Les investissements futurs
Dans le paragraphe d), nous avons fait etat des facteurs de durabilitd du projet. Nous ne les reprendrons
pas ici en dMtail. Toutefois, rappelons qu'en matiere d'investissements futurs, les plans pour la poursuite
des activites au niveau du pays et de la Banque Mondiale vont dans le sens d'une consolidation des
infrastructures et de la gestion financiere et comptable (mise en place effective d'un systeme de gestion).
Ceci apparait comme un pr6alable A la reussite de tous les autres investissements qui pourraient 8tre faits
en particulier au niveau de la gestion scientifique.
Sur le plan de 1'environnement institutionnel et economique, I'Institut evolue aujourd'hui dans un
contexte qui change de plus en plus vite. La decentralisation/regionalisation et la liberalisation sont
maintenant des realitds effectives au Sen6gal. L'ISRA  doit desormais prendre en compte ces
changements et pouvoir s'y adapter tres rapidement. C'est d'ailleurs ce que l'Institut a clairement fait a
la fin du PRAII dans la definition de ses politiques scientifiques et ses strategies A long et court termes.
Les reflexions autour du Projet d'Entreprise et du Plan Strategique le prouvent avec le positionnement de
l'Institut, sur la base de ses avantages comparatifs, dans un Systeme National de Recherche Agricole et
Agro-alimentaire (SNRAA). L'Etat seul ne pourra pas financer la mise en place du SNRAA, aussi
l'investissement de la Banque Mondiale dans le Programme Services Agricoles et Appui aux
Organisations de Producteurs (PSAOP) en preparation sera-t-il determinant dans la poursuite des
activites de l'Institut.
i) Les lepons a tirer du deuxieme projet
Dans ce qui precede nous avons fait l'inventaire des performances et contre performances dans la
realisation des objectifs de recherche et institutionnels fixes par le PRAII. Une lecture fine de cet
inventaire nous montre que le deuxieme projet peut se scinder en deux periodes. De 1991 A 1993, les
faiblesses et les inadequations en matiere de gestion ont e  des freins sur le plan des activites
scientifiques et sur celui des reformes institutionnelles A engager. De 1994 jusqu'A la fin du projet, les
amdliorations globalement constatees dans la gestion ont permis de renforcer la capacite de
fonctionnement de l'Institut et d'enregistrer au cours de cette seconde periode de nombreuses
performances.
Nous ne reviendrons pas en detail sur les performances qui pour certaines sont indiscutables et qui ont
ddjA fait l'objet de ddveloppement dans le prdsent rapport. Neanmoins, il va sans dire que les autorites



Appendix B
Page 16 of 16
senegalaises et l'Institut en particulier sont conscients que seule la poursuite des efforts accomplis au
cours de la deuxieme pdriode du PRAII pourra permettre de maintenir et d'ameliorer ces performances.
Sur le plan de la gestion scientifique, certains objectifs n'ont pas ete realises comme l'evaluation ex-ante.
D'autres l'ont ete a des degres moindres, c'est le cas du systeme de suivi/evaluation. Pendant 1'execution
du PRAII, la recherche, comme nous I'avons vu, a gen6re un nombre satisfaisant de resultats, malgrd
quelquefois un manque de disponibifite de fonds a temps, et adapte des technologies mises au point au
cours du PRAI. L'ISRA s'est efforce de mettre ses resultats au service des producteurs a travers des
actions conjointes menees avec le PNVA, les Projets et Societes de Developpement, des ONG et des
Organisations Paysannes. L'impact de ce transfert dependra en partie de la mise en ceuvre des mesures
d'ordre macro-dconomique qui lui sont liees et qui sont du ressort de l'Etat (assouplissement des
modalites d'acces au credit, intrants, semences, 6quipement, etc...). II faut souhaiter que ces problemes
trouveront une r6ponse dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du PSAOP.
Sur le plan institutionnel, le choix du statut de l'Institut devrait etre un element determinant pour son
avenir. Dans ce rapport, ce choix semble etre a la base de I'amelioration de la gestion financiere et
comptable (decentralisation et autonomie des centres regionaux), de la gestion des ressources humaines,
de la gestion scientifique (regionalisation et pluridisciplinarite des 6quipes de recherche) et de
I'amelioration globale des performances de l'ISRA. A la lueur de ce document, c'est une des lecons que
nous pouvons tirer du deuxieme projet recherche agricole. Les engagements pris par le gouvernement
senegalais dans le cadre de la DPDA vont dans le sens du reglement de la situation statutaire de l'Institut.
Concernant la gestion des infrastructures et des equipements, des efforts importants ont e  deployes au
cours du PRAII mais les resultats auraient ete meilleurs si: (i) un manuel des procedures de gestion des
infrastructures et des equipements avait ete d6veloppe au tout debut du projet; (ii) les responsables des
centres avaient ete informes et sensibilises sur l'importance de cette gestion ; (iii) le personnel charge de
gestion avait ete implique dans l'elaboration des differents plans de rehabilitation. Le futur projet devrait
rapidement profiter de ces lecons et ameliorer les performances en matiere d'infrastructures et
d'equipements.
En conclusion, les mesures prises dans la derniere phase du PRAII montrent que l'Institut est sur la voie
du redressement et que les reformes engagees consolideront les acquis et corrigeront les faiblesses.
L'ISRA pourra alors devenir un organisme performant et durable repondant ainsi A sa mission et
participant A l'effort national de developpement.



APPENDIX C
Agricultural Research Project II
Summary Evaluation'
(by USAID/NRBAR)
l This summary evaluation was prepared by the USAID/Natural Resource-based Agricultural Research Chief-of-
Party who worked closely with ISRA and Bank staff over the last four years. The view points presented here are
the author's and do not necessarily reflect the views of USAID.



Appendix C
Page lof4
SUMMARY EVALUATION OF THE SENEGAL SECOND
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
The Second Agricultural Research and the Natural Resource-based Agricultural Research
(NRBAR) projects cover approximately the same period of implementation; the IDA project was
appraised, and implementation began, approximately one year before the Natural Resource-based
Agricultural Research Project (1990, compared to 1991). The IDA project was completed on 31st
December 1996, while the National Resource-Based Agricultural Research project is scheduled to end
in 1998. The objectives of both projects are virtually the same (see page (iii) of the IDA Staff
Appraisal Report and page 1 of the Accord de Subvention National Resource-Based Agricultural
Research). The Institut senegalais de recherches agricoles (ISRA) has taken primary responsibility
for the implementation of both these projects, and has funded activities from either project, depending
on the availability of funds for specific line items and the relative convenience of accessing funds for
various types of activities; in this way, program segmentation has been avoided. Cooperation between
ISRA responsible staff (largely the Director General, the Scientific Director and the Directors), World
Bank staff, and Natural Resource-based Agricultural Research staff has been excellent, not only at the
general management level, but also for the implementation of a large number of specific activities.
One of the most important public expressions of this cooperation was in the planning and
implementation of the joint mid-term review of ISRA in January, 1995.  This cooperation has
continued for the preparation of the Agricultural Services and Producer Organization Project.
The two projects were conceived with ISRA as being complementary, with differences
between the two projects being only in emphasis: a large proportion of the IDA funds (approximately
$7m.) has been spent on construction, equipment and vehicles, whereas a large proportion of the
Natural Resource-based Agricultural Research Project funds (approximately $5m.) is being spent on
technical  assistance.   IDA  concentrated  funding  on  the  ISRA  core  research  and
management/administrative programs, whereas the NRBAR concentrates funding on the natural
resource management and outreach programs. In addition, the NRBAR Project has provided direct
assistance to NGOs involved in extension, and this is a useful parallel to the IDA financing .of the
more formal extension system under a separate IDA project. NRBAR funds spent during 1991-96 are
estimated at $11.3m, with a further $5-6.4m projected for the period 1997-98. Progress towards the
NRBAR objectives is described in the various NRBAR progress reports.
The activities of ISRA funded under the Second Agricultural Research Project have assured
the continuity of the ISRA research programs when alternative funding sources were difficult to find,
and have resulted in significant progress in all areas of project focus, especially during the last two
years of the project. However, these gains have succeeded in achieving only modest improvements in
ISRA's performance, in terms of generating research results and adequately communicating these
results to clients. Such performance improvements are, in fact, difficult to measure in the absence of
adequate institutional monitoring and progress reporting. Nevertheless, given the present institutional
strength of ISRA, substantial improvements in performance can be expected in the future with the
more results-oriented and results-managed approach that is presently being developed.
ISRA's progress in each of the areas of specific Second Agricultural Research Project focus
can be summarized as follows:



Apendix C
Page 2 of 4
(a)     Adtive research: a higher proportion of total research is currently being
implemented as adaptive compared to 3-4 years ago, but progress is modest due to
much resistance to placing further emphasis on adaptive. Diagnostic survey work and
evaluation of existing technologies have been particularly strengthened, with
additional training and the creation of the Unite de Recherche Regionales (URRs) as
regional research teams. A collaborative research grants program developed since
1993 has been successful in ensuring that researchers work with partners in planning
and implementing adaptive activities.  There has been extensive training of
researchers in on-farm research methodology, and ISRA has created a research
development unit to specifically provide leadership to further developing the adaptive
research program. Client orientation has very significantly improved, with direct
participation of clients in ISRA's strategic planning, the creation of the Unites de
Recherche Regionales (URR), more formal linkages and contracts with partners, and
farmer evaluation of technologies under test. The adaptive research teams structure
was not developed as anticipated, but this has not been a constraint as the Unites de
Recherche Regionales system appears to be a stronger way of ensuring that adaptive
research is adequately supported. This focus of ISRA's work has high potential for
rapid development, given the results of investments made during the Second
Agricultural Research Project.
(b)    Appliedresearch: applied research is now more focused on the specific zonal needs of
farmers, following the creation of the Unites de Recherche Regionales and the
continued involvement of regional structures in strategic planning and research
contracts. A competitive internal research grants system ensures that the highest-
priority problems are funded. However, the overall quality of research continues to be
problematic, and research is still inadequately focused; although fewer research
activities are now being funded, and annual workplans now more adequately reflect
both expressed needs of clients and the available resources, substantial further
improvement is needed.
(c)    Natural resources management program: improvements in this area have been
substantial, although further more precise focusing of research is needed. ISRA has
created a Natural Resource Management Unit reflecting its renewed commitment to
this priority area of applied research, has developed a natural resource management
strategy for rainfed crops, and is currently funding a much higher proportion of total
research in this area. Numerous trials are now being conducted on farmers' fields to
ensure the development of appropriate organic and inorganic fertilizer
recommendations.
(d)    Research/extension/farmer linkages: ISRA has made a determined effort during the
latter part of the project period to strengthen and increase the productivity of these
linkages. ISRA now has formal contracts in place for joint research activities with
more than 20 partners in Senegal, and with a significant number of international
research organizations. Under these protocols, researchers train extension staff and
collaborating farmers, and partners participate with ISRA in planning, implementing
and evaluating the research. Given this strong institutional base, which ISRA
continues to expand, it should be easier for ISRA to conduct adaptive, farmer-focused
research in the future.



Apndi C
Page 3 of 4
(e)    Administrative and financial management: only very modest improvements in
administrative and financial management have been achieved during the period,
despite the large expenditures on infrastructure, equipment, training, technical advice,
and recurrent costs that have been made in this area.  The only significant
improvements were made within the last year, and it is not clear if these can be
sustained. Particularly problematic are the facts that financial accountability and
control remain weak, and a merit-based personnel evaluation and promotion system is
not yet implemented. On the other hand, research management improvements have
been substantial, with adequate procedures currently being developed, research
programs having more clearly-defined and realistic objectives, systems in place for
evaluating and revising research priorities, and a more results-focused program being
implemented.
(f)    Research support and revenue-earning services: only very modest improvements were
made in these services, and the independent production company proposal was not
implemented. Developments in this area has been particularly impeded through a lack
of technical leadership and management.
(g)    Funding of urgent research work: the research fund was not used. However, under
the NRBAR Project, ISRA did implement a competitive research grants system which
performed essentially the same function in a more sustainable way; work began
almost immediately after the proposals were approved (by a committee of the
Scientific Director), and were used to augment the resources of the more functional
teams.
Significant benefits were realized, in accordance with the general appraisal objectives: the
closer integration of research on crops, livestock and forestry; substantially more emphasis on the
restoration of soil fertility; reductions in compartmentalized research; an increased proportion of
adaptive research; much greater partners' participation in the research process; and closer coordination
with extension services. However, ISRA has not adequately monitored progress towards its results in
terms of technology development, has not established indicators of progress, and did not implement
adequate annual reviews of research proposals/results.
In general, the risks to implementation identified at appraisal significantly impeded progress,
but did not prevent achieving important research results. Although ISRA suffered from a lack of
program leadership for most of the project and did not develop a motivational career stream, sufficient
research operating funds were available to ISRA as a whole and satisfactory service linkages with
extension were developed. A continuing problem was the frequent unavailability of funds to
researchers in the field due to a lack of research proposals of acceptable quality, poor research project
management, poorly-operating administrative systems, and a lack of financial management and
control. ISRA has largely succeeded in reorienting the research program, and this process is still
continuing. However, it appears that the project was insufficiently focused on the technical aspects of
research compared to the further strengthening of infrastructure and human resources; as a
consequence, the quality of research remains problematic. ISRA is progressing towards a
management-for-results orientation, but this is especially impeded by a lack of research monitoring
and evaluation, and of personnel evaluation.
ISRA's management of the program has been weak; rigorous monitoring was undertaken only
during supervision missions, without results-oriented indicators and without the effective leadership



Apendix&C
Page 4 of 4
of ISRA staff. Adequate program progress reports were not written by ISRA staff, and assignment of
responsibility for program-related activities within ISRA has been problematic for most of the period.
On the other hand, with the creation of the regional research units in 1995, a number of key unit chiefs
have demonstrated excellent management results, reflecting the general management improvements at
ISRA since that time.
In conclusion, during the Second Agricultural Research Project period, ISRA has made
significant gains in all areas of project focus, but many of these were made only during the last two
years of implementation, gains are significantly less than anticipated, and basic improvements in
administrative and financial processes remain to be made despite the substantial investments in these
areas. Nevertheless, with a much-improved research base, ISRA is capable of substantial performance
improvements over the next several years.






I



IMAGING
Report No.:          16610
Type:     ICR



