e                      tDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Rleprt No. 7675-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SENEGAI.
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26, 1990
Agriculture Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution si.d may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



{ -4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CURRfNCY  QUIVALSENS
Currency unit: CIA Franc (CIA?)
1 US$ - CIA? 324
1 SDR - USS 1.32
(as of December 1989)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
ISRA: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFmIAL USK ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACROKMS
CDH            Centre d. D4veloppement Horticolo
(Horticultural Research Center)
CIAT            International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CILSS           Conit6 Inter-Etat de Lutte Contre la S&cheresse Sah4lienne
(Sahelian Drought Intergovernmental Committee)
CIRAD           French Center for International Cooperation in Agricultural
Research for Development
CNRA           Centre National de Recherche Agricole, Bambey
(National Agricultural Research Center)
CNRF           Centre National de Recherches Forestilres
(National Forestry Research Center)
CRODT          Centre ie Recherches Ocdanographiques de Dakar-Thiaroye
(Oceanographic Research Center of Dakar-Thiaroye)
IEMVT          Institut d'Elevage et de Medecine Vetdrinaire pour lea Pays
Tropicaux
(Animal Production and Health Research Institute for
Tropical Countries)
IRAT           Institut de Recherche Agronomique Tropicale et des Cultures
Vivrieres
(Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture)
ISNAR           International Service for National Agricultural Research
ISRA            Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
(Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
LNREV           Laboratoire National de l'Elevage et des Recherches
Veterinaires
(National Animal Health Research Laboratory)
MDR             Ministere du D4veloppement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
ORSTOM          Office de Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer
(Foreign Science and Technology Research Institute)
PAPEM          Point d'Appui pour Experimentations Multiples
(Large Scale Experimental Test Areas)
PQ              ISRA's 5-year Research Program
SAED           Societe d'Am6nagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve S6negal
(Senegal River Valley Development Agency)
SODAGRI        Rural Development Agency for the South East
SODEFITEX      Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(Rural Development Agency for the West)
SODESP          Societe pour le Developpement de l'Elevage de la Zone
Sylvo-pastorale (Sylvo-pastoral Livestock Authority)
SODEVA         Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Groundnut Basin Extension Agency)
SOMIVAC        Societe de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance
(Casamance Development Agency)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorization.



SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL Rr
Table of Contents
Pace
Abbreviations and Acronyms
Table of Contents                                                            {i)
Credit and Project Summary                                                   (iii)
Documents contained in the Project File                                      (vi)
I.    Backoround
A. Project Background.                                                   1
B. The RuralSector.                                                      1
C.  Government Objectives and Strategy.                                  2
D.    Agricultural Institutions ................................         3
E.  Bank's Lending Operations.                                           3
F.  Sector Lending Strategy.                                             4
II.   Agricultural Research
A.  Agricultural Research in Senegal.                                    4
B. ISRA.                                                                 6
C.    Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1176-SE).                       8
D.    Lessons Learned from the First Project .11
E.    Current Issues ...........................................        11
F.    Justification for a Second Research Project .12
III.  The Project
A.    ISRA's Five-Year Research Program .13
B. Research Priorities .14
C.    Planning and Management of Research .15
D Project Area .16
E.    Project Objectives and Summary Description .17
F. Detailed Features .18
G.    Anticipated Research Results during the Project .23
H.  Project Costs and Financing .24
I. Procurement .26
J. Disbursements .27
K. Environmental Imact .27
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which took
place in November 1988 and February 1989 and consisted of Messrs J. Cerych
(mission leader), A. Spurling, P. Sihm, F. Schorosch and Ms. J. Masterson (IDA).



- ii -
lV.  Proiect ImDlementation
a.   Organizati.on and Management ...................................................... 28
B.   Research - Zxtension Linkagk .............................    30
C.   Financial Control, Audit and Reporting ...................    31
V.   Benefits and Risks
A.   Main  Benefits             ... . ........................................  32
D. Project Risks                      . .                ..  32
VI.  Asoarances and Recommendation .................................    33
Annexes
1.  ISRA's 5-Year Research Program
2.  Research Programs Proposed for IDA Financing
3.  Salient Characteristics of Agricultural Zones
4.  ISRA's Links with International Agricultural Research
5.  ISRA's Fertilizer Recommendations
6.  Results of ISRA's Agricultural Research (1974-1988)
7.  Natural Resources Managemnent Research Program
8.  Research Support Services
9.  Project Costs
10.  Amounts and Methods of Procurement
11.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
12.   ISRA's Operating Expenses 1983-87
Charts
I.  Organization of ISRA
II.  Research Plan.aing Process
MaR   IBRD 21318



- Iii -
SICOD ASCULTUAL RUSA     PROJECT
Credit and Prouect Suiar,
Borrowert                 Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:              Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA)
Amount:                   SDR 14.0 million (US$ 18.5 million)
Terms:                    Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:          Proceeds of the Credit would be passed on in
grant form to ISRA.
Financing Plan:           Government  US$ 20.4 million
IDA         US$ 18.5 million
TOTAL       USS 38.9 million
Economic Rate of Return:Not applicable
Proiect Description:       The project, to be implemented over five years,
would focus on: (a) adaptive research involving
the testing, within the farming environment, of
the technologies developed during the first
project; (b) applied research targeted at major
technical problems in the priority agricultural
zones; (c) development of an applied research
program of natural resources management; (d)
strengthening of the linkages between research,
extension, development agencies and the farming
community; (e) strengthening of administrative
and financial management of ISRA; (f) providing
financial support for ISRA's research support
services and for establishment of a commercial
production company to manage revenue-earning
activities; and (g) establishing an unallocated
Research Reserve Fund to enable urgent research
work identified at the yearly research reviews to
be financed without delay.  The project provides
funds for civil works including central
headquarters of ISRA in Dakar, vehicles,



- iv -
equipment, local training, technical assistance
to ISRA's administration and financial management
(two years residence plus short term missions)
and incremental operat3ng costs. The total cost
of the project is estimated at USS 38.9 million
equivalent with a f,.eign exchange component of
US$ 10.5 million (272).
Benefits and Risks:       The closer integration of research on crops,
livestock and forestry will contribute to the
development of sustainable farming systems that
will assist with the restoration and conservation
of soil fertility and so with crop productivity.
An increased emphasis on adaptive research, with
the extension service and the farming community
participating in the research process, will
assist with the adaption of technical advances
made during the first project to the needs of the
farming community. This will be further
strengthened through the close coordination of
this project with that concurrently proposed for
agricultural services. Both the long-term needs
of the environment and the most immediate
technical problems of farmers will thus receive
high priority and compartmentalized scientific
research will be diminished.
Possible risks include a program segmentation
because of a multiplicity of cofinanciers of
research. slowness of ISRA's management in
achieving the shift in emphasis from thematic
research to multi-disciplinary problem-oriented
research, and ineffective feed-back from the
production systems research teams and from the
extension services. The major general risk is,
as was the case for the first project, that the
need to solve immediate specific problems will
prevent manak .nt from concentrating sufficient
supervision ar resources to the more conceptual
necessity of a *eorientation of the research
program. The annual reviews of the on-going and
planned research would address these risks.
Map:                       IBRD 21318
credit.sar
SARI



Estgimted Cost$ and Financing Pln
Ztimat,ed Cogts  a/                        Local        foreinm
----------USS million---------
Civil Vorks                                 0.8            1..         1.9
Zquipment                                   0.3            2.7         3.0
Vehicles                                    0.1            1.1         1.2
Operating Cost Research                    14.9            2.5       17.4
Operating Cost Administration               6.2            0.9        7.1
Consultants, Audit, Training                0.8            0.2        1.0
Reserve Research Fund                       0.1            0.9         1.0
Base Cost                            23.2            9.4        32.6
Physical Contingencies                      0.1            0.5        0.6
Price Contingencies                         4.3            1.4        5.7
Total Project Cst                    27.6           11.3        38.9
a/ Exclusive of taxes ard duties.
Financing Plan                            Local,       Foreign       Total
-(S$---- (US$ million)--------
Government                                 19.5            0.9       20.4
IDA                                         8.1           10.4       18.5
Total                                  27.6           11.3        38.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements                                 (USS million)
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual                           3.0    4.5    4.5    3.0    2.0    1.5
Cumulation                       3.0    7.5   12.0   i5.0   17.0   18.5
costs.pre
SAR2



- VI -
S       AGRCLTURAL        C!PIO !
Docuimnt Aailable 1in the Proj*ct Fil.
Strategies et Programmation des Recherches 1989-93 (10 volumes)
Detailed Project Cost Tables
Rapport Particulier Provisoire ISRA - Gestion du Personnel
Groupe de Travail - La Situation Financiere de l'ISRA (2 volumes)
docprfil.v
SAR1



smm
OECOND AMCULTURAL RESEARCP E
lSAv, APPflAI3AL
I * B&CKGROUND
A.    Proilot  ackoround
1.1         The Government of Senegal has requested IDA's assistance in financing
a second phase of the Agricultural Research Project (Cr.1176-SE) which will be
completed in June 1989. The first project was conceived as a first phase of a
long-term program of support and strengthening of the agricultural research
capacity of the natioi:.al Agricultural Research Institute, the Institut S6nLgalais
do Recherches Agricoles (ISRA). Although the broad lines of IDA's assistance
to ISRA remain unchanged, the Second Phase Project is focused on consolidating
achievements made under the first Project and on helping ISRA to implement its
and Government's five-year research program (Strat6gies et Progra-mmation des
Recherches 1989-1993). This Programme has been prepared by ISRA during 1987 and
has been commented upon by IDA as well as by other donors (USAID, FAC/CIRAD).
The final version of the Programme has been accepted by IDA and constitutes the
technical outline of the Project.
B.    The Rural Sector
1.2         Senegal has a total land area of nearly 200,000 km2. Its population
is currently about 7.0 million, and is growing at a cate of about 3% per annum.
Per capita GNP for 1988 was estimated at US$ 630, the highest of the Sahel
countries. Since 1960, Senegal has experienced, however, one of the lowest GDP
growth rates (2-3% per annum) of any African state not affected by war or civil
strife. Over the last few years, agriculture, which accounts for about 20% of
GDP, has contributed on average 22% of export revenues and has provided nearly
70% of all employment in the economy. Over 93% of the total sector income is
derived from rainfed agriculture, with groundnuts representing 75% of the total
monetary income for a typical family. Almost all output of the rural sector is
produced by small-scale units, but there is much diversity in farm size, labor
availability, ownership of agricultural equipment, productivity, and income.
Since seven out of ten Senegalese rely on the rurai sector economy tor their
livelihood, the sector will remain the main source of employment and income for
the large majority of the population for a long time.
1.3         Average rainfall has not only declined throtghout the country since
the sixties, but it has also become highly variable from one year to the next.
Arable land is estimated at 3.8 million hectares (about 19% of the land surface),
of which about 2.5 million ha are cropped annually. Extensive agriculture is
still dominant and population pressure is causing a constant shortening of fallow
periods. The main crops cultivated are groundnuts and millet/sorghum, followed



-2-
b, maize, rice, cotton, cowpeas and cassava. Agricultural exports, including
fisheries, remain e*ssntial to Senegal's balance of payments, although export
earnings dropped in 1986-88 due to falling international prices of groundnut and
cotton and to the aprreciation of the CFA franc vis-&-vis the dollar.
1.4         Despite considerable efforts at modernization, rainfed agriculture
continues to exhibit negative growth per head of the rural population. Aside
from the poer climatic conditions, *ome of the sector's principal constraints
relate tot (i) lack of dynaaism in agricultural technology generation and
diffusion;  (ii)    the  high  level of  dependence  of  the  rural  sector  on
millet/sorghum for domestic consumption,and on groundnut production for export
and the limited efforts in crop diversification; (iii) the lack of a well-
functioning capital market and credit system; (iv) the low productivity of large-
scale public investments; (v) the weak institutional environment for project
identification and implementation; and (vi) insufficient and weak agricultural
producer organizations.
C.    Governmnt Obiectiven and Strateov
1.5         Government objectives, strategy and policies in the rural sector have
evolved in response to changes in economic conditions and as a result of the poor
performance of the sector. During the 1960s and 1970s, Government efforts to
promote agricultural production focussed almost exclusively on the groundnut
subsector. Input distribution was tied to groundnut sales, and cereals marketing
policy did not encourage production of marketable surpluses. For most farmers,
groundnuts were therefore the single most important cash crop, while cereals
remained subsistence crops.
1.6         Adjustment of the economy became unavoidable at the end of the 1970.,
when a combination of poor finarcial policies, overambitious investment programs,
excessive internal and external borrowings, worsened terms of trade, and
successive droughts plunged an already weakened economy into a severe crisis.
In response to this situation, an adjustment program was introduced in the early
1980s to restore the country's situation through firm management of aggregate
demand. However, these policies were not sufficient to avoid deterioration of
the country's financial situation and the growth of external debt.   A new
adjustment framework was thus formulated in which the agricultural sector plays
a key role. This new framework concentrates on lifting supply-side constraints
and on creating an environment conducive to private sector participation and to
a reduced role for the State.
1.7         Within this framework, the Government issued in 1984 "La Nouvelle
Politique Agricole" (NPA), of which the basic aim was to promote food self-
sufficiency while consolidating the gains derived from industrial crops. The
NPA is oriented around five main axes: (i) organization and active pzrticipation
of farmers, and of the private sector in general with a concomitant reduction
of public control; (ii) reorganization and reduction of public sector
intervention; (iii) improvement of input supply through the provision of adequate
financial means; (iv) better organization and management, and (v) reduction of
pre- and post-harvest losses through intensified pest control. Thus the main
thrust of the NPA was to refocus reforms so as to emphasize the management of
both demand and supply.



-3-
D.    .oiultral Zn tLtutiQ
1.8         The  inistry of Rural Develoment (MDR) has overall responsibility
for development of the sector, but several other mlnistries, notably Livestock,
Invlronmantal Protection, Hydraullcs, Social Development, Intorior and Public
Works, each have som responsibliLty for rural development. While the Ministries
are primarlly responsible for policy-makLng, the actual lmpl ee ntatlon of those
policLes has, *snce lndependence, been entrusted to a number of para-publ±c
regional developmnt agencies (RDAs) rather than to Government Departments. Each
agency was charged with implementing rural development programs ln particula-
geographic areas.  MDR's structure and staffing aro weak and ill-adapted to
super"ising the current operations of the RDAs and the preparation and
impl ementation of projects.
1.9         The Regional Develooment Agencies include: SAED for irrigation in
the Senegal valley, SODEFITZX for extension work and cotton marketing in the
south-east, SODZSP for extension work and livestock development in the semi-
arid north-center, SODEVA for extension work in the Groundnut Basin, SOMIVAC for
planning and project execution in the south and SODAGRI in the south-east.
These agencies are primarily concerned with providing crop-related services, but
they are increasingly providing services to other subsectors, such as cattle
production.   These agencies'  staffs are relatively well paid and equipped
compared to Government departments, but, with the exception of SODZFITEX, their
financial soundness is unduly dependent on executina foreign-financed projects.
The agencies have different degrees of financial and managerial autonomy- Tlis
is due in part to their status either as wholly Government-owned enterprises
(SAED, SODESP, SOMIVAC, STN) or mixed enterprises with minority private ownership
(SODEF;TEX, SODEVA), but also to top management's style and willingness to take
initiatives.
1.10        ISRA has the sole responsibility for agricultural research in Senogal
since its creation in 1975 (para. 2.10 through para. 2.16).
B.    Bank's L-ndina Operations
1.11        Bank Group lending to Senegal's rural sector as of mid-1989 amounted
to US$ 170 million for 19 projects, 14 of which had been completed.  These
operations have bean in various subsectors, comprising: five projects for
engineering, technical assistance and construction of polders and large irrigated
perimeters; two agricultural credit project; two projects for rice cultivation
in the so;Ath; two resettlement projects in eastern Senegal; two rural
development-type projects, one in the Sine-Saloum and the other in Eastern
Senegal; a livestock development project in eastern Senegal; a forestry project,
three rural development fund-type projects, the Drought Relief Fund and the two
small rural operations projects; and an agricultural research project for which
the proposed project is a follow-up.
1.12        Project performance has in general been patchy, with poor management
performance and anticipated benefits increasingly unrealized, as completion
reports and project performance audits have consistently noted. Factors cited
as contributing to this generally disappointing performance are: (i) external



phenomena ranging from poor rainfall to inadequate national policies regarding
agricultural credit and input pricing; vii) poor choice of technologies; and
(iii) the weak institutional environment and the poor management performance of
rural development agencies.
F.    Sector Lendin-. Strategy
1.13        Until the early 1980s, Bank assistance was mostly project-oriented.
The acute financial crisis of the past several years and the maguitude of the
structural distortions in the economy led to a major shift in the Bank's
strategy. The Bank Group's operations now have the following main objectives:
first, to assist the Government with structural adjustment lending operations,
accompanied where appropriate by technical assistance, in order to improve the
production incentives and the efficiency of economic management, and to put
medium-term development efforts back on a sound financial footing; second, to
promote the economy's long-term growth and development by supporting structural
adjustment through well-prepared investments, rehabilitation efforts and sectoral
adjustment operations within a framework of appropriate sectoral policies; third,
to improve our knowledge of Senegal's  economic,  social,  institutional and
administrative frameworks so as to better tailor policy reforms to the country's
absorptive capacity; and finally, to help improve aid effectiveness in Senegal
by acting as the focal point for aid coordination between donors and the
Government, at the same time assisting the latter to strengthen its own planning
and aid coordination ability.
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A. Agricultural Research in Senegal
2.1         Crop Research.  Senegal has a long history of agricultural research,
beginning in Bambey in 1921 when a research station was established to produce
improved varieties of groundnuts and to study cultivation methods. In 1933 this
research was expanded to include food crops grown in association with groundnuts:
millez,  sorghum,  and cowpeas.   Later,  in 1936,  a chemistry laboratory was
established, and soil pedology investigations began. In 1938, Bambey became the
Federal station for agronomic research in French West Africa.   When Senegal
became independent in 1960, Bambey became the Centre National de la Recherche
Agronomique (CNRA). By bilateral agreement, the administration was placed in
the hands of the French research organization, Institut de Recherches
Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivri6res (IRAT).   In 1975 ISRA was
created and IRAT continued to assist in staffing with financial support from the
French Government.
2.2          The basic approach to research from the 1960s to the early 1980s
consisted of an intensification theme (with emphasis on choice of species - seed
varieties, seed multiplication and diffusion), improved cultural practices (date,
mode and density of sowing, pure cultures, and field maintenance), use of
agricultural inputs (chemical fertilizers, manure and phytosanitary treatment),
and the application of draft power and associated equipment to increase the
productivity of labor. Research concentrated on crop improvement, leading to
improved cultural techniques for the main cash crops, groundnuts and cotton.



-5-
There were alao research programs for food crops - millet, sorghum, maize, rice
and cowpeas, mostly in varietal improvements. Although the research in food
crops has generated higher yielding varieties suited to the shorter growing
seasons, farmers have generally proferred to grow traditional varieties which
have proved to be more reliable under local growing conditions, and have
presented no difficulty in multiplication - compared to those issued by resuarch.
2.3         Crop research before the phase 1 project had several major flaws:
%i) it had poor linkage- with agricultural extension and hence research results
were only to a limited degree successfully passed on to the farmer; (ii) it was
heavily oriented towards plant breeding, with little attention to existing farmer
constraints; (iii) it was organized along disciplines, but deficient in research
programming and coordination; and (iv) it was oriented towards on-station
r-zearch at the expense of on-farm research in farmers' fields. To reduce these
flaws, and hence improve research efficiency, the first project aimed at making
agricultural research more problem-oriented - that is more responsive and
applicable to the real constraints of the farmers - and to foster stronger links
between research and extenaion and development agencies. Decentralization was
pursued under the project through the establishment of nationally coordinated
multidisciplinary research teams on priority commodities and regional
agricultural production systems.
2.4         Animal  Research.    Animal  research  began  in  1935  with  the
establishment of a laboratory for veterinary research at Hann near Dakar. This
research station, like Bambey, had a federal responsibility for all of French
West Africa until Senegalese independence in 1960 when it became the Laboratoire
National de l'Elevage et des Recherches v4tdrinaires  (LNERV).   The French
organization, Institut d'Elevage et de mddecine vdtdrinaire des Pays Tropicaux
(IEMVT), continued to assist LNERV by the secondment of expert staff. In 1975,
LNERV was integrated into ISRAs' organization.
.5 J       Animal research has been concentrated at LNERV and its substation
at Sangalkam.  Researct. has mostly been related to animal health (virology,
bacteriology, helminthology, entomology and protozoology). The production of
vaccines (for several countries in West Africa) is a large activity at LNERV.
Some attention has been given to animal nutrition, genetics, physiology and
agrostology, especially at Sangalkam and at the Animal Production Research
Centers at Dahra and Kolda. Some research work on oxen has been carried out at
Bambey where the "Bambey breed" was created by crossing the Peul Zebu with the
N'Dama. Other cattle breed development work in Senegal includes the importing
of the Montbeliard and Pakistani breeds for milk production at Sangaikam; the
introduction of the Guzerat bried (zebu) from Brazil and subsequent selection
for adaptation at the Dahra station; and the genetic improvement of the N'Dama
breed at Kolda. Sheep improvement research has been carried out at Dahra with
the Touabir breed and at Kolda with the Djallonke breed.  Both stations have
included research on nutrition requirements of sheep and animal health control
programs.
2.6         After many years of research in -nimal pathology, vaccines are still
not easily accessible to small herders due, in large part, to inadequate
extension support. Furthermore, Improved strains (giving more milk and meat)
have not been widely adopted by traditional livestock owners.  Thus, while



-6-
research in animal pathology, especially in disease control and vaccine
development and production are fairly advanced in Senegal, much more remains to
be done in successfully transferring and integrating research findings into
livestock production systems as well as in reinforcing the linkages between
livestock and crop production systems.
2.7         Ocoanoaraphic Research in Senegal started in 1961, when the Office
de Recherche ScientLfique et Technique d'Outre-Mer (ORSTOM) established a central
research station in Dakar, the Centre de Rech-rche Oc4anographique de Dakar-
Thiaroye (CRODT). aesearch in oceanography was centered mainly on studies on
fisheries and aquatic resources potential, ecology and existing constraints, with
a view to developing the country's fishing industry and at the same time
protecting Senegal's water resources (oceans and rivers) from being depleted by
over-fishing.   ORSTOM has been successful in several important aspects of
oceanographic research, especially in the development of methods to monitor,
evaluate, and exploit fisheries resources, research in the biology and behavior
of different species, improvements in fisheries production techniques, and in
facilitating better understand.ng of the existing ecological infrastructures of
the oceanographic environment.
2.8         The challenge  for future oceanographic research  is to provide
adequate research responses to the problem of marine pollution, and to generate
more scientific data on the continental fishing potential, and the biology and
dynamics of the still unknown species.
2.9         Forestry Research. Research in forestry was conducted by the Centre
National des Recherches Forestier Tropical (CNRF) since 1965 under the management
of Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT). It was heavily oriented towards
identification, utilization and conservation of forestry resources, as well as
reforestation. The accomplishments in forestry research are not at all evident,
although the cumulative negative effects of adverse weather, such as loss of
vegetative cover, declining soil fertility, and increasing desert encroachment
in the northern part of the country, make it imperative and urgent to develop
appropriate responses. Future research should also aim at developing methods
for integrating the technical propositions from forestry research into existing
production and farming systems.
B.    ISRA
2.10        ISRA was officially created in January 1975 by unifying the existing
agricultural research centers C RA, LNERV, CRODT and CNRF under one national
Agricultural Research Institute. ISRA was initially under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Scientific and Technical Research (MRST). Under pressure from
the donors, the responsibility for agricultural research and ISRA was transferred
in 1986 to the Ministry of Rural Development.
2.11        ISRA is managed by a Director General appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Minister of Rural Development. The operations of ISRA
are supervised by a Board of Governors (Conseil d'Administration) consisting of
eight voting members and five consulting members whose president is appointed
by the Minister of Rural Development. A Scientific and Technical Committee (STC)
composed of prominent national and international scientists meets annually to



- 7 -
discuss with the Board and with ISRA the Institute's research programs and
results of past research. A Consultative Group on Agricultural Research composed
of all donors also meets annually to exchange views with GOB on the progress of
the ongoing research projects, the present and future financing of research, the
performance of the Borrower and the impact of on-going research on agricultural
development.
2.12        Currently ISRA has five scientific departments: Agrarian System
Research and Agricultural Zconomics, Commodity Research (Recherche sur ls
productions vfg4tales), Veterinary and Livestock Research, Forestry Research,
oceanographic and Fisheries Research and Support Research. ISRA has Research
Centers/Stations in Dakar (CDH, CRODT, LNERV, CNRF), Bambey, Djibelor, St. Louis,
Kaolack, Tambacounda, Dahra and Kolda.  The central laboratories and vaccine
production facilities for livestock are in Dakar-Hann. ISRA's administration
(other than research) is headed by a Secretary General. ISRA's general accounts
are the responsibility of an accountant nominated by the Ministry of Finance
(Agent Comptable Particulier - ACP). ISRA's accounting is now fully computerized
and the hardware and software (procured under the first Project) is adequate for
not only general accounts but also for budgetary and analytical accounts and
personnel administration. ISRA presently employs (mid 1988) 915 permanent staff
(excluding some 70 expatriates) of which 433 are directly involved in research,
265 are Technical support staff, 143 are administrative staff and 74 are other
lower level staff.
2.13        ISRA's Linkages with International Research.    Senegal has worked
closely with the international research community since the 1960s. France was
the effective partner, within its responsibility for the management of senegalese
agricultural research, until the establishment of ISRA in 1974.  Since then,
Senegal has maintained a strong working relationship with the CGIAR, initially
with rice (WARDA and IRRI) and livestock (ILCA). It now cooperates, in various
activities, with 11 of the 13 IARCs (Annex 4).  Senegal, which was a founder
member of WARDA, participates in its direction and the WARDA Irrigated Rice team
is currently taking the lead in rice research in the Fleuve region; it makes use
of ISRA research facilities. Senegal has regularly represented West Africa in
the annual CGIAR meetings, has participated in SPAAR meetings, and a senegalese
scientist has also been a member of the TAC.
2.14        The  relationship  with  individual  IARCs  depends  on  commodity
responsibilities, geographical location and the quality of individual scientific
contacts. At present, the strongest relationships are those with ISNAR and with
WARDA; regular contacts are maintained with IITA, ICRISAT, CIP, IFPRI, ILCA and
with IBPGR and occasional contacts are made with IRRI, CIMMYT and ILRAD. ISRPA
currently has no contact with either CIAT or ICARDA. During the period of the
Plan Quinquennal, ISRA plans to strengthen its linkages with the regional and
international research network. Financial assistance will be provided by USAID
for the continuation of the ISNAR studies on human resource development and
management, and also possibly for ISNAR's assistance with research planning and
development.
2.15        Financing of ISRA.        ISRA's  operations  and  investments  are
financed from the following sources:



(i)      The national budget;
(ii)      Tolerated overdraft with the Central Accounts of Public Enterprises;
(iii)      IDA credit to the Government (see under C below)1
(iv)      Bi-lateral financing agre eme nts (e.g. USAID, FAC, CCCl, CIRAD);
(v)      International financing agreements in the framework of multilateral
cooperation (e.g., CEZ, BAD);
(vi)      Agreements with the national Regional Development Agencies or other
governmental or non-governmental organizations;
(vii)      Own income from sales of vaccines and seeds.
2.16        The single most important source of financing is France whose
contributions have covered, over the last three years, about 30% of ISRA's
expenses. However, the French contribution consists principally of Technical
assistance (direct, CIRAD, ORSTOM).  IDA's contribution over the same period
covered about 25% of ISRA's expenditures, the national budget 22% (essentially
salaries), USAID financing decreased from 15% in 1986 to about 6% in 1988 and
own resources covered about 5%. The remainii.g financing needs were covered by
bi-lateral, multi-lateral and national conventions.
C.    Agricultural Research Proiect (Cr. 1176-SBI
2.17        In 1978, following a Bank preparatory mission, the Government of
Senegal requested help of the International Agricultural Development Service
(IADS) to prepare, in collaboration with ISRA, a Master Plan for improving the
national agricultural research system. The Plan made three main proposals: (i)
reorganization of ISRA and regionalization of agricultural research; (ii)
national coordination of multi-disciplinary commodity programs integrating them
into improved production systems; and (iii) establishment of priorities for the
regionalization of the above-mentioned programs. This Plan was submitted to the
Government and the Association early in 1979, reviewed and found generally
acceptable. Following this agreement ISRA prepared a more detailed proposal for
a first phase implementation of the Plan. After fu-ther refinement, the Plan
became the basis of the appraisal of the first Project which took place late in
1979.
2.18        The Project as prepared and appraised was a highly ambitious one
aiming at a broad reorganization and rationalization of ISRA and its oper tions,
it financed the rehabilitation of ISRA's research infrastructure, the
construction and equipment of over 100 staff houses, of several research
laboratories and procurement of trucks, tractors, vehicles, small farm equipment
and research supplies.  It also financed 880 man-years of scientists of which
240 man-years were to be expatriates, and the employment of 184 other scientific
staff, 384 support staff and 44 headquarter staff.  The total project cost wde
estimated at US$ 106.1 million, of which IDA financed USs ,9.5 million, the
Government US$ 32.9 million equivalent, France US$ 35.3 million equivalent and
USAID US$16.3 million, and UNIFSTD and ICRISAT/WARDA US$ 2.1 million.   The



-9-
Project, however, explicitly oxcluded research on oceanography, forestry and
horticulture because, it was felt, theme research subsectors were already being
financed, or would be in the future, under other projects. The SAR presentation
of the project as one research project cofinanced by several donors and the
Government was misleading.  In fact, there were several albeit complementary
projects aiming at &alisting ISRA to build up its research potential, each
project (and each donor) having different prioritiec, different procedures and
a different tim frame. The French financed mainly technical assistance, and
sowe specific research programs, USAID financed som  civil works (under two
distinct projects) and some specific research programs, training and specific
technical assistance; and IDA financed commodity and livestock research programs,
civil works, equipment, technical assistance, some training aad, although this
had not originally been planned, a large part of ISRA's overheads.
2.19        The project became effective in June 1983.   It became quickly
apparent to the supervision missions that ISRA did not follow the agreed
principles concerning its organization and, moreover, that ISRA's financial
situation deteriorated rapidly to the point of paralysis because of lack of
budgetary control, inadequate accounts and accounting procedures and incapacity
to prepare disbursement requests in time.   At the same time ISRA's staff
increased from some 600 during appraisal in 1979 to 1570 early in 1985. The Bank
had addressed several letters to the Minister of Scientific Research bringing
these issues to his attention without, however, receiving from him a satisfactory
answer. This led to the decision to send a supervision mission to Senegal early
in 1985 to review Project implementation in depth and to make recommendations
concerning the future of the Project.
2.20        The findings of the mission and its recommendations were communicated
in July 1985 to the President of the Republic.   The highlights  of these
recommendations were the following:
(i)      The Ministry of Rural Development instead of the Ministry  for
Scientific Research should become ISRA's overseeing authority;
(ii)      The legal form of ISRA should be changed to allow for independe'it
scientific and financial management;
(iii)      The organization of ISRA (Rbglement d'Etablissement)  should be
reviewed in order to establish a structure which corresponds, and
is adapted to the needs of research;
(iv)      A new accounting system should be put in place allowing for budgetary
control. In the meantime, an action plan should be prepared for the
rehabilitation of ISRA's finances. This plan should include changes
in personnel and elimination of redundant staff.
The President accepted all these recommendations in principle.
2.21        Since summer 1986 ISRA and the Government have implemented most of
the 1985 supervision mission recommendations:



- 10 -
(i)      I8RA is now und-r thk supervision (tutell*) of the Ministry of Rural
Developymnt;
(1i)      Tho accolnts are up-to-date and have been certified by independent
auditors 
(iii)      A new organisation chart has been put in place (although still not
officially approved by C08) giving the responsibility for all
research to the Directore of Ree-arch Departments;
(iv)      ISRA's liquidity position has substantially improved by timely
preparation of disbursement requests so that in 1987, for the first
time, funds for inputs and research were available when needed;, and
(v)      ISRA's staff has been reduced by nearly 500 to under 1000 persons
(early in 1987).
2.22        In spite of the difficulties discussed in para. 2.19 the overall
achievements of the project are far from negligible:
(i)      The management of Senegalese research is now entirely under national
directors and the number of Senegalese scientists has increased form
30 to 110. This increase and nationalisation of management has made
ISRA a truly Senegalese research institute and is a quasi guarantee
that, in the future, the national research effort will be oriented
towards national priorities and local factors;
(ii)      The creation of BAME (Department of Macro-economic Analysis) has had
highlv beneficial results as concerns collection of original data
required for sectoral analysis, and the reports prepared by BAME have
a great value because they are based on primary data and not on
recycled secondary data;
(iii)      The decentralization of .SRA's research and the introduction of
specialized teams in production-system research has produced precious
information for researchers at the station level and has resulted
in broader and more field oriented research programs of qreater
relevance to the farmer than originally planned;
(iv)      ISRA research has already generated many valuable varieties and
useful technologies for the agricultural sector (Annex 6). In the
major agricultural zones, rainy seasons have become shorter (by 10
to 20 days) and drier (average of 200 mm less rainfall) during the
past few years. The groundnut and small grain (millet and sorghum)
plant breeders have succeeded in developing short cycle drought
resistant varieties with acceptable yields and quality.  Some of
these varieties are already being extensively usui by farmers, as
is the Asperaillus flavus (casual organism of Aflatoxin) resistant
groundnut variety now widely (c. 50%) planted in the northern part
of the groundnut basis. A technical package (minikit) for cowpea
has been developed and extended to farmers.   The variety and
technical package now being used by cotton farmers in eastern Senegal



- 11 -
enables good yields to be obtained.   Veterinary research has
developed an effective program of disease control and appropriate
vaccines ar- being produced.  The population mapping program of
fisheries research has provided the base for improved management and
exploitation of fish stocks.   Forestry research has identified
suitable species for different agro-ecological areas. The farming
system research teams have, in their definition of the principal
farming systems and in their identification of the most important
technical constraints, provlded a strong foundation for effective
research during the next phase of ISRA's development.
D.   Lessons  earned from the First Proiect
2.23        During the implementation of the First Project research still paid
relatively little attention to the linkage of research with extensions and
research was not sufficiently oriented to meet farmers, needs.  The Second
Project  will  address  these  issues.    Also,  during  the  first  years  of
implementation, ISRA's liquidity was at times so low that funds were not
available for research supplies and for research related operating cost. The
Second Project will address this issue by creating a revolving fund covering
about  6 months  of  eligible  expenses.    ISRA's personnel  cost  increased
dramatically between appraisal and 1985 because of insufficient control by the
"Ministere de Tutelle" and by inadequate financial management. The financial
management has much improved since 1986 and the Second Project would ensure that
the improvements achieved would be permanent by insisting on competent staffing
and by making the submission of a detailed yearly budget and financing plan -
to be approved by IDA - a condition of disbursement for the following year.
E.    Current Issues
2.24        Following an agreement with the Bank (SAL II) and the Fund, the
Government started in 1986 to reduce its budgetary allocation to all public
enterprises, including ISRA. The Bank has on several occasions called to the
attention of the Government that the agreed budgetary reductions should apply
only to enterprises generating their own income and, therefore, not to ISRA.
As a consequence of the Bank's interveation, the Government agreed to increase
ISRA's 1988 and 1989 budget to the 1985 level of CFAF 1.45 billion. In January
1990 the Government informed IDA that the same budget allocation to ISRA will
be maintained at least during the next two years. In order to insure adequate
and continuous government financing of ISRA throughout the project implementation
period it has been agreed during negotiations that the IDA's approval of ISRA's
annual work plan, budget and financing plan will be a condition of IDA
disbursements for the following year.  In this way, Bank funding of research
program operating costs is leveraged on Government funding of non-incremental
costs.
2.25        As a result of the 1985 in depth review of the First Project the
Government agreed to a new "Ddcret Organique" for ISRA which would codify ISRA's
new organization and its functions and duties. Although the new organization
has been implemented (para. 2.21 (iii)), the organizational decree has not been
officially accepted and signed by Government. Signature of this decree would
be condition of effectiveness.



- 12 -
2.26        ISRA's prevent budget covers salaries of ISRA's permanent staff and
a minor part of operating costs. In 1985 ISRA revised the salaries of its staff
in order to implement its "ROglement d'Ztablissement".  An analysis of I RA's
salaries prepared early in 1988 by the Commission de Verification des Comptes
et de Contr6le des Ztablissements Publics (CVCCZP) of the Supreme Court has found
that this salaries revision and personnel reclassification was done arbitrarily,
with some employees doubling their previous salaries and similar functions being
remunerated differently according to centers. According to the same analysis,
should the "Riglement dEgtablilsement" be applied quitably and efficiently,
ISRA's yearly salary cost would be reduced by between CFAF 200 to 300 million.
Government agreed with the Association that a reclassification of ISRA's
personnel im required but argued that it cannot be done in one definitive step.
A solution is being - and will continue to be - found in a gradual, non-
confrontational way by salary caps on existing staff, and application of
reclassified wage rates for new entries.  Further progress will be closely
monitored during supervision of the proposed project, particularly through the
annual disbursement condition for research program operating costs.
2.27        Improvement in ISRA's management and administration achieved under
the First Project are still fragile. An extended period of consolidation and
further improvement in administration procedures is a condition of ISRA's sound
management and the effectiveness of its research activity.  Employment of a
highly qualified and experienced secretary general, acceptable to the Association
would be a condition of effectiveness.
F.    Justification for a Second Research Proiect.
2.28        The first project supported the second phase of ISRA's (1982-1987)
development. This has been characterized by rapid growth of the research network
and by structural reorganisation. This development has been supported by several
donors, the most important being IDA, France and USAID. The number of Senegalese
research scientists has increased four-fold (from 30 to 110) in six years; the
research stations and their laboratories have been comprehensively re-equipped;
the regional coverage by the research service has been considerably expanded;
and, a program of farming systems research has been started. Unfortunately, the
speed and extent of this redevelopment has over-extended the management capacity
of ISRA and the capacity of the government to provide sufficient operational
finance.
2.29        The second project, building on the strong infrastructural and human
resource base now in place, would assist government with the consolidation of
its research effort with emphasis on research programs expeuted to yield results
in the short term.  It would assist ISRA with its programming, management and
financing of priority research programs, as identified within its recently
drafted Master Plan (Plan Quinquennal 1989-1993), and would therefore make a
critical contribution to the effective utilization of the capital invested during
the first research project.   The financial and environmental fragility of
Senegal's agricultural sector requires carefully focussed research if the
contribution of the agricultural sector to the economy is to he maintained. The
Government is unlikely to be able to support the costs of its agricultural
research without continued financial assistance from IDA and other donors.



- 13 -
MII.  TM PRJ3
A.    ISRA'a Five-Year Research Proj=r
3.1         The challenge for ISRA is considerable.  The combination of lack of
progress in genoration of appropriate technologies, the increasingly precarious
domestic food situation given national and urban populatior growth, *coromic
pres-ures on comaodity export markets and the gradual deterioration of the
natural environment make careful planning critical if the constrained national
resources available for agricultural research are to be effectively used. The
Government's agricultural policy (Nouvelle Politiquo Agricole) is ambitious and
sooks to combine increased agricultural production with social benefits and
increased protection of natural resources. To answer this challenge ISRA has
prepared a Research Strategy and Five-Year Research Program (Plan Quinquennal -
PQ).  The development of this Program hes enabled ISRA to define better its
operational strategy and prioritize its research program according to various
criteria. The PQ includes economic, social, institutional, organizational, and
national policy considerations together with the more basic objective of
technology development. The initial plan, which attempted to respond to many
needs, exceeded the limited management, scientific and financial resources of
ISRA. in refining the program during the appraisal process, ISRA has prioritized
research to both the solution of the most critical technical problems now
encountered by farmers in the highest potential regions and has more closely
integrated research programs on crops, livestock and forestry so as to better
ensure a multidisciplinary approach to land management and agricultural
production.  ISRA will also initiate a long-term program on natural resource
manacement.
3.2         The PQ (Annex 1) includes 32 research programs within eight regions.
These cover the major disciplines of crops, livestock, forestry, fisheries and
horticulture in addition to farming systems and natural resource management
research. These regional research programs would be supported by 13 national
research programs, by central laboratory services, and by the Directorate of
ISRA. The four pre-extension programs (including basic seed production, vaccine
production and information services) would become, during the course of the
proposed project, a self-financing Production Entity under the umbrella of ISRA.
3.3         Senegal's greatest potential for sustainable expansion of rainfed
agriculture is in the Sudanian zone (Casamance, Eastern Senegal and the southern
part of the Groundnut Basin).  Agricultural productivity can still be improved
in this zone through traditional technology development.   The deteriorating
ecological conditions in the Sahelian zone (the Fleuve and the northern part of
the groundnut basin) necessitate a different approach to technology innovation
and resource management.  The potential for increased crop production in the
irrigated areas of the Fleuve and the Casamance is high; technology development
will include both the management of the irrigated lands (water, salinity and
acidity)  and  intensification  of  production.    At  present,  productivity
improvements in the irrigated areas of the Fleuve are constrained by socio-
economic factors. The motivation for the cultivation of the irrigated parcels
is currently the acquisition of land rights rather than increased yields per se.
However, 4.mproved technologies will be increasinglv utilized as the availdbility
of irrigated land becowes a constraint. It is therefore necessary now for ISRA



- 14 -
to start to develop appropriate technologies for intensification of production.
3.4         The PQ includes: (a) applied research on the research stations and
on the experimental sites (PAPEMs) implemented by ISRA research staff; (b)
adaptive research on the PAPZMs and in farmers' fields implemented by research
and extension staff with the participation of farmers; and (c) on-farm testing
carried out by farmers with the assistance of extension and res-arct personnel.
This programe will be jointly managed with extension personnel operating within
the development agencies and would interphasu with the proposed Agricultural
Services project.
3.5         The total cost of the PQ has been estimated at CFAF 19.65 billion
(US$ 63.4 million) before ISRA's salary structure revision (para. 2.26). The
cost of the PQ would be reduced to CFAF 18.15 billion (USS 58.5 million) after
the revision is implemented.   A significant part of the Senegal's research
activities have traditionally been financed by external donors, originally
largely by French bi-lataral assistance and more recently by USAID, IDA and a
number of other donors of lesser importance (para. 2.15 - 2.16). However, the
Government's contribution has been, over the years, far from insignificant and
represented over the last three years between CFAF 1,2 to 1,6 Billion, or 0.6% -
0.8% of the primary sector GDP. Because of the serious financial situation of
Senegal a substantial increase of Govtarnment financing during the five-year
period is unlikely, hence the need for outside assistance. It has been agreed
by Government that its contribution towards ISRA's expenses will finance the
total of personnel expenses of the Senegalese permanent staff of ISRA plus
utilities and taxes, and ISRA's non incremental recurrent operating costs. The
French financing expected to amount to about CFAF 2.0 Billion (excluding
Technical Assistance) will cover selected research programs in forestry and
vegetable crops. USAID project 'Strengthening Agricultural Research' (USS 18.5
Million over eight years) will contribute to the financing of PQ by about CFAF
220 Million.  Other international, bilateral and national research contracts
specifically earmarked for certain research programs included in the PQ will
contribute CFAF 1.8 Billion equivalent to the financing of the PQ. ISRA's own
income from the sale of vaccines and seeds is expected to amount over tne period
to CFAF 1.5 Billion. IDA credit of US$ 18.5 Million would contribute US$ 15.3
Million to the funding of the PQ. The summary financing plan of the PQ is in
Annex 1.
B. Research Priorities
3.6         The Government's agricultural policy is to cover 80% of domestic
cereal needs by the year 2000. At present, approximately 75% of farm incomes
are derived from sorghum/millet and groundnuts and only 6% from rice.  The
greatest potential for realising technological advances in cereal production is
through the development of irrigated production of rice and maize. The market
potential for surpluses of these crops is good. However, it is also important
to consider th" relative numbers of potential beneficiaries and the probable
economics of production.
3.7         The PQ allocates slightly less financial weight (1.1.4) to the
rice/maize program as to that for the more traditional annual crops
(sorghum/millet and groundnuts). Senegal, assisted by the donor community, is



- 15 -
currently investing heavily in thi development of irrigation in the rleuve
region. Realization of an economic return on this investment will depend on the
development of appropriate technologies by research. On the other hand, the
development of technical recomendations (including the use of fertilizer) that
will sustain and then improve productivity in the Groundnut Bain, a region of
generally low soil fertility and low rainfall but dense population, will also
require much investment in research albeit that a high rate of return cannot be
expected. The challenge for ISRA will lie in the definition and implementation
of *ffectivo programmes in both areas and although invpstment may not be
congruent with expected rate of return, other demographic and social
considerations make the planned investment justifiable.
3.8         Senegal has already vecured financial support for irrigated maize
research (through CIRAD) and for irrigated rice research in the Fleuve (through
the cofinanced Irrigation IV project). Irrigated rice research would also be
strengthened by the permanent WARDA team located at Saint Louis (Fleuve). The
proposed project would support rainfed millet, sorghum, groundnut, maize and
cowpea research in the Groundnut Basin and also natural resource management
research in these heavily populated and cropped zones. France would continue
to provide major financial assistance for the large groundnut research programme.
3.9         In 1988, it is probable that agriculture will contribute 52% to the
primary sector GDP, livestock 32%, fisheries 11% and forestry 5%. The allocation
of resources within the PQ is not congruent with this since the budget allocated
for fisheries research is twice that for livestock.   While the financial
allocation for forestry research in the Plan matches that of its financial
contribution to the primary sector GDP, the importance of trees as a source of
animal feed and for protectioni of crops and the environment make the sub-sector
more important than timber production statistics would indicate. The proposed
project would ensure that the forestry research programme was fully funded. This
would be further strengthened by the proposed natural resources management
research programme. Fisheries research is already supported by other donors and
the pronosed project would not support this sub-sector. Financial support would
be provided for livestock research and more effort would be invested in fodder
crop production and pasture production rather than in species identification
which has previously been the pasture sub-sector priority. Pasture grasses and
leguminous trees would also be tested within the national resources management
research program. This would include selected veterinary rrograms and animal
production research within coordinated programs involving crops, livestock and
forestry research.
C. Plannina and Nanaaement of Research
3.10        In 1988, ISRA developed the strategy for national agricultural
research within their PQ (para. 3.1).  This plan has been framed by national
agricultural policy as enunciated by government in the NPA. The latter includes
social and environmental objectives in addition to the more fundamental economic
goal of increased agricultural production. The PQ formulated by ISRA management
and agreed to by Government, has prioritized research by sub-sector and by region
and has identified the manpower and financial resources required. Current USAID
financial support is assisting with the planning of human resources for research
and the proposed project would extend ISNAR's aasistance to further development



- 16 -
of research prioritization (para. 3.28). Tho PQ also details the organLiation
of research management, *upport aerviess and monitoring and evaluation. UNIVAL,
an ISRA support service, is responsible for the dissemlnation of research results
to the farming public through appropriate publications (para. 3.30).
3.11        Detailed regional programs have been formulated for five years and
reflect both the comparative potontial and difficulties of the different
ecological zones. Each regional documnt includes a series of proposed research
pro.irams, supported by their resource requlremntz (manpower and finance),
designed to answer the most urgent technical d^-ands of that region.  These
programs have been developed by the Directors of Research working with the
commodity coordinators (para. 4.6). They would be revised *ach year to reflect
both past results and new technical needs, and would be agreed with the extension
services at the annual National Technical Comittee meeting (para. 4.8).
3.12        Individual scientists plan their own research programs to answer
technical questions specified in the regional programs. These are then reviewed
by the program coordinators and modified to fit the resources available. These
programs are then subjoct to further review and control by the respective
directors of research before being submitted to ISRA management and the national
Technical Conmittee. The process of reporting on results follows the same path
with individual scientists responsiile for reporting annually to their program
coordinators, who then collate the program report.  Program coordinators are
responsible for ensuring that supporting information for new technical
recommendations is provided in an appropriate format for use by the extension
service. The development of technical committees at both national and regional
level (p4ra. 4.9), as proposed under this project and under that planned for
agricultural extension, would assist with both an appropriate orientation of
research to priority field problems and with rapid dissemination of new
technology.
D.    Proiect Area
3.13        Senegal is a country with great variations in climate, population
density and agricultural farming systems (see Map IBRD No. 21318). Mean monthly
temperatures range from 18 C to 31 C.  The mean annual rainfall is extremely
variable, and with the exception of the Casamance where it may last for five
months, is concentraced in the three-month period of July, August and September.
Annual precipitation varies between 200mm in the north of Senegal and 1200mm in
the south, but the increasing dryness and unreliability of rainfall during the
last 10 years has increased the stress on both crops and lives#.ock. The country
can be divided into six principal agro-ecological zones: the Senegal River
Valley, the Sahelian region, tne North Coast and Cap Vert region, the Central
region, the Eastern region and the Casamance. The salient characteristics of
the different zones are summarized in Annex 3.



- 17 -
B.    Proiect Obiectles a nd Sumarv DescriutLon
3.14        The Flve-Year Research Program developed by ISRA and approved by
the Government reflects a rlgorous analyals of geographlcal and thematic
priorities and the proposed Project would support thli Program and contribute
to its financlng.  A rlgorous annual revliw of priorities and a program of
participatlve adaptive research, in conjunction wlth the development agencies
and farmers, would be implemented under the proposed project.  The research
program would, through both the establishment of a special research program on
Natural Resources Manag eme nt (Annex 7) and a closer integration of r-aearch on
crops, livestock and agro-forestry, contribute to the protection of the
environment and to the improvement of soll fertility. Farming systems would be
developed for each major agro-ecological zone.  Increased  mphasli  on research
and development would hasten the adaptation of technlcal advane-s made during
the first project to the needs of the farming community.  Regional research
progrims would be strengthened in zones of greatest agricultural importance.
Adequate operating funds would be provided under this project and under the
proposed extension project for programs of off-station research.   Research
planning and programming would be framed by the Nouvelle Politique Agricole (NPA)
and by the technical problems confronting farmers and the environment.
3.15        The main  features  of  the  project,  involving  investments  and
intitLutional development, would be as follows:
(i)      financial support to ISRA for implementation of selected research
programs of the PQ;
(ii)      strengthening of administrative and financial management of ISRA;
(iii)      adaptive  research  involving  the  testing,  within  the  farming
environment, of the technologies developed during the fLrat project;
(iv)      applied research targeted at major technical problems in the priority
agricultural zones;
(v)      development of an applied research program of natural resources
management;
(vi)      strengthening  of  the  linkages  between  research,  extension,
development agencies and the farming community;
(vii)      training in research planning and programming for ISRA management
and research staff;
(viii)     provision of financLal support for ISRA's research support services
and for establishment of a commercial production company to manage
revenue-earning activities;
(ix)     establishment of an unallocated Research Reserve Fund to enable
urgent research work not identified at this time to be financed
without delay.



P.    Detailed Features
3.16        Financial Suvoort to ISRA   To enable ISRA to execute its PQ the
credit woald finance:
(a)   the cost  (other than salaries of permanent staff)  of priority
research programs included in the PQ and not financed or only
partially financed by Governennt and other donors (Annex II).
Financing would cover (i) equipment and vehicles nec-eary for the
execution of the programs, (ii) indemnities and occasional labor and
(iii) inputs and related costs;
(b)   the cost of a Natural Resources Management Program to be set up and
executed by ISRA under the project;
(C)   a Research Reserve Fund for urgent research programs not presently
identified;
(d)   Investments (minor civil works, vehicles, scientific and laboratory
equipment and computer equipment) necessary for efficient operations
of ISRA's scientific and administrative management and of ISRA's
research stations;
({)   New headquarters for ISRA in Dakar. Present facilities (rented) are
entirely inadequate, ISRA's management and scientific directors are
dispersed in several buildings over the town, communications b4itween
the Department directors is difficult and slow and physical
facilities are entirely inadequate. Financing of ISRA's headquarters
has been agreed under the First Project and detailed plans including
bill of quantities have been prepared. Execution has been postponed
to the Second Project because of time constraints.
(f)   Technical assistance to ISRA's administration (para. 3.17 below),
audit of ISRA's accounts, local training, assistance to Research
Planning and Programming and travel expenses and per diem for four
members of the Scientific and Technical Committee.
3.17        Strengthening of Administrative and Financial Management of ISRA.
ISRA'a administration, accounts and financial management has much improved during
the implementation of the First Project. These improvements were achieved by
technical assistance and an extended period of consolidation of these
achievements is required to ensure their perennity. The project would provide
technical assistance on a periodical basis geared at (i) assisting the accounting
department in implementing the newly introduced procedures, (ii) improving
internal controls, (iii) introducing and supervising cost accounting and
budgetary control, and (iv) training of staff to improve their skills in their
respective fields of activity.
3.18        Adaptive Research.  Farming systems research during the first phase
has defined the principal farming systems in the Casamance, the Senegal River
Valley and the southern part of the groundnut basin (Sine-Saloum). This program



- 19 -
has also identified the principal technical constraints and concerns of farmers.
During the proposed project, a vigorous program of adaptive te'sarch would
respond to these problems, utilizing the material and technologies already
developed by applied research.  Although both Systems and 1hematic research
personnel would be involved, the regional Systems coordinator would direct the
adaptive research program for that region. Participation of research staff, the
extension stdZf of the development agencies and the farming comunity (paras.
3.26 and 4.9 - 4.12) would be as followas (i) tria's on the PAPEMs and in
farmers fields implemented by research staff with the involvement of extension
staff and farmers during the planning and evaluation stages; and, (ii) on-farm
testing carried out by farmers with the support of extension personnel and with
assistance from research during planning and evaluation. The Systems research
teams would also continue to carry out appropriate diagnostic surveys. To assure
an improved integration of the adaptive research program into the national
research program, ISRA would arrange for the rotation of some scientists (on a
3 to 4 year basis) between the applied and adaptive research teams.
3.19        Applied Research - Senegal River Vall.   Agricultural production
and increa&ed productivity is constrained by wide annual variations in the extent
of the river flood; by increasing salinity in the delta; by drying winds and
unreliable rainfall patterns;  and by generally low soil  fertility.   Also
important are socio-econontic factors that currently limit both the farmer demand
for yield-Lncreaeing technologies and the economics of high input/output
agriculture.  Since the greatest potential for productivity improvementa in
cereal production is irrigated farming systems, the principal focus for research
would be irrigated rice and maize, particularly techniques effective for the cool
season.    The  research  program  would  develop  profitable  (unsubsidized)
technologies for both single and double cropping under irrigation as well as for
flood recession areas. Researchers would study land management techniques for
the three distinct soil types of the region, and for the saline soils of the
delta; would determine optimum water use patterns for irrigated crops; and would
investigate the potential for diversification of cropping in the cool season
(e.g. wheat and vegetables). Livestock and agro-forestry specialists, within
the multidisciplinary regional systems team, would work with the crop scientists
on farm management, developing the optimum combination of enterprises for both
productivity and protection of natural resources. The proposed project would
support the water and soil management and agro-forestry program in the Fleuve,
a program that will, inter alia, refine fertilizer and water use recommendations
for the different crops and soils and improve the management of the environment.
3.20        Applied Research - Casamance.  Agricultural  potential has steadily
diminished during the past 10 years. In the estuary, this has principally been
due to increasing dryness which has accelerated the development of soil salinity,
acidity and toxic levels of iron and aluminium. In the upland areas, the reason
has been the reduction in soil fertility following shortening of fallow periods
under population pressure.  The region has now become an importer of basic
foodstuffs. A multidisciplinary research team would continue with both thematic
and systems research, priority being accorded to water and soil management and
to intensification of rice production. The systems team would continue to work
closely with development agencies and farmers on the testing and adaptation of
technologies for both the irrigated and dryland areas. Initial experimentation
witn water control and the use of compost and phospho-gyp (by-product of



- 20 -
manufacture of phosphatic fertilizers from natural phosphate) ham shown promise
for the control of increasing salinity and iron and aluminium toxicity in the
e*tuary. Tho rice program would continuo to develop varieties and technologies
that were appropriate for the different rice production systems used in the Basso
Casamance. Attempts would be made to develop sustainable cropping syatems for
rainfed crops (particularly groundnuts, maize, rice, sorghum and millet) that
would arrest the steady deterioration in yields.   This would require the
developmnt of restorative cropping rotations. A small horticultural program
would support the increasing farmer interest in the production of fruit and cool
season vegetables.   The proposed project would support the soil and water
management, farming systems and rice research programs, thus complementing
financial support already secured for other components of the regional research
program.
3.21        Avvlied Research - Eastern Reaion and Upper Casamance. This region
is still less densely populated and farmed than the other agricultural regions.
However, continuous cropping in some areas has already caused soil exhaustion.
The priority for applied research would therefore be the development of
integrated farming systems that would optimize farm output and enhance soil
fertility.   The cotton research program wouJ.d include variety improvement,
fertllizer (organic and inorganic), husbandry (especially weeding) and pest
control (chemical and biological) trials. Reeearch on other annual field crops
(maize, groundnuts, millet etc.) would be strengthened. In addition to continued
animal traction research, the livestock program would include research on the
use of crop by-products in livestock feed. Forestry species would be evaluated
for their utility for forest products and also for livestock feeding and
restoration of soil fertility. The proposed project would support the cotton
and crop diversification, livestock, agroforestry and systems research programs.
3 2k        Applied Research - Sine-Saloum. Existing technologies have not been
sufficient to enable agriculture to even maintain its productivity in the face
of mounting human and livestock numbers and financial pressures. The systems
research team working in Sine-Saloum during the first project has defined the
principal farmina systems and agricultural problems of the major agro-ecological
zones. Shorter cycle varieties of the main crops (millet and groundnuts) have
also been selected. The principal priority for applied research during the PQ
would be the development of financially viable technologies for integrated
farming systems that would in the short-term arrest the decline (including
control of erosion) and in the long-term would restore soil fertility.  The
groundnut research team would continue with its development of high yielding
cultivare resistant to Asperaillus flavus (aflatoxin), and to the control of
aflatoxin in small-scale oil processing plants.  Ths proposed project would
supp.-t the maize and sorghum, agroforestry, grain storage, aflatoxin control,
soil fertility and systems research programs.
3.23        Applied Research - The Sylvo-Pastorale Zone.  Steady degradation of
the environment, combined with social and economic pressures, necessitate a broad
multidisciplinary systems research approach.   A small research team would
continue to study the agro-sylvo-pastoral production systems and identify the
principal technical constraints. A multidisciplinary team would address range
and vegetation management, animal nutrition and production together with the
preservation and rehabilitation of renewable natural resources. Research on the



- 21 -
integration of livestock into crop production systems would contribute to the
optimization of farm output and the maintenance of soil fertility. The selection
programs of the Zebu Gobra cattle and Peulh-Peulh sheep would continue, but with
increased participation of the farmers themselves.  The program would become
self-supporting through the sale of breeding animals. The proposed project would
support the multidisciplinary systems research program, involving initial studies
and inventories followed by farming systems development.
3.24        Natural Resources Manaaement Research Prora  (Annex 7)  The agro-
ecological environment of Senegal is generally unfavorable, and its further
gradual deterioration is steadily increasing the pressures on the agricultural
sector. The increasing demographic pressure, the fragility and diminishing
organic matter content of the soils and the uncertainty of the climate combine
to pose a real threat to the long-term viability of the existing production
systems. Increasing areas of agricultural land are becoming too exhausted to
produce acceptable crop yields and erosion is further reducing the land available
for cultivation.  Also, some parts of the research stations which have been
extensively cropped over several years, are now showing extreme soil exhaustion
and, in some cases, erosion has become a serious problem.   Increasing soil
salinity, acidity and toxicity of iron and aluminium are now serious prozlems
on some of the irrigated research parcels at Djibelor (Lower Casamance) and
similar problems have already significantly diminished the area available for
irrigated cropping.  Such areas on the research stations Iprovide an advance
warning of the widespread soil exhaustion and erosion, which in the absence cf
improved management of production systems, will occur more generally in the rural
areas.
3.25        An applied research prog-am of ratural resources management (based
on both the research stations and on appropriate village land) would be
undertaken in the principal agricultural zones.   The program would develop
farming systems for the major agro-ecological zones that would restore and
sustain soil fertility, control erosion and stabilize output on a sustainable
basis. The proposed project would provide finance for the first phase of this
program covering research support staff, vehicles, equipment and operating
expenses.
3.26        Fertilizer  research  and  recommendations.    ISRA  has  developed
fertilizer recommendations (Annex 5) for the principal rainfed annual crops,
major agricultural regions and for different levels of inteoosification (technical
capacity, resources and interest of individual farmers). ISRA considers that
these recommendations are profitable (at current prices) for farmers wr, follo
technical recommendations and provided the annual rainfall is at least 400 mm.
However, because of their development on research stations under good management,
there are doubts about the validity of the recommendations for smallholder
farmers,  particularly  given  the  unreliability  of  the  climate.    Crop
intensification of rainfed crops will necessitate increased fertilizer use but
this involves a considerable financial risk for the farmer and it is critical
that recommendations are correctly established and continuously verified and
updated. Since 1982, insufficient manpower and finance has so constrained the
fertilizer research program that it is now almost entirely restricted to the
research stations.   It is important that Senegal now begins to implement a
broader and deeper national fertilizer program, located principally in farmers



- 22 -
fields. Supporting work on the research stations must regularly update the yield
response curves for new varieties and climatic conditions. Recommendat._ons need
to be kept appropriate for climatic, soil and price changes.   The proposed
project would provide financial support for fertilizer experimentation, botn
within the long-term natural resources management and regional research programs.
The planned agricultural extension project would contribute towards the financial
cost of the on-farm fertilizer research program and the trials would be
implemented by the farmers themselves with technical support from extension and
research staff.
3.27        Research - Extension linkages would be strengthened through improved
coordination between ISRA and the agencies responsible for extension in the
planning and management of adaptive research programs; and also by the joint
implementation and ex-post evaluation of these programs by research and extension
staff. Strengthening of the coordination between reseaLch and extension would
be promoted through (a) the setting-up of joint extension/research technical
committees at the national and regional level; (b) closer collaboration in the
identification, implementation and ex-post evaluation of applied and adaptive
research activities; and ic) the definition and imple-nentation of training
programs organized by reaeazch fcr extension staff (for details see chapter 4
para. 4.9 through para. 4.12)
3.28        Research Planning ad Programmi         The Project would assist ISRA
through the provizion of short-term technical assistance and short training
courses led by ISNAR, to strengthen their planning and programming of research.
This training would be made available to ISRA management including Departmental
heads and also to senior research staff working in the regional research
stations. The training would be centered on the setting of research priorities;
distribution of research between on-station applied and on-farm adaptive
experimentation;  and,  allocation  of  human  and  financial  resources.    IDA
assistance would complement that already being provided by USAID, making it
possible to extend the program beyond national planning and programming to the
regional level.
3.29        Research Support Services (Annex 8).  The wide range of services
supporting the research activities of ISRA include veterinary laboratory
services; soil, plant and leaf analysis; microbiology laboratory services; bio-
technology; agro-climatology services; information and documentation services;
basic seed for selected crop varieties and fruit tree production; applied
economics (food, marketing and livestock); and, data processing and statistics.
At present, many of these services are revenue-earning.  During the proposed
project, IDA would assist ISRA with the establishment of a commercial production
company to manage these revenue-eerning sections. The proposed project would
also provide financial support for the veterinary laborntory services, for agro-
climatology, for evaluation of forest genetic resources and establishment of seed
production, for applied economics and for the central soil/plant laboratory at
Bambey Central Research Station; and, would continue to support basic seed
production of improved crop varieties until this became self-financing.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ISRA prepare by January 1,1991 for
IDA's review and approval a proposal and action plan to be implemented starting
January 1, 1992 for establishment of an independent commercial production company
to manage its revenue earning activities.



- 23 -
3.30        Tho information and documentation service (UNIVAL) is responsible
for tho publication, in appropriate formats and languagoe for different
audiences, of the results and recommendations of research.  It also provides
library services to ISRA research staff. The proposed project would provide
financial support for extension of UNIVAL's facilities to better s*rvice the
different audiences and regions. This would include the purchase of computers
with publishing software, transport and funds for printing.
3.31        Research Fund.  An unallocated Research Fund of $1.0 million would
be provided under the proposed project to enable priority research activities,
not currently foreseen under the PQ, to be financed. This could be a new program
(perhaps investigating the potential for a newly introduced crop in different
agro-ecological areas) or complementary to an existing research program (e.g.
a component of soil and water research in the Casamance that might require
special equipment etc.).  The availability of such an unallocated fund would
enable urgent research to be undertaken expeditiously and could be used to expand
the work of active and effective research teams.  The relevant departmental
director and apprcpriate research officers, would be responsible for preparing
the sub-project request for presentation to ISRA's Scientific and Technical
Committee, before onward transmission to IDA for review and approval.
3.32        Trairina and '"echnical Assistance.  ISRA is being assisted by ISNAR
over an: 18-month period to: (i) formulate well conceived and realistic policies
and operat_onal procedures in the areas of recruitment,  staff development,
performance appraisal, grade and reward structures and personnel utilization,
and (ii) help ISRA management implement these new policies and procedures in
an effective and expeditious manner.  The ISNAR study is expected to provide
guidelines for ISRA's human resource development and training needs. The Credit
would finance training in Senegal. Overseas training would be financed by the
bi-lateral donors (USAiD, FL.ancc). Technical assistance in the field of research
is and will be provided and financed by the bi-lateral donors and French and
international research institutes traditionally assisting ISRA. Technical
Assistance to ISRA's administration and financial management (see para. 3.16
above) would be financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
G.    Anticipated Research Results durina the Proiect.
3.33        It can be expected, given progress with certain research programs
and the ability of the Senegalese scientists involved that significant technical
progress will he achieved during the fivo-year project period within the
following research programs:
(a)   Improved rice productivity within the 4 different rice-growing
systems in the Casamance; involving reclamation of mangrove rice
areas now being lost through calination and toxicities of iron and
aluminium, and improvement of appropriate rice varieties for the
different rice systsms;
(b)   Development of appropriate varieties and husbandry techniques for
cool season cropping under irrigation in the fleuve;



- 24 -
(C)   Development of improved farming systems for cotton and food crops
in Bastern Senegal involving optimism rotations and Lertilizer
practices;
(d)   Developo-nt of relatively low-cost systems for controlling erosion
in the cropplng areas of the Sine-Saloum involving principally the
selection of offective vegetative barrier plants (grasses and tr-es)I
and,
(-)   More effective livestock race improvement and livestock management
through the village-based livestock research program being
implemented from Kolda.
R.    Proiect Contn and Financina
3.34        Project Cost.  The total base project cost, defined as the cost of
the selected research programs financed by IDA and the Government and the costs
of components discussed in para. 3.16, has been estimated at CFAP 10.1 Billion
(US$ 32.5 Million). Base cost estimates reflect mid-1988 prices. Cost excludes
direct taxes and import duties since GOS has Indicated that these, although not
walved, would not be disbursed by ISPA but paid directly by Government. Physical
contingencies amounting to USS 0.6 million are estimated to be 10% on all capital
costs and their total amounts to 2% of base cost. Price contingencies amounting
to US$ 5.7 Million representing 18% of base cost and 15% of total cost are based
on forecasts of international inflation for foreign supplied goods, and on
estimated annual inflation in Senegal for local costs, and on an implementation
period of 5 years (see para. 3.45). They have been calculated at the following
annual percentage rates:
Year              Foreign Cost             Local Cost
1989-90               Z.3%                      5%
1991-96               4.1%                      5%



25 -
Zstimated Coeta and Financno Plan
Estimated Cost*      a/                     Local       Forsion       Total
----------USS million---------
Civil works                                  0.80           1.09       1.89
Equipment                                    0.30           2.68       2.98
Vehicles                                     0.12           1.08       1.20
operating Cost Research                     14.90           2.53      17.43
Operating Coat Administration                6.21           0.88       7.09
Consultants, Audit, Training                 0.76          0.17        0.93
Reserve Research Fund                        0.10           0.90       1.00
Base Cost                             23.19           9.33       32.52
Physical Contingencies                       0.12          0.49        0.61
Price Contingencies                          4.31           1.43       5.74
Total Pro4ect Cost                     27.62         11.25       38.87
a! Exclusive of taxes and duties.
3.35         Prolect Financing.  The credit would finance selected investments
including new headquarters for ISRA in Dakar, vehicles and equipment, part of
operating costs of priority research programs, part of the newly identified
natural research programs, a Research Reserve Fund, Technical Assistance to
ISRA's administration, local training, assisnance to Research Planning and
Programm.ng and travel expenses and per diem for four members of the Scientific
and Technical Committee.   The Government would finance salaries of ISRA's
permanent staff and recurrent expenses of ISRA's administration and ISRA's
research centers and research stations. The financing plan is summarized below:
Financing Plan                               Local       Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Governmeat                                   19.5            0.9       20.4
IDA                                           8.1          10.4        18.5
Total                                     27.6          11.3        38.9



-26 -
3.36         Tho financing of ISRA's rosearch programs will be subject to the
following conditions.  (i) Any incroase in roesar_h and administrative staff
would havo to be justified by the Manpower Devolopment study (presently under
preparation) and funding of any new position would havo to be provided by the
Governrent budget; (ii) ISRA would not incroase the number of its agreed-upon
rosearch programs included in tho Five-Year Rosearch Plan unl-e completo
financing of such an additional program is assured, execution of such program
does not requiro additional staff and such program in deemed to bo of high
priority. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.37    Revolvini  Fund for ISRA    In  view  of  ISRA's  limited  capacity  t-
prefinance its operating expenditures to be re-imbursed under the IDA credit a
revolving fund will be established immediately after credit effectiveness. The
amount of the initial fund will be US$ 1.0 million equivalent, representing
about 50% of ISRA's first project year's expenses eligible for IDA reimbursement.
IDA will replenish the fund upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred
expenditure and evidence that such expenditures were eligible for financing out
of the revolving fund.
I. Procuremnt
3.38         Procurement arrangements are summarized in the Procurement Method
and Disbursements Table (Annex 10).
3.39         Cavil works to be financed for approximately US$ 2.3 Million
equivalent would be procured on the basis competitive bidding advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA which would include advertising
in local papers, public bid opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, award to
the lowest evaluated bidder and foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participating. The dispersion over the country of civil works funded under the
Project and the presence of well-equipped and competitive local contractors make
it unlikely that the works would attract foreign contractors not already
established in Senegal.
3.40         Goods.   Goods estimated to cost US$ 100.000 or more would be
procured under ICE procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Inputs and
equipment to be financed under ICB would be grouped to the extent possible in
packages of at least US$ 100,000 equivalent. Packages of less than US$ 100,000
totalling US$ 2.7 M would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 aggregating to USS
600,000 may be procured on the basis of price quotations of at least three
suppliers.
3.41         Two Consultants with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA would be recruited following IDA procedures.
3.42         Contract Review. Bidding documents for contracts estimated to cost
US$  100,000 or more would be subject to review prior to tendering  and
recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to IDA for comments prior
to award.



- 27 -
J. D&ebursemeta
3.43         The IDA credit would be disbursed over 5 years an follows.
Disbursoments of IDA Credit
Amount of        Zstimated
Cateaorv                               USS.oo0  SDR.000      Percentaoe
1    Civil Works                              2,100    1,600           100
2    Equipment                                3,170    2,300           100
3    Vehicles                                 1,300    1,000           100
4    Consulting Services, Audit, Training       830       645          100
5    Research Program Operating Costs         7,350    5,585           100
(excluding salaries)
6    Research Reserve Fund                    1,000       800          100
7    Refunding of PPF Advance                   800       600
8    Unal located                             1,950    1,470
18,500   14,000
3.44         Disbursements for occasional labor and recurrent operating costs
under (e) above, local training and all contracts valued at less than US$ 20,000
would be made against statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Director
of ISRA and ISRA's management controller.   Relevant documentation would be
retained by ISRA and would be available for inspection by IDA and by the
auditors. Disbursement under all other categories would be made after receipt
of full documentation.
3.45         The Project will contribute to the financing of ISRA's PQ and the
Schedule of estimated disbursements (Annex 11) is therefore based on the 5-year
period (and not on a disbursement profile).  The amounts of the credit not
disbursed or committed by the credit closing date would be cancelled.
R. Rnvironmental Impact
3.46         The  agro-ecological  environment  of  Senegal  is  comparatively
unfavorable and in most regions crops, livestock and trees are subject to stress.
Unreliable rainfall distribution and the increasing frequency of drough' .s is
adding to the difficulties of tho agricultural sector. In addition, expanding
human and animal populations are steadily increasing the pressures on the fragile
natural resources. Financial pressures on the agricultural sector demand the
development of low input restorative farming systems with optimization of
productivity at relatively low levels of purchased inputs.
3.47         Tha proposed project would enable ISRA to intensify its research
on the developAent of integrated farming systems (crops, livestock and forestry)



- 28 -
and so improve Senegal's potential for sustainable production and productivity
in its unfavorable environment. A special natural resources research program
would be implemented under the project (para. 3.23 - 3.24 and Annex 7). Farming
systems programs would be strengthened in the most important agricultural zones;
varieties would continue to be developed that were resistant to pests and
diseases and tolerant to environmental stresses such as drought, salinity and
iron toxicity. Varieties and plant associations that would be able to exploit
the limited soil resources through better root systems or through association
with mycorrhiza or nitrogen-fixing legumes would be developed. The nutritive
value of crop residues and recycling of animal wastes would be exploitad through
the farming systems research program.
3.48         Much potential rice land in the Basse Casamance has had to be
abandoned because of increasing soil salinity, acidity and iron and aluminum
toxicity.   The proposed program would assist with reclamation of this land
through intensification of the regional water and soil management researcl.
program. Early progress has been encouraging; water control with barrages has
limited the aevelopment of salinity in irrigated rice parcels and the use of
compost and phospho-gyp has reduced iron and aluminum toxicities.   Regular
chemical spraying now controls cotton pests; support would be provided under thf
project  for extension of the currently small  program on  integrated pest
management (IPM) and for initiation of a program on pest scouting in cotton.
3.49         it  is  thus  articipated  that  the  proposed  project  would  be
environmentally positive, contributing to the restoration of soil cover and
fertility, arresting further decline of natural resources and minimizing the use
of toxic agricultural chemicals.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.1          The overall  responsibility  for natural  resources reaearch  is
entrusted to an inter-ministerial committee (CIM), which is advised by a national
committee of agricultural research (CNRA) consisting of representatives of five
ministries (Planning, Higher Education, Rural Development, Livestock and Water
& Forestry).   The CIM has delegated the direction of national agricultural
research (ISRA) to the Ministry of Rura' Development (MDR), to whom the Director-
General of ISRA is responsible. A Consultative Group representing donors (GCBF)
meets once a year and provides scientific and financial advice to government and
ISRA (Chart C-1).
4.2          A Scientific and Technical Committee composed of prominent national
and international scientists meets also once a year to review research results,
to discuss research priorities and to provide scientific advice to ISRA's Board
of Directors and to ISRA's management. In the past IDA provided financing for
travel expenses and per diem for four members of the committee.   Under the
Project the composition of the Committee would be reviewed in order to ensure
that its members are not only fully qualified but that they also are able and
willing to perform their advisory task and to participate in the yearly meetings.
The Project would continue to finance the travel expenses and per diem of four
selected members of the committee and, in addition, would encourage them to pay



- 29 -
visits to the research teams in the fi-ld and to work with them in their
specialities for short periods.
4.3          The Director-General would be responsible to the Board of Directors
for the orientation of the management of the Institute, including policy
administration and finance.   The Ca would in turn be advised on the major
scientific orientation of ISRA, as well as on the development of the institution
and on external scientific linkages by the Scientific Committee. The Director
General would supervise (i) the Deputy Director General; to whom he would
delegate the direction of the sctoral scientific research programs;
(ii) the Secretary General7 (iii) The Management controllort and (iv) the ACP.
He would also have scientific responsibility for the long-term Natural Resources
Management Research Program. Under the project, he would delegate the overall
direction of the sectoral scientific research programs to the Deputy Director-
General.
4.4          The Deputy-Director-General would be responsible for the management
of two central units: (a) Programming, Training and Monitoring & Evaluation, and
(b) Information and Documentation Service (publications and library service).
He would also be responvIble for the overall direction of the scientific research
program, although he would delegate detailed management to five departmental
heads; (a) Farming Systems Research and Agricultural Economics, (b) Crop
Production, (c) Animal Health and Production, (d) Oceanographic (fisheries), and
(e) Forestry.
4.5          The crop research centers at Bambey and Kaolack (groundnut basin),
St. Louis (Fleuve), Djibelor (Basse Casamance) and Tambacounda (Eastern Senegal)
together with the Horticultural Research Center (Niayes) would be managed by
Center Chiefs under the joint direction of the Directors of Crop Production and
Farming Systems. The national veterinary laboratory and the livestock research
centers at Dahra (Sylvo-Pastoral Zone) and Kolda (Casamance) would be managed
by Center Chiefs under the direction of the Director of Animal Production. The
directors of Fisheries and Forestry would be responsible for management of their
scientific research programs, both in the laboratory and in the field (or
ocean/rivers).   The Director of Forestry Research would also have direct
responsibility for the Natural Resources Management Research Program. In his
management of this program he would seek the collaboration of the Department of
Soil Conservation and Reforestation in the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
4.6          Each sub-sectoral program (for the different commodities) would be
implemented by a team of research specialists coordinated by an experienced
scientist.   The regional Systems Research programs would  be  staffed  by
appropriate specialists under the coordination of one of the regional systems
scientists. A regional coordinator (a senior scientist from the Systems research
team) would be responsible for the direction of the regional adaptive research
program and for liaison with both the development agencies and the farming
community.  Scientists from both the thematic and the systems research teams
would work within the adaptive research program.
4.7          ISRA would review its organization and its research programs each
year and would submit to the Association by the end of October of each year a
detailed work plan, budget and financing plan for the next fiscal year. Approval



- 30 -
by IDA of the three documents would be a condition of disbursements for research
program operating costs for the following year.
4.8          Research Proarammlna and Coordination. Each commodity coordinator
would be responsible for assembling his annual commodity program based on work
programs submitted by the commodity specialists. These would be reviewed by the
relevant Directors and modified to rvtch the human and financial resources
vailable. The Directors would then p.asent their annual research programs, past
results and proqram budget to the National Technical Coumittae. The Center Chief
would be responstble for the administration of the regional research center and
for coordination of t'io regional work program.
3. Research - Extenaion Linkaae
4.9          Technical Cotmmlttees. Research programs (plans and results) would
be discussed and reviewed by a national Technical Committee (para. 3.27) during
an annual workshop chaired by the head of national extension services within the
Ministry of Rural Development. The workshop would be attended by representatives
of research, extension and the development agencies. At the regional level, a
technical committee (RTC) would be established for each development agency
concerned with aqricultural extension and would meet twice a year. Membership
of the RTC would include extension, research and representatives of the farming
community and the committees would: (a) review results of applied and adaptive
research programs; (b) review the adoption rates of technical recommendations
in the previous season; (c) agree on the next year's adaptive research program
to be carried out by research; and (d) prepare and agree on the contractual
arrangements defining respective operational and financial responsibilities of
ISRA and the extension service. Regular field days for extension staff and for
farmers would be held at the research stations and PAPEMs. The closer inclusion
of extension staff and farmers in the implementation of the research program
would assist with its reorientation to priority field problems.
4.10         Applied and Adaptive Research Programs.   ISRA's commodity and
systems teams would collaborate with the research and development units (R & D)
of the extension agencies to jointly carry out the adaptive research program
proposed under the project.   Such R & D units exist already withIn SAED,
SODEFITEX and SODAGRI and will be proposed for the other extension agencies under
the proposed extension project.
4.11         Adaptive research programs (farm trials) would be designed to test
and, if necessary, adapt technical recommendations derived frcm applied research
for different farm situations: (a) various cropping sequences; (b) level of
farmers, skills; and (c) farmers' resources and risk situation.  Farm trials
would be simple.  They would be planned by research and extension together;
executed by farmers on their fields under the supervision of the extension
agencies' specialized staff with technical support from regional research staff;
they would initially be analyzed by research and then jointly evaluated by
research and extension. The extension agencies would bear the cost of purchased
inputs for the trials and the farmers would undertake the work involved.
4.12         Operational and Financial Responsibility.   ISRA would develop
medium-term "program contracts" with each extension agency for the adaptive



- 31 -
research program under the project.  These contracts would specify, in broad
terms (a) the agreed-upon themes for farm trials; (b) the rospective operational
and fitkancial responsibilities of the two parties; and, (c) the program's review
and planning arrangements.  Before each agricultural season, the various TCB
would review the progress achieved, agree on the detailed annual program for the
forthcoming season and on the means and financial resources necessary to carry
out the proposed programs. Annual programs and budgets, along with respective
responsibilities, would be detailed in an annual contract between the two
parties. These contracts would be submitted to the person in charge of national
extension for approval each year before March 31. Investment expenditures would
be financed through the agencies annual investment budgets. The operating costs
for the implementation of the project's agreed annual adaptive research programs
(both for ISRA and extension agencies) would be entirely financed (through a
negotiated annual contract) from the extension agencies' annual operating
budgets.
4.13         During negotiations assurances were obtained from the borrower that
the national and regional research technical committees discussed above would
be set-up by April 30, 1990.
C. Financial Control. Audit and Reportina
4.14         Proper budgeting and accounting procedures have been set up during
the First Project.  Accounting is fully computerized and internal procedures
set up under the first Project would be refined. Internal audit and control will
be strengthened. ISRA's management will contzal and monitor the execution of
its research program by research station and by source of financing. Budgetary
control introduced under the first Project will be continued.   The Internal
Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit created under the first Project would be
strengthened by a chief controller (contrOleur de gestion) acceptable to IDA.
He would work under the direction of the Managing Director and would be
responsible inter alia for the implementation of the cost accounting system, for
budgetary control, for supervision of procurement, for supervision of
disbursement requests and for supervision of the implementation of the internal
procedures.  A highly qualified financial analyst/accountant would assist the
Secretary General in all matters concerning ISRA's accounts and accounting
procedures and financial management and would assist the ACP (Agent comptable
particulier) in the control of accounts prepared by the research centers. He
would be directly responsible for all ISRA's accounts other than general accounts
prepared by the ACP.   Employment of the management controller and of the
Financial Analyst/accountant for an initial period of one year would be
conditions of effectiveness of the Credit.  The accounts will continue to be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association ard the report of
the auditors of such scope as IDA may reasonably request would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the end of ISRA's fiscal year. The report will inter
alia include a separate opinion concerning the reliability of SOE submitted as
justification for disbursements under the credit.  Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
4.15         The Director of ISRA would be responsible for issuing semi-annual
progress reports showing budgeted and actual expenditure per research program
and giving details of on-going research programs and of results achieved, In



- 32 -
addition, ISRA would prepare and furnish to IDA not later than six months after
project completion a Project Completion Report with format and content acceptable
to the Association. Assurancoe to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
V.  an   ITS Aim RISKS
A. Main Benefits
5.1          The first project has considerably strengthened the infrastructural
and human resources available for agricultural research. The research program
has been broadened to include both specialized thematic research and
multidisciplinary production systems research. The latter teams have already
begun to produce useful background data on the major ferming systems within the
three regions in which they have been active, and have undertaken some on-farm
testing. The commodity research staff have received specialist training and have
produced useful results on specialist topics (para. 2.22 and Annex 2 Table _).
However, the research plan has lacked a clear focus on the priority problems of
the farming sector and research programs have been conceived as discrete
accivities.  Insufficient research has been carried out on the long-term needs
of the environment, and steady degradation of natural resources has continued.
5.2          The developments undertaken during the first project have provided
a good base for the development and implerc-tation of problem oriented and
multidisciplinary research programs.   These can be expected to have a high
return.  The closer integration of research on crops, livestock and forestry
-ould contribute to the development of sustainable farming systems that would
assist with the restoration and conservation of soil fertility and so with crop
productivity.    An  increased  e,nphasis  on  adaptive  research  (including
experimentation in farmers' gardens and research on traditional pastoral
systems), with the extension service and the farming community participating in
the research process, would assist with the adaptation of technical advances made
during the first project to the needs of the farming community. This would be
further strengthened through the close coordination of this project with that
proposed for agricultural extension. Both the long-term needs of the environment
and the most immediate technical problems of farmers would thus receive high
priority and compartmentalized scientific research would be diminished.
B. Proiect Risks
5.3          The focus and productivity of research would depend upon: (i) the
ability of ISRA's management to lead and direct the program towards the priority
oblectives detailed in their PQ; (ii) the development of a motivational career
stream for ISRA's scientists and technical support staff that would encourage
them to remain with ISRA and gain experience while developing useful programs
within their individual fields, (iii) the availability of sufficient operating
finance to enable the research teams to carry out vigorous programs, and (iv)
the development of a satisfactory service l.nkage between research and extension
involving a fuller participation of the extension service and the farming
community in the research process.



- 33 -
5.4          A number of factors may affect the success of the project and theme
could include: (i) program segmentation given the probable multiplicity of
cofinanle-rr of research leading to divarsion of the program away from the
principal objectives; (ii) the possibility that ISRA management will be slow 'n
achieving the shift in emphasis from the present thematic research to
miltidieciplinary problem-oriented research tackling priority problems; and (iii)
the possibility that research may deviate from the problem-orientation proposed,
perhaps because of ineffective feed-back from the production systems research
teams and from the extension services.
5.5          The major general risk is, as was the case for the first project,
that the need to solve immediate specific problems will prevent management from
concentrating sufficient supervision and resources to the more conceptual
necessity of a reorientation of the research program. But, the creater part of
capital investment in the research network and training of research staff has
been completed during the first project; it is therefore anticipated that the
additional experience of management and the priority being given in the second
project to the technical aspects of research would enable this reorientation to
be achieved.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RZCOIORNDATION
6.1          Assurancei3 obtained at negotiations:
(a) ISRA would prepare by January 1, 1991 for review and approvai by
IDA a proposal and an action plan to be implemented starting
January 1,1992 for the establishment of an independent commercial
production company to manage its revenue earning activities (para.
3.29);
(b) Any increase in research and administrative staff would have to be
justified by the Manpower Development study (presently under
preparation) and funding of any new position would have to be
provided by the government budget; and ISRA would not increase the
number of its agreed upon research programs included in the Five-
Year Research Program unless complete financing of such an
additional program is assured, execution of such program does not
require additional staff and such program is deemed to be of high
priority (para. 3.36);
(c) the national and regional research technical committees would be
set-up not later than April 30, 1990,
(d) ISRA's accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and their report which would include a separate opinion on
the  reliability  of  SOEs  submitted  as  justification   for
disbursements will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of ISRA's fiscal year (para. 4.14);
(e) The Director of ISRA will issue semi-annually progress reports in
scope and content acceptable to the Association (para. 4.15);



- 34 -
(f)  ISRA will prepare and submit to the Aesociation not later than six
months after proj et completion a Proe ct Completion Report in
scope and content acceptable to the Association (para. 4.15).
6.2          Condition of  f tfetivneas
(a) The signature and promulgation by Government of ISRA's "Decret
Organique" (p ra. 2.25);
(b) ISRA will employ a highly qualified and experienced Secretary
General acceptable to the Association (para. 2.27);
(c) ISRA will employ a management controller (controleur do gostion)
and financial analystvaccountant acceptable to the Association for
an initial period of one year (para. 4.14).
6.3          Conditions of Disbursements
ISRA will review its organization and its research programs each year
and will submit to the Association by the end of October of each year a detailed
work plan, budget and finuncing plan for the next fiscal year. Approval by IDA
of the three documents will be condition of disbursement for research program
operating costs for the following year (para. 2.24 and para. 4.7).
6.4          With the above assurances and conditions the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.0 Million (USS 18.5 Million equivalent).



- 35 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
TUE RIPURLIC OF SgnrAL
SECOIND AGRICULTURAL IRSEAC PROJZCT
Plan QuluagaMl (1989 - 1993)
Research Proara. Costs (and 1988 Drices)
(FCFA 000)
X of        X of
Regional   National
Reglon                      Research Program                      Total Cost        Total       Total
Sud-Ou- t                  Natural R-e. Management                      462,684         34
Rice and Divereiflcation                    426,661         82
Faroing Systems A Mchanisation             246,858         18
Fisheries                                   217,167         16
Regional Total                                                1,861,888                     7
Fl-euv                     Water Management A F-rtilisation             29r,793         16
Irrigated Maize                             381,789         20
Market gardening A Diverslfication          252,458         15
Farming Systems _                             2,629         8J
Fisheries                                   144,294          9
Forestry                                    188,336          a
Regional Total                                                1,681,240                     8
Coast                      Artisanal Fisheries                          886,068         24
Environment                                 896,806         24
Industrial Fisheries                        764,171         47
Economic and Institutional                  9f,577           5
Regional total                            1,621,111                    8
Nlayss                     Horticulture                                 92',26e         71
Livestock                                   824,411         26
Agrotorestry                                 47,989          4
Regional Total                                                1,299,688                     7
N + C Groundnut Basin      Millet # broed control                       341,620         26
Groundnuts                                  261,685         16
C,ospes                                     261,787         19
Resource Management                         398,243         29
Post-harvest Technology                     1U4,775          8
Regional Total                                                1,329,919                     7
Eastorn Senegal            FarlOng Systes * Livostock                   644,686         66
Cotton + Diversification                    359,779         83
Agriforestry                                 74,161          7
Regional Total                                                1,978,615                     6
Sylvo-Pastoral             Farming Systems + Livestock                  866,972        16N
Regional Total                                                 380,972                      2
S. Groundnut Basis         Maize                                        186,257         14
Sorghum                                     187,495         14
Groundnuts                                  210,766         21



- 36 -                                     Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
storag                                      ,  
Forming Systems                           317,139         2
Agotereetry                               123,71         12
Regional Total                                               909,198                   5
Natlona!                  Antsat Patho!ogy                          551,36          12
Sclentific Co_mting                       37,613          7
UNIVAL                                    3m,117          7
Central Laboratory                        209,563         6
Tolodetectien                             165,9.9         4
Agroc ietology                            119,440         Z
Economy and Industrial Environment        426,619         9
8 l otehno l ogy                          528,616        12
Animal Nutrition                          316,616         7
Forostry Rosource-                        176,619         4
See  Production Vegetabloe                122,877         3
Siee  Production Crops                    240,989         6
Vaccine Production                        949,013        21
Notlonal Rogional Total                                         4,582,123                  23
Total Direct Coota                                           14,234,675                  72
Indiroct Costs
Administration                          8,388,455
R-oearch Stations                       2,083,801
Total Indirect Costa                                          6,417,268                  28
Plan Quinquennal          Total Costs                            19,651,931
Tontative Financina Plan of the Plan Quinpuennal
CFAF billions
Original Cost of the Plan Quinquonnol                                           19.65
Planned Reduction of Salary Costa                                                1.560
Actual Cost (ond 1988 prices)                                                   18.15
Financing                 Cov-rn_ent of Sonogal                                  7.26
ISRA a own resourcos                                   1.5S
Finnnco                                                2.16
USAID                                                  O.80
Other                                                  1.80
Contribution of Proposod IDA Credit                    6.64
17.99
To be scured                                           6.16
TOTAL                                                 18.15
pl an/SAR2



- 37 -                             Annex 2
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PESEARCH PROJECT
Research Programs - Proposed for IDA Financing
----------------------------------------------
Region         Research Program                                 Code  Total Cost   IDA
(FCFA millions)
Sud-Ouest      Nat. Res. Man. & Rehab. Ecosystems                11       463       218
Rice & Diversification crops                     12        426      167
Farming Systems                                  14        246       55
Fleuve         Agroforestry & Management of Soil & Water         27       136        70
Niayes         Agroforestry, Horticulture & Livestock         41&42&43  1,300       143
NCBA           Millet                                            51       342       142
Agroforestry & Farming Systems                  55 & 54    380      101
CSBA           Rainfed Maize                                     71       136        64
Sorghum                                          72        137       68
Grain Storage                                     74        69       35
Farming Systems Research                         75        317      152
Agroforestry                                      76       129       48
Groundnuts                                       73        211       69
Oriental       Farming Systems and Livestock                     61       645       199
Cotton & Diversification Crops                   62        360       57
Agroforestry                                      63        74       57
Sylvo-Pastoral Systems & Forestry & Livestock                    Bl       361       194
Zone
REGIONAL PROGRAMS - TOTAL                         5,732    1,839
National       Veterinary pathology                              91       551        95
UNIVAL                                          911        336      144
Central laboratories, Bambey                    912        290      156
Agroclimatology                                   92       119       35
Applied Economics                                 93       428      154
Biotechnology                                    94        528      111
Feeding of Livestock                             95        317       76
Eval. Genetic Resources Forestry & Seed Prodn   96         177       96
Basic Seed Production                            98        241       51
Vaccine Production                                99       949      115
NATIONAL PROGRAMS - TOTAL                          3,936    1,033
Proposed Natural Resources Management                      342      2i5
Research Program
Reserve Research Fund                                               300
GRAND TOTAL - RESEARCH PROGRAM SUPPORT           10,010    3.447



SALIWE  CHIAACTISTICS OF AICLLTUIAL ZOI
1WIlV AM                                          ADWALL                    SOILS                               OmiT  AatICULTU*E &C36llDdrS                                     iAuA.   w            inji-
samagel    25.000 .q.ks.                        00 -00 _                3 dei-t.ot txee                 11ionfsd  -ro-m:orsk..o                   Di0o,e   to1s.po   (r.-.                  il     pr teo'..)
pi...      Im.. Valley limited ..I. area   Sisal. memam-                k..oy oly to light Send           o-d.o.S, n.ooblop                                 -for i- g."Sd. Pstflod _It drslad f*rs-_
Va1l. I       ft.r rivor flood:                Irropol.. distrib.       Is. *ior.l .*.r..Ittoist I1 I....I  s:rioe..o..  om..               ,frt   d _ .e  -fer diff*r-t Sil ,I       £ sd is.sl  andetim
llidIl  Valley 500I 000k.          Epo-. riole               Wlin* A osid in Dolt.          Li.eetso(oatly    *.t .).iok i_                     Soil _It water mw _ee
D.16.          250,000h            i, , of    ,oao..t      All-.iol                        Adoptioo- of ties d  I_s                       l      .ro.. t of formng  .et  m  (Il..            r,    .r.
i-rijoimm-:                       116r_d mind.                                             c4trair.ts:
middle Vol .l   17.800ka                                                                    m)bigh _jil  Slinity A scodity i. 0.I1
D0lt.          12.000k.                                                                     b)lso  io.0r.l ".toiet 1.1 thredsko.t
o)o..il  rof i-g.  1od still limited
d)olimtio  irobilit  a.nd "reliabilit
.).oil ,ooid.ilitg
Cu_meme-.  17,400 0.4k                         tl0 - 120W               756 f."r.o8iwe                  l.o Crop di..roifio.tian                            lwroe   So..l *,ods.ti.oi  with  od tlow  ftim.oiall
7r0.00 oo h r-bl.                  ll..i-hdoid SoeWics      211 m..lI f.rr.l lito           Stic. mt imo-tO0t  rr-,. W*:                        acep tabletto f-r mikold..
50.000. rie- all types             L-sr  t capped           Sail fertility ..di..           e) mor.-   _noo; b) rminefd ao s.l.od. lroa .owme. of ftI;;s ,;ir   _.  .lsoioi.0 Smitits if.
o) fl_elod oh.,. -a, ttl. high                    flooded  ,es  seed fd r r;r.ise *_d _is
Oth.. cdrea: fnoit  -er'rd.,  ort,. maize.
mosst Poteto.     ..d t.   1 1t, I . ..m,44.
mosk.t m.riodamog .d cca3e00
Yields r.l..  to di.*trib.A g.*titd of ri.
Fertilizer little eoffet. rt.. 5.5 I_t
LiOt-h         _ro    d   o.ri.d
Forestry, b      .t-r.l .4 pl..tod
Fisheries
Ind.fficieot basic food (cerool.) prodecld
Centrol    24,000 o.qk                         G00 - Soo"               Sand,. Ir_ cloy sod an          N4il lt a Gr- -n.  _et i e.-too 0046*mol 10.d... md                                    pr.d.oti;. oilkio  mt.st of   O0
Sm_         1,700.000. .rable                  100 day Ordains 0-00   La  0r  mn  ru iont               ocopyin. 96  of .abir aro;F00 11   seo.frod.   .d pr_ro  sde ro,rrt le, ce s.lasI
Oogp.rm...n.o                                                             ld-og coasdito,                Other oro..or.ol.dtonenD. ss of eflsooin eresio fAt _osdoPt ooriO
_0ir.                                                                                                    U."hLi.  : may 0d  relied                          tropism conteol _td forisg MWSt s  for evil orotbeei_
Capr-ti-ol  d*__.. oe.lotirn sid. is
*sparidecod i..  sou o  iapood 6_clo
InCr.oin. d"radet;in of n.tuersl room.e
Osol.ioni Yields
Ib.U        10..   04A0                        400 - 600         _       SodY. le  cloy end oi          Principal -op.: *ree,dnoom(50S wf  ,Oe) .o.    Selotiam of aoroetiee sd deal.evemit of Plo-t loohoodry to me-t
Contral                                        70 8o dOd. maJ emon   L1o setsr and                      SiIriIn- ilt (4bt of ars); aaba,.  ~91r_  A erm_      limtio m.d si I do_;1  d
Grado.1,                                                                hlding C.P.oity                 Livestock  0 *.Imsioies           swatte            Do,.lopet of fto -Jifg *oust.  to opisi -g era. I iceetoth ood
am'..                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-~resi-Og P5lsties P,5OOOO  o.0inqi land of  feelsood PreooWtiesmsilk Soil riSiiOiO
fells. Period-  Yiiiko    ields dso 5.             Ad.pobtiam of ted.sel.f foe omlOldorwe
ProdCtidm if*-% Constraints md decreooi.g
roinfall od Seil fertiliiy
EsotrA..     6.00 010                          Go 6o - 1200    _         .l. ti;ly foti  1 oi la        Principal dops: os           w .r AII (8I of sr.).  S-Iootiam ow appe-t  o -ri-ime .;_ doslopasot of Pano,
So    I g   8  cropo  (1980)                  wVrimhlo   ori-  Om.                                      o     le (U  iAloi.         ro     iot A rics)  hAndrJy  Ooo             Sio.  f_ r t. P rioeivol ero
£                                                                                                       ond cottOn (196 ti rot r_).oseosoJ_uo.    foofi   Soi I omogoot add doelsoont of froi-g owt_  so
Upper                                                  no  -ometabl. Psodtie                                                                                optimism enr  and li,emback so,at.
Camemand.                                                                                               Li-oo-tok imporeat - cattlookoop -.04.05
in ArlA - sotoasi-  oreaino;iA SOUfk - orw.
inL  -iCs inol.oniOl trection
E.too..io. notorsl for"t r-o-rc.                                                                                        0b
F-od-stioo conatr-i-d  y lee poul.tion
density and  ppropristo t-ooholegy (,
SJlVO       5s.000 sq                          200 - 60 0d0 ood,.   fort  . so. I                       0      n  nsotonk  I.cro-od 49-ed.tondi  of         D-lPoont of f.r.og systeso (lme r Od fore,ty)
Psoto,.l   E.t 1...... I.d                     .. 6rs tc.dI -l nn      E. ts..... .ro..   -tA          e,l no.. ff*cti  o_ I f-rt, . ty snd                tA.t Pr.tA.tOo. rtoSre5--         be" sd  pti..o, et-owbl
l      .t., tn... .., 1r.         . lo      -to .d a n..nt. -or-bl. f..t spulo     l.PI.toch prodoct.OA
..d lot of .-l h..lUh fAn,lotPt ds    .  r. 6.8rch Lo 1. - dos                       ap.ror.-t sot.-  of
Lo- Prd.-cton. h6gh CO..  .rt.l       sth lo.   r'.,sb.neosoot
soth  .od ..t-Lr., onf fdolt



LINKS WITH INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Institute         Link                                     Current Coopwrative Activities
established
WADA             1971        ISRA providee WARDA with *xperimental fields and laboratories
ISRA counterpart staff (agronou st,breeder,entomolog01t.wed scientist)
WARMDA provides two scientist. plus support staff
Participation In regional rice reserch network, exchange of varietal material
Training regularly provided to ISRA and other staff by WAMA tem
ISNAR            1963       Study of developmnt of human resources for ISRA
Advice to ISRA on scientific and financial mnagemont of reosrch
ICIPE and ILCA       1975        ISRA scientists participate In cooperative networks Inc.trypanotol-raone
ISRA contributes to details of scientific prograe
ISRA scientists trained (short courses) by ICIPE in Nairobi or by ILCA in Addis
ISRA participate and provide facilitios for training courseo In Dakar
IITA             -         Improveent of rootcrops (cassava and sweet potato)
Scelntific support for cowpes and moai- pregrammes
Short training courose given by IITA to ISRA scientific and technical staff
Exchange of documentation
ICRISAT           1960       Support for varietal Improvement A disease resist, of milletsorghum  and greUdadut
Training for technicians at Hyderabad
CIP              -         Technical support by CIP to COH with potato lsprovoemt
Training prograwes for seegales  staff In potato production
IBPOR             -         Financial support for conservation of genetic resources (cold room)
Training for ISRA staff In conservation methods                                                               '
Exchango of scientific Information and documentation
DFPI             19s       Technical assistance with food policy for West Africa
Training of ISRA scientista
ILUAD             -         Training of ISRA scientists by ILRAD
CIMMYT           1975        Exchange and teeting of w*ht and m_iz  varieties
Analytical and _ethodological support for broeding program e
Scientific support missions by CIMMYT staff to Senosl
IRRI            1961       Scientific support (soll chemistry) for submerged rice lande
Scientific support for varietal Improvement



iENI  C A     - L.    .rL &  t8   Reco.tw..,berews
I                I                        ~~~ ~~                                     ~      ~~~~~~~~~I krdrw.'*    ) I Lp -  I  I:
ZONE                     CULTURE                      Niveau F                 lve    FL                      luF2            -
IFor]le           Dose (kg/ha)IFomult    Dose (kg/ha)I Fale            ose (kg/ha) 
I                I                        I                            I~~_                 I                          .I
NORD                           Arachide                 10-10-8           150                            I                                 I
LOUGA                          11ii62  1                                   sI      II 
Nilbe                   114-7-             I
CENTRE-NORD                                                                          Phaosphatage de Food (1)  Phftlphata"e de f   (1)
1 - Thies                      I Arachide                16-20-10           150      18-18-27         150  1 8-15-27                200      1
I - Bambey                     I Niebe                   16-20-10            el8-18-27                     1                         s "
I - Diourbel                   I Nl                      114-7-7             of10-21-21               150  I 10-21-21               ISO      I
I                              I                         I                           luree            100      urde                 150      I
I                              I Sorgho                  114-7-7            150      I 10-21-71       150  1 6-18-27                250      1
1                              1                         1                           luree            100  I uree                   200
SUD et EST                     Arachide                16-20-11                                     150 --18-27                   200         0
I - Sine Saloum                 I Niebe                  16-20-10            of       18-18-27         so    8-18-27                200        1
- Seongal oriental              Cotonnier              I8-18-27            ISO       8-18-27        150    5-18-27                200
- CamamanceKuie                                                             50       urA.            50    sulfate 1E4              SO
|                |                         l~~~       ~       ~ ~~~~~ ~            ~ ~~~Kcl  -  K cl  SO  urfie       too
I   CasaI Nil                                            114-7-7              o        10-21-21       150  I 10-21-21                ISO     I
I  I                     I                            Iuree           100  1uric                    ISO      I
I                               I                                                       Sorgho  14-7-7  o  10-21-21  ISO    6-18-27  250
I                               I                        I                            lurie           100    urde                   200      1
I                               I mals                   18-18-27            100      18-18-27        200    8 6-18-27               300      1
I                               I ___-                   I                            lurre           200  1 urie                    300      1
Riz pluvial (2)        18-18-27            IOC      18-18-27        150    8-18-27                 250
I               I                                                       I             1urde           100    urtge                   200
R I  z pluvial (3)                                       18-18-27            100      18-18-27        200   1 6-18-27                250     I
I                               I                        I                            luree           150    urAe                    200      1
Riz subser                   -                         6-18-27        200    8-18-27                 S 
(riziere douce)                                      uree           100       -                     -
(1)   A la preuiere mise en culture, 400 kg/ha de tricalcique de Talba (culture pluviale), 1 000 kg/ha de tricalcique de Talba
(rizi&re submergee).
(2)   Senegal-Oriental - (3) : Casamance).



-41-
I i  332}  3                                                                         Annex  6
:.33!31 i  ,.s  ji3 ~ 3'  0  ] 3 -, 3                   Page lof 2
3~~~~d  ax                                                                  3
Isl& 3i ms 8                           3           '
141   0                                  6       O 3  W3 s 6  s
,'; | ik ti  1t 1   1 i   1                                 1 Iu
-    3  -----                   ------               ----I .- --s .-         ---
1'                            5%~s 3.
(0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4  6                                               01      *6 
6                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
3 t.    ..                           irr.. .                            .w.. .  PPs......... 
0  06 ,                                                        0. l,l | , o            *- @   : . 
333sss*  .  066    63g 63 3, s.   6i    ,3
0  0  0 -m    **                   -  j*
03  i. 0*.   J6.                                  s. *-           s 
06@     @- *       **0 *                         *E s.  
*  , s~.t *:~  -       .      .   26    6.        s               s    .
* 0                  ,
It ~ ~     ~    I
,I ,I , ,      s  -* 
I         j i                  Z 
owoy-    *          *     2            3. *    I$            
066  -   -         --      --  -  -  -   --   -  -   -  --   -   -  -
I<'  12                                                                       W 2  *    "  te'^"   e  "X2   2    rg 1    
,3 1  I                a                a .
I ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     I-
-3 ,3     -3  -2  -  -*                      ---------------- -   -  -  -i --s  -- -- -^   ,3
, , ., @ , .*  *              5       .        62.._l
.    ,    , .   .   .   .   .   b* .s.  .J      .!                       ..
,  ,   *  *.   .    :.  2 -        :    60        .    .    .        -.s
.~~~                     U::  .    .)s  :'   3.5     :j *:    *    :      o  -
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                    3   j,3    .  asi 30tw
. ~     ~       ~        * .~             .1.j                ~        e
la .                                        -             US
31~~~-6
06 .         :   .!        -1-    3..
,       iUo               *     ..                      ..         .....   . 



. ..~~~~~4                          ............. .... .2-
: , :..-
111sf                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Amnex 6
i~j 11    . l'l I;  "    'i  u                        l'Page 2 of 2
j I          ;
I t       ,
GOI
,.,  , _,          xI              4,n@                  H 
'1!  hs ;D  hit  F2s' 
V'2,_                       |: j il l                                         
.*1 iiq                         1]              1         1'
|      '~                                  ;;'!1is:-: w
IUb i            *l!   I!S                    w   
I|  3:   1 ti    aS_        5-             o*_           _
|~   | | ea        93 Ia t    |l   lS    j   i    415     OW 
,   1,S       ;          j 6      
I::1                        g                            ft
_i_.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
-     ---------------------
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~42
- - - - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - - - -  - - -  - -  - -
------------                      -- ---



- 43 -                             Annex 7
Page I of 3
TME REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SBCOND AGUCULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Natural Resources HMnasmenst Research Proaram
Background
1.        The agro-ecological environment of Senegal is generally
unfavourable, and its further gradual deterioration is steadily increasing
thA pressures on the agricultural sector. Over the past ten years, there
has been a significant reduction in annual rainfall and its increasing
unreliability. The considerable water resources available for irrigation
are effectively restricted to the Fleuve (rnorth) and Casamance (south)
regions but their full utilisation is limited by agro-pedological and
socio-economic constraints. The primary agricultural activity remains low-
input rainfed farming and extensive livestock husbandry. Unfortunately,
these two production systems are only rarely integrated and animal traction
is only common in certain zones. The increasing demographic pressure, the
fragility and diminishing organic matter content of the soils and the
uncertainty of the climate combine to pose a real threat to the long-term
viabili-y of the existing production systems. The sustainability of
agricultural productivity is also threatened by the shortening growing
seasons and by the current lack of economic viabUlity of mineral
fertilisation for most crops. The substantial natural phosphate deposits
in Senegal are hardly exploited yet.
2.        Various areas on some of the research stations, which have been
intensively cropped over many years, are also now showing extreme soil
exhaustion and, on some stations, erosion has also become a problem. In
the Casamance, regular utilised irr.gated rice parcels on the research
station are showing increasing soil acidity and salinity together with
toxicity of aluminum and iron. At Sinthiou Maleme research station, in
Eastern Senegal, the best cotton yields are now lower than the highest
smallholder yields and an area of the station is no longer used because of
soil exhaustion. These areas provide an advance warning of the widesp:ead
soil exhaustion and erosion which will occur in the rural areas if there is
no improvement in mdnagement of production systems. Integrated land use
and the exploration of the full synergistic potential of trees, livefstock
and crops for farm production and restoration of soil fertility, would
therefore be researched and appropriate production systems would be
developed. This programme would require a long-term commitment to its
financing.
Obiective
3.        To develop farming systems for the major agro-ecological zones
that would restore and sustain soil fertility, control erosion and optimise
farm output by making the optimum use of trees, livestock and crops.



- 44 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
Location
4.        Research sites would be selected on both the research stations
and on village farming areas, in each of the northern, central and southern
zones of Senegal. The proposed research stations or PAPEMs concerned would
be:
North          Ndiol
Fanaye
Matam
Central        Dahra
Bambey
Nioro du Rip
South          Sinthiou Maleme
Kolda
Djibelor
Villages in several degreded farming areas would also be identified to
provide sites for field testing of potential systems.
Research Team
5.        The program wculd be und'r the direction of the Director of
Forestry working in close liaison with the Department of Soil Conservation
and Reafforestation of the Ministry of Environmental Protection.   The
programme would be designed and managed by a group of four senior
senegalese scientists representing the following disciplines:
(i)     Crop production;
(ii)    Livestock production;
(iii)   Forestry;
(iv)    Agro-pedology.
These would be assisted, as necessary and possibly part-time, by other
specialists.
Zonal programmes would be developed as follows:
(a)     Definition of the problem;
(b)     Consideration of the problem in its local context
(farming systems, cultural practices, soil type,
production levels, etc.);
(c)     Review of relevant literature including potential
solutions;
(d)     Analysis of the soil (texture, mineral content, etc.),
review of past cropping history (crops, livestock,
trees and their output) and present land-use and/or
vegetative cover;



~ 45 -                     Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
(e)     Design of associations and systems for testing;
(f)     Implsmentation of tests;
(g)     Evaluation of results over long time-frame in terms of
soil analysis, productivity, economics and their
potential for adoption.
6.           The field progra_e would be supervised by technicians
outposted on the various sites concerned. Techniciens ordinaires (9) would
be outposted on each of the research stations to supervise field work and
would be assisted by two ezecutants qualifiEs (18) at each site.
Techniciens Superieurs (3) would be responsible for the supervision of each
of the three zonal prograes (3 sites each) and would be located at
appropriate research centres (Saint Louis, Bambey and Kolda).
Cost estimates
7.           Five-year estimated costs (in.luding physical and Price
contingencies):
USS (ooo) equivalent
GOS 1/                 IDA
4 Chercheurs                                          (30.0)               -
3  Techniciens superieurs                                                  123.5
9  Techniciens ordinaires                                                  240.8
18 Ez4cutants qualifies                                                    333.2
Main d'oeuvre temporaire                                                 82.3
2  Break 7CV                                                                27.0
3 Motos 250ccs                                                              12.4
MatEriel bureau                                                           3.2
Fonctionnement motos                                                        43.6
Fonctionnement breaks                                                       83.0
Frais d*placements                                                          41.2
Fonctionnement (9 sites)                                                    62.3
(matEriel vEgEtal, semences, clOtures, etc.)
Total                                             (30.0)            1052.5
1/   The four Researchers are expected to be transferred from other ISRA
departments and no additional cost is envisaged.
anne7. sar



- 46 -                               Annex 8
TOR RIPUBLIC OF SENGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SuuDort Services
Veterinary laboratory services: diagnosis of livestock pathological
problems (including bacterial and viral diseases) and production of
vaccines.
Soil, Plant and leaf analysis laboratories: National laboratory at Bambey
for both analysis of farmers' soil and plant samples and for analysis of
trial plot soil and plant samples.
Microbiology laboratory: development and production of effective rhizobial
cultures for the different leguminous crops, pastures and trees being grown
in Senegal and the region.
Bio-technolocy: Development of techniques and production for the rapid
multiplication of clean disease-free plant material.
Agro-climatoloay services: Maintenance of national network of rainfall
recording stations and research into weather patterns including predictions
of planting dates, length of growing seasons, etc.
Information and documentation services: Production of cultural handbooks
and advisory leaflets for the extension service and farmers and
organisation of a library retrieval system of scientific publications for
research personnel.
Basic seed of crop varieties: Initial first stage multiplication of plant
breeders' seed for further commercial multiplication for sale to the
farming community. Same for vegetable seed.
Fruit tree production: Nursery production of selected fruit tree varieties
through appropriate methods of multiplication including vegetative
propagation.
Applied economics: Examination of macro and micro economics of the markets
and production costs of agricultural commodities including the production.
storage and utilisation of foodcrops.
Data processina and statistics: Collection, processing, analysis and
presentation of research data and agricultural statistics.
Annex8. ear



SENIGAI
01UXIEN4  PIIOJEI Of RECHERClt IAGRICOIt
SUANIIAIF  CCOUI36S C0S1 SUMNARY
iCiA '0003                lUS331000 10otal
-  --   ----- ----   -  -    - ----- ----- I    Foreign  Bsea
local  foreign  lota3    local Foreign lotal  fmchings    Costs
I        I0V1S11AtI COSIS
A  Cfl4it C£31                                249 2   140 0    539 3    0 a         I I   I 9          58         6
HBIII(EHS BUREAU                             240   215 -'   239.9    0 1         0 7   0 a           so         2
mil imEs 1t0101                1              .3    16. 1      17.9    00       0 I   0 I           so         a
Stb lotal N6tAIIIIS                             25.1   232 1    251.       0. 1     0.7   0.            90         3
C AtMIitlt
161ERIt AGIICOtE                             164   347 *    164. 2    0 I        0 5   0 5           90         2
KAIERIEI  t I*AG                             32 a   295 5    328 3    0 I        3 .    I I          g0         3
MilRliE  0 IUFOhfIIOQUE                      15.6   140 3    ISS a    0 F        0 5   0 5           go         2
tflRIEt a IRIC611mI                           I 9    17 3       I3 2    0 0      0 I   0 1           90         0
Ss- lolal tUIERIEI                              66 8   600 A    667 6    0 2         1 9   2 1          90         7
a  tfHICUIES                                    31 S 337 6    375 1    0 1           I- I   1 2         90         4
E  IOliUlAIOa 7                                           I8 1     3s.6    00       0.0   0.            SO         0
f  131K111FiI1ED RESE11ACt4 DOCDRMS             31 1   279.9    311 0    0 1        O 9   I 0           90         3
lotel INWIESFItNI COSTS                           431  I 37.8. 1 2.216 3    1 3        S.8   7 I           31        22
11  IECURltii ces Is
a ptttset.&
MAIN 0 OEUVRE IF(P30*IRI                   489 9             489 9    3 6              I 6           -         5
FMelS DIP18CEh4tIS                        254 0              254 0    0               0              -         3 
IEIIIES DIIIERS                           432 3              432 3    14          -      4                     4
5S1A1ARS                                4.134 6            4. 7134 6   I5 2       -   I2                      47
Sub- lotal PIRSONulEI                       5.910 a           5.910 a   19 0              s9 0          -        58
f3IS DE F133ICFE14IK1I 39C3EC3IlS          152 6   352 6    7052     1 1        1 1   2 3           50         7
fUtIS DE FO3FI0U(IlEENIu V1NIHULES        227 2   221 2    454 4    017         0 7   I 5           SO         4
8UIES FR81S 0E foUCIIJI3UEK(U              259 0   295 4    554.5    0 a        0 9   I a           53         5
Si&-lotal F03Cl0I14E14A                      834 9   875 2   . 714 t    2 7        2 a   5 5           5S        17
C. ASSISIL1CE ITCHRIOWI if AUDIT               450   227 1    212 1    0. I        0 7   0. 9           3         3
lotal RCtJRIRE4  COSIS                          6.794 7 1.102 3  7.897 0   23 8         3.S  25.4           14       73
[olal SASEIINI  0SIS                            7.212 * 2.900 5 10. 113 3   23 2        9 3  32.5          29        100
P3A,tcal Contingmaces                           3I  7 3IS          3 IS0 5    0. I   0.5   0.6            0         2
Price Canatenganctos                          1.341 0   445 9  1 786 8    4 3         1 4   S 7          25         18
Fotal PUJICI COSTS                               8.592 5 3.498 1 12.090 7   27 6    If 2  33.9              29       320
IaY 1. 1939 10 53
%o
0



SLIHGOL
BIUIIENI P90.313 DE *(CH&RCNI OGIICOiF
Sum.ry Accounts by Year
lota Is Inc luding Cont ungwwes te                                  bas.s Ivcludn.  Comsal       se
1990         1993         1992         1993         191          total         1990    1991    1992       9113    Om4    Total
A. Sf111 civil                                 30?. 041. 3   318. 463 2    49. 098 9    40. 742.9     A. 281. 3    124. 308 7    907. 3 1.024. 0   100.3   131. 0    366  2. 32  2
S. mamaLiS
NSii iAeS 1111AM                             78I. 46.0    70. 913 4   107. 002 3    30. 760 0    16. 283.6    303.5914 I    252 6   228 0   344. I    U.S    92 4    979 9
NOliIIIIS lOGffIUI                            60793. 0    12.339 9             -      2.976 3             -     22. 100.5A    22.1    39.17        -      9. 6       -     71. 3
Suki-Iotla  NSIIIERS                           89.4,9.8 813. 252 9   107.002 3    33. 744 3    16.283 6    325.1702. 9    274.1   257.)   344.1   300.    92 4  1.047 3
NifiEi  *GII1cot I                           980471.0 S    1.793 a    33.4340 8       .961 3    10.379 7    202.997 3    316 6   166.4   101.9    26.84   33 4             M9  7
NAIFIIIIA 51 I 8B                           216.8666. I   136.164 3    27.741 I      S.0"I72      1I.022.8A    401.901. 3    697 3   4409    09U2    26 0    38 0  I.2"I 0
NAIFIIII I IntmIUIiioui                      0'.0?4 2    89.947 2    to. 00. 0        3. 49?. A                190.S19 2    28000   289 2    32. 2       II. 2       -    612 6
NOItlilL S IUIGIIBOU                         181. 89. 3    2.141 7             -      1,.4S7.9 S                23.0049  560 6          8a         -      4.0a              74. 2
Stk id lo 8a118111t                            421. 267.3   281. 42? I    7 1. 379.6a   22. 033 7    22. III0.9    0181.102.3  1, 354. 6   904.9   226 9    70.0     71 4  2.630.1
*  ViIIICUIis                                  242.1720 3   110.439 7    46.919s 4    44. 199 a    18. 492 2    462.A847 j    780 S   399. I   ISO- I   142 I    99     1. 40  3
[  FONNAIION                                                  9.671 2                   10.971 4             -     20. 242 6              31.1         -    34 0        -      69 I
*  UIJDiNlIFIID 815S1ARCm P50588S                       -   179.931 4                  190.284 3             -    366.99 2969  U.?                     -   634 3            1. I1I9a
lotal IUVL9INIUI COSIS                          1.056. 450 8 979. 185 9   217. 032 0   342. 279_9    69. 299 3  2.718. 199.9b  3. 396 9 3. 148.9   0614.3 31. 100.8   209.0  ,.740.2
II  MICIRRFNI COSIS.5
A  Pt (mSOAI.
MAINED OLUVAF IFNPOAIKI                    304.290 7   110.84596     116.387 A   122.207 2   126.317 6    902,738. 9    337 6   395 4   374.2   32. 9   41' S  1.1873 A
fl[OIS K PIACININIS                         93. 741 9    97.661 4    60S44 9    63. 971 7    66.790 3    302. 269 S    172 8   189b.4   194.1   204.4   234 6    oil I
Ilu[iIl[S DIVERS                           90.428 7    98.386 6      103.306 0   100.4)1 3   113.8948 A      914.487 4    2900A   31614   332.2   340.8   386.2  .1.6943
583*3815                                 1. 019. 119. I 1. 070. 067 9 3. 123. 979. 6  . 179. 799. 6 1. 238.1821 9  S. 631. 335. 7  3.276 9 3. 440  7 3. 612.6 AS. 793.4 S.9SU  4 It. 107. 2
Subn lot.1 PIASOBIUI                        1.6M. 269.92 1. 336. 961.   1. 403. 813.9 1.474.009 9 1.9541. 104.  7.030.63ll 9  4.070 0 4.298 9 49 13. 94. 739. 64.018.622.007 2
S. FOSIIIIII00NiUI
f1*IS 51 FCIIENIENIUI 51CNIRCIBS           M.49M3  7   399. 628 4   169. 939 2   176. 429. 2   I7S. 472 0    839.004 4    401 2   913 3   946 4   917 3   977 3 2.609t 2
("IlS MI IDUCII0SIUIEU  VIIIICIIIIS        9.S993 I   102.060 4 1307,990. 6   113.533 4   119. 742 3    S93.929 6    307 4   326 2   346.06  36  I   309 0  1.131 6
81113(  16615s 51 101C13011N111              g 13931- 0   125.40b 8A 130. 917. I   137.$91. 9   142.1397.2    656.203.9    309 3   403. 2   421.0.  443 4   497.31 2. 1  00
Smki lotal BDUCIIUUIKIUI                      369.063 7   387.1303 9    ". 422 9   427.894 0   441. 373.95  2.029.813 7  1. 173 II 1.244 7 3,3313.3 31.379.?7 1.419 2  6,9%26. 7
C  ASSISIAMCFIE 110U11  It £11511             323. 749 9    99.706. 4    98.075 6    36.397 0    37.920 7    311. 010. 3    397 9   179k. I3       K   116.7 369   12 1.9I  .0402. 6
lolal SICURiEK  COS1S                          1.79.077 2 1.7179.171 0 3. 870. 313 4 1.938.216 9 2.027.076 9  S. 372. 49.4  S.649 A 9.722 7 60133.9S ,237. 2 1.9II 9 301. 136 9
lanai PIIIJICI £O915                             2.813.b27 9 2. 198.9 9b  t 2.314S.349 9 2. 20. 492 9 2. 092. 332. 2 12. 090. 654 9  9.046  S.? 8.71. 2 6.81921 I7. 332 11 6.127 II 30.616 7
Nay I. Is8" 3098b



S LIIGAL
OtUliNit PtOJEI O PECItACHt  UICOI1
financing  Ian By Oesbursmnt Category
6.|5$'
liunmui Inot
StYfIOPNtIl       REPUBLIC of
ASSKCIAIION         SEfLOAt            Tolal
- --    -    ----  ---------- -  - -    - -------- -  local   (Enci.   I ra   8
un t       I      nounl      I      hount    I    for   athb          amxal        lam"
-   -=        : -==   -==    - -:: -.: ----                          :~- ..   . :.:
A. gUIF CiVYl                                                                 2.329 2 1000           0 0   00    2.329 2          0   1.353 7          *75 S
a.  mitUIaS .   DINAIFtUmS . tllRltt ARICOIt . naiuItn St OI48                3.677 8 100 0          0.0   0. 0   3.5?7     9.5       3. 09 9           367 9
C. VMItlCliS    IRACIElUUS .  OlYtfLiFES . tIC                                 . 4U  3 100 0           -      -         458 3   3 8    i.339 3          M48 9
1O  SEtVILiS Of COUSUtFIIS                                                    1.002 6 1000             -      -   1. 002 6   25         833 9           1S. I
E. F3.IS K  iONCIIINtlENI P9OO1OIUIS      ECNEECHtS                          8.5 767 2 100 0        0 0   0 0   8.767 2  22.6        2.4t;9 I        6* 2M 
I. F14IS K  IFNCIIONIILNEUEI SERVICES AONIIISIR*lfS                                  -      -  20. 366. 7 1000  20.366. 7  52 4         848 6        19 519. I
Fl IIOU                                                                          fb 65 I too 0        -      -       65 1   0 2          32 4           32. 
N. P9OCPUUIE   OtK  tIECNIt E ION ID lFItiEE                                   1. 179.  100.0          -      -   I. 179 a   3 0       1.061 O           ttO.6
otlOnlDibrment                                                                  18.S100  47 6  20.366 7  52 4  16.876?7 100 0           11.248 1       272.28             -
Nay 1. 1989 10 b8
O0
Mb



OIUXIIIN  P80.515 Di l5LcHi5&cls A9ICOti
f inanc sag Plan by Suary Accounts
INI11 AI IOUA
D(viFopssIN       BIPUBiIC OF
associasson  SLN(E.AL        jo-----l                   loal sizci   0hi.*s a
Amuni    2  Awowit   I      AnwlS      I    for  Ixch         IaxesS       fame~
I  IEVISINEIU  £0515
A  GINIF clvii                                 2.329 2 500 0         0 0   0 0   2.329 2   6 0         1.351-7           92% 5
A NOBiIIERS
13311111$ bUIIAI                              925.9 500.0         0 0   0 0       92% 9   2 5         aiae             98g0
815113fS tOE01111N                            To 3 l00.0 a25 3   0 2                                  64.2             2 I
Sub,-5ota5 11111ilIAS                          5. 0423  3000         0 0   0 0    5. 04723 22            942 2           losI
NAUIRIFI AG8ICoLi                             652 2 5000          0 0   0 0       652 27 5 2          Se? 4            65 3
NASFIIII  0t LAIO                           5.291 0 5000          0 0   0 0    I. 29150 33          1. 162 0          129 0
KAStRIFt 0 SUFONRISSASOI                      612 A 500.0                         652 6   5 6         551 4            65l 2
NAIIEIFI 8 1111G85501                          24 2 500      0    0a   0 0         24 2   0 2          66 a             2 4
Sit loale 111AFFIIFL                           2.630Gb 500 0         0 0   0 0   2.630 6   6 8         2. 367.?1         262 A
*  YFIucuFF%                                    . 488 3 500 0           -           . 488 3   3 8      5. 332.3          548 9
F  FOISAISOSI                                     6s I T000O                          65 I   0 2          32 4            32 2
f  uN5DSKNFIFlIE  miSIAmCs PRfoGaANS           5. 129 a so..                       3 . 529 a   3 0     1. 061- 0         558 8
lbIaS  INVFSINFNI COSTS                           8. 240 2 100 0         0 0   0 0   8.240 2  22 5        2.096 4         i.643 8
A  PFNSONNLL
HAIN1 B OIUVIE  FNFOOAIII                  3.722)5   9)9       5522I      I   5.8713 A   48              -         .273 a
18815 OIPLACININIS                           238 0  75 9      233 9  24 I       911 9   2 5              -925.9
SDINIIFS oivIRs                           1.486 3  89. 8       568g 0  50 2   3.654 3   4. 3                      I. 654 3
SALASRIS                                                   58l. 102 2 500.0   8.1502.2  46 6                     58. 502 2
Suib-Total PFRSO"SUF                          3.945 4  152 538. bbs 8  82 5  22.602 2  58 2                         22.60?-.2
FiAIlS AL FOUCSIOUNSKENI *LcNFAcNES    2. 258 0  84 I         42 1 5  IS 9   2.685t  2   b 9       3. 336. 5      5. 348.?7
138IS K1 FONCI£tOSUNINU  VINICUFF(S       1. 1%? 3  668       524 3  33 2   3.23) 6   4 5            861 A          8698a
AUJIBFS FRIlS OfF OuCSIUSSuFNIu            5. 406%5  667       7 03 5  33 3   2.110 0   5 4        5. t59s5         990 %
Sub-1tome1 IOICIIOSSuN&u5                     4.821 8  23 9   1.7204 9  26 1   6.526 2  16. 8         3.312 8         3. 208. 9
C  ASSISFANCI IICISNIUF Ft A"Oil              1.002 6 500 0                       1.002 6   2 6         833 9           Mt8 
lotle  SSFCUIIafh  COStS                          9.269 8  32 4  20.36617  62 6  30.536 5  22 5           4.151 7        25.9848A
lotal 0,s.wrsemens                                18.S30 0  42 6  20.36bl 1  52 4  38.826 2 500 0         11.248.15       22,.628 6
lay 1. 3989 50. 58



- 51 -
Annex 10
SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
Procurement Methods
________________________  Total
|       ~Items to be procured                  ICB       LCB    Other     N.A.     Cost
=_sss=w_*-X==~~======== =.======~=~=.=s-_===,=s=    z~===.. .... _
(USS Million)
Civil Works                                        2.3                         2.3
(2.3)                      (2.3)
Office Equipment, Computer Equipment      2.7      1.0                         3.7
Ag. Equip, Laboratory Equipment        (2.7)    (1.0)                       (3.7)
Vehicles                                  1.2      0.2      0.1                1.5
(1.2)    (0.2)    (0.1)             (1.5)
Consulting Services, Audit, Training                        1.0                1.0
(1.0)             (1.0)
Direct Research Costs                     3.2      1.5      0.5       15.6    20.8
(3.2)    (1.5)    (0.5)    (3.6)    (8.8)
Administration, Maintenance                                            8.4      8.4
Reserve Research Fund                                                 1.2      1.2
(1.2)    (1.2)
TOTAL                    7.1      5.0       1.6     25.2     38.9
(7.1)    (5.0)    (1.6)    (4.8)   (18.5)
=5=sS=__-s=ss_w="=w=s=ss=s=s====== ==
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective
amounts financed by the Association
Procure .wkl
SAR2



- 52 -
Annex 11
TEE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BstLaMted Schedule of Disbursements of IDS Credit
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year            Semester              at tha End of Semester
US$ Millions SDR Million
91                        1                    1.0             0.8
2                   3.0              2.3
92                        1                    5.0             3.8
2                   7.5              5.7
93                        1                   10.0             7.6
2                  12.0              9.1
94                        1                   14.0            10.6
2                  15.0             11.4
95                        1                   16.0            12.1
2                  17.0             12.9
96                        1                   18.5            14.0
annexll.sar
SAR2



A X**     WM%                                  - 53 -                                                Annex  12
QJ4MT iS  35S             S  O EX3.DOiThY  0
I go NU                                                           m 
I N T I r U L I S               133       i34        1          is"       17          iJS    C U    V L
intim, F           Pouson.g"    725. us   660. Ia    7ftfe2    usa iS 3. uW. ao
"mg aIohadtic.         46.466               5.729                 S.064               la6.66
t     o t a I       S61.6    713.3a    724.8    M734.2           L 40          0  3. 66 3.3
T _S01  c_eS                    33. *A        J67     41.2IO    3L.139    3.s2                  38.276
"Mg exploitation        1.544                  7                    323                  2.517
tot a t   11.72                30.867     41.30      3.139    26.83            0    JJ.9
NUTB aENYJs c S                  4e. 15 is 20.46 #40. 307   39.166           . 951            2.034306
Mm esololtatJtu        2e2"                 £7.29                 L. 073               10C6.i
t o t a I           263.373   ;40.446               S M.166    SS9.O4          0  2.241.604
"J1M1    ET cUa7m5                                                         27.772                27. m?
)10s *vp2oz~atJ~.                                                   420 110
t o t a J                 0         0          0          0      .2A1          0      25.266
oIS  ET  7Tm   WM=              2M6.6 0    62.66   234.684    70. 43  J        62.863           6. M
iia ioioNtat te     3 ? L                  764.76                30. *M3             4.172027
t .1 a I          3.63A946     61.6215   8. WO       M4w ON     32             0  4.774.420
fOIS B  EO                    1. 4605M   2.015.733 2.68.866  &*M.35  2.8OL729                 10.41 4.5S
"wes XoloJtatl .3464                      205624               49 3.14                634.247
t  o S a I        1.517.073  .OM752     . 794.a20  2.49. NO  2.301.M           0 1I.045.14
TWO1 ETSra S                       666     8 a5."     2A 373    AL.go0      6oo                 235.69
Mp" oJtatAo             1.306                1. A3                3.270                  5.83
t o t a 2            2 9.6     2a5.9      a9.36    5.40        29.475          0    244.707
DESMS                            L 46       2 471      4.123     3.973      3.92                 IL.735
NW$ e.aloroatlJo                                                      4                      $
t a  t a I             48       2471       4.235      3. 73     3.5           1)    26.739
DOTRTJUA   WO PT17N             270,32 2Sa    .34    4.0 Co      67"      64&3 93             2.237.213
H"Ws inpiojatJm        2%1                 24W                    241.300              374.OI 7
t o   I  a          1 26    2 L           93.74e   5L 79   57.69               0  2.312.40
ZDOTI'm  AN JSPOJ                                     ALM         .16 l    A432                  104.41
"Ws exploitati'on                            U640                 1.71                   L S.04
I o  t .0                           0 o79.0 o.275    16 .93                    0    3eo85
r OA        D t *  J ITh7WID    3.033 3. J3.t534  4. 3.   4.45323   3.8359.76              0 19632.129
k        1D    £NM .a   3. 47%30             0 1.131.77           0   S9.3              0  &. 23.774
TDT*L  SEMER*L    6.L 4L 65               3.33. L13S.201   463.L80  4.452.933             0   .56129.973
11n "- lms           j9duiasmsS   pIoisfiew mS *Ws t pl.ota



Ch~art I
_ 54 -
*  -
t ::\ f 0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'7'te;i4 v il T0l 'n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i   W F X ts'SMl.E~~~~~~55
4 ' \XiS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SENEGAL
SECOND ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AND RESEARCH PLANNING PROCESS
Nouvelle Politique Agricole
National Agricultural Policy
MDR                              se_arch                           C     l
Development                         I                       -1-    TstOlu
|  Agencies  |       _ _Plan Qui uennal
(5-ywar lan)
1989-1993
Regional Research  PrOgrams
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RSSii                                                                Ln
0  LUM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
Research  Programs
Qestlon des                 Ssee
Naturels       Ft          Agraires     Huleutlqus
et Rehab.     I _Versif.       e
EoosystemsMcWm
Resarch  Pro]ects
Plant      Plant                                            oQ n
Produdtlon    _Broding  Protection                                       oo
EKAN443578



SENEGAL
SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FUNCTION                                       STAGE                                      RESPONSUIUTY
Macro - planning                                      NPA      ]                                Government
Agricultural Sector                                                                             Council of Uints
National Agricultural                                  P         i                              ISRA Manpment
Research Strategy and Plan                                                                      advised byseST
- Planninig                                   i~ ~~
Control                                      I    RIeser c                     ISRksResch Drctors
- Diffusion of Technica                             Programs                                    Program Coordinators
Recommendiations
- Micro - planning
implementation                               (    Resewch                                      Regional Centre Chief
lDevelopment of                                    Programs                                    Prgram Coordinao
Recemmendations
- Planning of trials
Implementation                                     Research                                    Indidual Scidst                      X 
-Evaluation                                   [     Projects                                                                         A  :
- RWorlng                                                                                                                              1
EK%443Yc



____________________                                                                                                                                                           310~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O   2131
+             ~~SENEGAL
MAultiTA141A    MALI                                 PN                  M  A U R 1 T A N I A                             ~~~~~~SECOND  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  PROJECT
~~  ) -    NIGH  ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~         ....                                                     DEUXIEME ~~~~~~~~~~PROJET DLI RECHERCHE AGYRICOLE
ILa4z ~~~~~~~~~    ~ ~ ~     <~~~~  --~~~~~'-  oagaoa                                                                            *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io~~~~444~~~0    W%l ftnHS!ARCTOFAHUL          ZONESARH ONS
tt'OWNEA%.%t       I                                                                                                                                                    B ..-~h -ft                      1A MNC
,~~~( ~~~~ ~~c6so /   'II NIGH                                                                                                  Otis'. * s'.d..s't..               SW OW!?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cd*wdo-d--  W  xo
A  R-,tk.2 IlEAL RI"ON
Tom                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 COAST
-    -                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAINT -LOUIS  10' $:ri"                                             4 NMAY15
L  le                                                                                                                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hed. scJ 0fs  mv
-    Mhysti   n aS*oufr            5 NORT AND mN¶1  GROUNDN4UT ASAIN
his Wim Mar mare Os'                                                                                                           -   RioOs's                             NOW AND ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7V DV RMsANRDASSe AUOiCOW RAAD
Th. R S    ,Co"e 0tH",                                                                                                                                                                                          6ATEAN SENEGAL AND UPPER1 CASAMkANCI
is M c n     Waft                                                                                                                                                                                          7 SINIE sALOUm
t..r. .Me .fla* Pr if5                                                                                                                                                             G~~~~~~~~~~L    CNTV IT SW DuI eASSa ARACNDER
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  ",W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZOEE STIVNO  PASTORALE
onnp   -' wrn* Os0-    60r                                                                                                                                                                                    s
Ss' sAfl-q'Ia Pb 400 Ou.-                                                         DoaI.. 0                                                                                                                     20         40         600
CAP -VERT                       Aivois'
S.A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ML
COH  K ~ ~ ~   ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~      ~       Tmaoud          A    BA O N A<
A'X=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
-  CA wrrdo * tW             5G A    M            I 
National c'p,tal                      GUlCHO
L qion bnder..g
It.rnofionol hou"Idar,es         "        ~~                                                      ~~Kduo
O~~~~srouy4@  aas'os',0,. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                           1"'%- 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
JANUARY 1989



