Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7318-BIH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 53.2 MILLION
(US$72 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FORA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
June 1, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1, 1999)
Unit of currency: Konvertible Marka (KM), equivalent to 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
I KM=US$0.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH            Bosnia and Herzegovina
BFP            Budget Framework Paper
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CAFAO          Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office
CWS            Centers for Social Work
CBBH           Central Bank for Bosnia and Herzegovina
DMU            Debt Management Unit
EBF            Extra-budgetary Fund
EBPAC          Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
EU             European Union
FRY            Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
KM             Konvertible Marka
MFTER          Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
MTEF           Medium Term Expenditure Planing
MoF            Ministry of Finance
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PFSAC          Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
SAI            Supreme Audit Institution
SBA            Stand-by Arrangement
SFRY           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
VAT            Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Task Team Leader: Sebnem Akkaya



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROPOSED SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Operation Summary
Borrower:           Bosnia and Herzegovina
Beneficiaries:      Bosnia and Herzegovina, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Republika Srpska
Amount:             SDR 53.2 million (US$72 million equivalent)
Terms:              35 years, including a 10-year grace period
Credit Objectives:   To support the establishment of public finance structures and implementation of
reform policies at the State and Entity levels. Specifically, the Credit will
support: (i) broadening tax policy harmonization and strengthening administrative
co-operation between the Entities to enhance revenue capacity and to encourage
free flow of goods across BiH; (ii) improving revenue and expenditure assignments
within the Entities to prevent large differentials in the provision of public services;
(iii) initiating reforms to develop an affordable, efficient, and equitable social safety
net; (iv) developing a comprehensive budgetary strategy aimed at improving fiscal
efficiency and control; (v) establishing audit institutions and procedures to improve
transparency and accountability in public sector operations; and (vi) strengthening
country-wide policy coordination in external debt management, including
developing a policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing.
Credit Description:  The Credit will be lent to the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina which will in turn
onlend in the amount of US$42 million to the Federation and US$30 millionto
Republika Srpska, on the same terms as the IDA Credit. The Credit will be
disbursed in three tranches for budgetary and balance of payments support to
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Release of tranches will be linked to policy
conditionality as agreed during the negotiation of the Credit.
Benefits:           The implementation of the proposed operation will help BiH consolidate the
public finance reforms began under the PFSAC, substantially strengthen
prospects for continued fiscal stability, enhance sustainability of the structural
reform process, and reintegrate the economy. The reform program will promote
free flow of goods between the Entities and improve tax revenue collection by
completing harmonization of major tax structures, strengthening administrative
co-operation and revenue distribution. It will facilitate development of a more
robust intergovernmental system, which is supportive of the Entities'
stabilization and structural reforms and which will improve efficiency and
coverage of public sector services. By pursuing essential policy and institutional
reforms in budget planning and execution, the operation will help the Entities
correct the medium-term imbalance between revenues and expenditures and set
appropriate priorities for public outlays. The proposed reform program will also
improve medium-term financial viability and targeting of the pension system,
initiate design of an equitable and sustainable social safety net system, and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
ensure a certain level of equalization in the provision of health services through
developmen-t of an efficient health insurance system in both Entities. By
instituting sound auditing procedures, it will significantly enhance transparency,
efficiency and accountability of public service operations. Establishment of an
effective and integrated public finance structure will help BiH conduct sound
macroeconomic management, reduce cost to economic transactions, and achieve
extemal creditworthiness. By supporting the development of a public sector
which is more suitable to a market economy, the operation will also contribute to
private sector development, employment creation and poverty reduction.
Risks:              The Credit faces two major risks. First, there will be risks associated with BiH's
process of reconciliation, as has been demonstrated so far since the signing of the
Dayton Accords in December 1995. Several measures supported by the proposed
Credit are subject to intense political debate within the country-and, more
particularly, between the different ethnic groups-thus creating a potential for
nonrimplementation of the agreed measures and/or reversal of the adopted
reforms. Particular among them are the harmonization of the Entity tax policies,
pension reform in the Entities, especially unification of the Federation pension
funds, and reform of intergovernmental financial relations, particularly in the
Federation. To mitigate these risks, the Bank requires the upfront fulfillment of
conditionalities whenever possible and will work closely with the IMF, the US
Treasuky and others to jointly promote the implementation of the reform agenda.
The Bank also agreed with the BiH governments to set up working groups on
key reform areas and maintain close co-ordination with the existing ones to
promote consensus. The Bosnian authorities' strong commitment and success in
implementation of equally difficult set of policy measures under the first
operation has shown that obstacles created by low political tolerance can actually
be mitigated.
A second risk is that the Government's administrative and institutional capacity
will be insufficient to handle the complexity of the budgetary and auditing
reform actions envisaged in the PFSAC II. The Government is cognizant of this
risk, and its program is designed to minimize its administrative burden, by
appropriate phasing of the measures and application of the technical assistance
where needed. Certain essential technical assistance activities have already been
financed by PHRD grants. The bulk of the technical assistance requirements
would have to be carried through grant financed technical assistance (TA)
programs and/or parallel donor financed TA to augment the limited local
capacities.
Poverty Category:   Direct impact on poverty will be achieved through provision of more adequate
resources for social protection programs, and improved targeting and distribution
of social benefits.
Rate of Return:     Not Applicable
Map:                IBRD 28578R
Project ID Number:  BA-PE-55432



iii
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION .............1
II. ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS                                   .         .        2
A. Macroeconomic Performance and Policy Framework                        .2
B. Macroeconomic Prospects                                   .3
C. Exte         rnal Financing Requirements                     .3
III. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES IN PUBLIC FINANCE                                  .4
A. Dayton Rules on Public Finance Structure                         .4
B. Issues and Strategy in Public Finance Reform                       .5
IV. PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM PROGRAM                                       ..5
A. Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policies and Coordinating Tax Collection          .5
B. Reforming the Intergovernmental Finances within the Entities              .8
C. Reform of Social Safety Net .14
D. Reforming the Budgetary Management System                          .18
E. Establishing Auditing Procedures and Institutions .21
F. Strengthening Debt Management Capacity .23
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT                      ..25
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement            ..25
B. Credit Amount and Borrower .25
C. Credit Design.25
D. Administrative Arrangements              ..26
E. Disb-ersement.26
F. Monitoring Arrangements and Tranche Release Conditions .26
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements           ..28
H. Benefits and Risks               ..28
VI. RECOMMENDATION ...................                                                              29
ANNEX I          Policy Matrix
ANNEX II         Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX I          Health Finance Reform Program
ANNEX IV         Statistical Annex



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PFSACII)
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 53.2 MILLION
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit to Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BiH) in the amount of SDR 53.2 million (US$72 million equivalent) to help finance a Second Public
Finance Structural Adjustment Operation.  The proposed Credit would be on International Development
Association (IDA) terms, with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period. This operation is the third in a
series of adjustment operations designed to support the Government's program of structural reforms. It is the
second operation that focuses on public finance reform. The proposed Credit would continue support begun by
IDA under previous operations, and would underpin the country's fiscal reform program during FY99-00. The
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the progress report were discussed by the Board of Directors, in July 1997
and August, 1998, respectively. The most recent economic report on BiH (Bosnia and Herzegovina-From Recovery
to Sustainable Growth) was published in May 1997. A Public Expenditure Review was completed in October 1997.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    The proposed PFSAC II builds on BiH's achievements to date in establishing both the Dayton-mandated
common institutions and the governance structure in its two constituent Entities: The Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (Bosniac-Croat Federation) and Republika Srpska. With a marked improvement in progress toward
structural policy reforms since 1998, many critical institutions and policies are now in place. These include the
central bank and national currency; a legislative and regulatory framework for the banking sector and for
enterprise privatization; a uniform customs tariff and trade regime; financing means and mechanisms for the
common institutions; a legislative framework for budget management; and an institutional and legislative
framework for debt management. Significant progress has also been achieved in removing barriers to the
movement of goods and people within the country, including initial steps towards harmonization of tax systems
across the Entities. These reforms have been supported by two World Bank adjustment operations (the PFSAC
and the proposed Enterprise and Bank Privatization Structural Adjustment Credit) as well as by an International
Monetary Fund (IMF) Stand-by Arrangement.
3.    Sustaining and broadening the positive developments of the past year is the key challenge BiHfaces for
continued rapid reconstruction and growth in the medium term. Structural policy reforms must be accelerated if
BiH is to increasingly rely on its own resources and institutions in designing and implementing the policies
required for long-term development. The proposed PFSAC II aims to assist BiH to meet this challenge by
supporting further progress in institution-building and policy reforms in the following areas: (i) broadening tax
policy harmonization and strengthening administrative co-operation between the Entities to enhance revenue
capacity and to encourage free flow of goods across BiH; (ii) improving revenue and expenditure assignments
within the Entities to prevent large differentials in the provision of public services; (iii) initiating reforms to
develop an affordable, efficient, and equitable social safety net (iv) developing a comprehensive budgetary
strategy aimed at improving fiscal efficiency and control; (v) establishing audit institutions and procedures to
improve transparency and accountability in public sector operations; and (vi) strengthening country-wide policy
coordination in external debt management, including developing a policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing.



II. ECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. Macroeconomic Performance and Policy Framework
4.    Macroeconomic Performance. The combination of prudent economic policies and large-scale donor
assistance has yielded impressive results in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Economic growth has averaged about 40
percent in real terms each year since 1995. Inflation has fallen progressively, and is currently running at single digit
rates on a country-wide basis. There has been a significant increase in real per capita consumption for most
households. Many schools and health clinics have reopened, and the main infrastructure networks have been
largely rehabilitated. Commerce and production are picking up with the help of donor-financed lines of credit.
External debt rescheduling has been successfully completed with both London Club and Paris Club creditors,
significantly reducing the debt inherited from the former SFRY. The London Club agreement provided for a 73
percent reduction in the net present value of outstanding debt, including arrears; and the Paris Club agreement
provides for debt rescheduling on Naples terms or a 67 percent reduction in the present value of the debt.
Regularization of relations with remaining creditors, including the resolution of issues related to outstanding foreign
claims on non-government creditors, is expected to be completed by the end of this year.
5.    Despite the rapid economic recovery, reflecting the extremely depressed level of post-war economic
activity, GDP is still only at about 40 percent of its prewar level and living standards for many Bosnian families
remain low. Measured unemployment, which fell sharply during the initial years of economic recovery, appears
to have stagnated at around 35 percent-very high even by the standards of transition economies. Due to the
later start to donor assistance and economic recovery, and limited integration with the international economy,
incomes are lower in Republika Srpska than in the Federation. Although aid flows to Republika Srpska
accelerated following the election of a moderate government in January 1998, its close economic integration
with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia makes it particularly vulnerable to the ongoing conflict there (see paras.
9-10 below).
6.    The Macroeconomic Policy Framework.  Maintaining the macroeconomic stability that has been
achieved to date requires sustained prudent fiscal management by the authorities, further progress in institution
building and transition reforms, and continued international financial and technical assistance. The basic
underpinnings for this policy framework are provided by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) that was approved
in June 1998.
7.    The principal elements of the SBA program are: (i) use of a fixed exchange rate as a nominal anchor
through the currency board arrangement; (ii) limiting the fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector to levels
compatible with available sources of foreign financing and avoiding borrowing by all levels of government from
the domestic banking system and non-bank public; (iii) avoiding any significant accumulation of new domestic
arrears, especially in wage and social security payments; and (iv) continuation of large scale external assistance
on concessional terms. Structural elements of the program include customs tariff reform and trade liberalization,
consolidation of the fiscal institutions of the State and the Entities, and reform of the payments system. The
program also contains important elements of the agenda for banking reform and enterprise privatization and
restructuring. The first review of the SBA has been delayed but is now expected to be successfully concluded
shortly. The authorities have recently requested that the SBA be converted later this year into an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement, which would provide a medium-term framework for
macroeconomic policies and continued IMF assistance.
8.    The government's reform efforts have also been supported through adjustment lending by the World Bank.
The Bank's first non-emergency adjustment operation, the PFSAC (SDR 46.2 million, approved in June 1998)
assisted the Bosnian authorities in implementing key public finance reforms in 1998. These reforms were
instrumental in improving the consistency between State and Entity budgets, establishing a transparent and
predictable funding mechanism for the State budget, setting the legislative framework for budget management,
2



establishing a legal and institutional framework for debt management, initiating the harmonization and reform of
Entity tax systems, and initiating reform and re-organization of Entity pension systems. The PFSAC was fully
implemented and disbursed in less than a year providing a sound basis for the proposed follow-up operation,
PFSAC II, to broaden public finance reforms. In addition, a second adjustment operation, the Enterprise and Bank
Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC), is being presented to the Board together with the proposed PFSAC II.
The EBPAC would support the government's efforts in initiating bank and enterprise privatization through
privatization of small and medium-sized enterprises, bank restructuring and support for a deposit insurance
scheme. Tile proposed PFSAC II and EBPAC are both highly complementary to the SBA/ESAF.
B. Macroeconomic Prospects
9.    Prospects for Growth. Continued stabilization, institution-building and reform efforts are essential in the
coming years to ensure sustainable recovery and growth. However, the fluid political environment adds a certain
degree of unpredictability, and risk, to Bosnia's future economic performance. The ongoing conflict in the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) is having an important impact on economic developments in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, notably Republika Srpska. The main channels for this impact include reduced trade, investment and
economic activity, and higher unemployment. The fiscal position of both Entities has come under pressure from
lower tax revenues and higher public spending to deal with increased domestic social needs and new refugees.
10.   Despite the disruptions from the crisis in FRY, the Bosnian authorities have pledged themselves to press
forward with their economic reform programs. Under a scenario of continued policy reform, and assuming that the
crisis in FRY stops in the coming months, simulations indicate that after 1999 GDP growth would return to its
gradual path of deceleration from the very high postwar rates to rates more normally associated with open and
dynamnic economies (see Table 1). As in the recent past, growth and employment generation in the next few years
would be stimulated, to a large extent, by donor-financed activities. Subsequently, however, consistent with
anticipated declines in donor assistance for the reconstruction program, achieving balance of payments viability and
creditworthiness will require a sizable reduction in domestic absorption. This reduction will have to come from
public sector investment in light of the current very considerable reconstruction-driven levels of public investment.
At the same time, an effort will be required to offset this reduction in public investment by completing structural
reforms, in particular, to attract private capital and increase investment efficiency. Recurrent public expenditures
would actually be expected to increase modestly, in line with the need to strengthen social safety nets and to make
appropriate provision for the operation and maintenance of new investments. Consequently, enhanced revenue
performance would be critical to ensure medium-term fiscal sustainability. With these assumptions, Bosnia and
Herzegovina's GDP should reach about two-thirds of its prewar level by the mid-2000s, bringing living standards in
Bosnia much closer to the average of transition countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
C. External Financing Requirements
11.   Exceptional external financial assistance has made a major contribution to Bosnia and Herzegovina's
balance of payments. In addition to generous humanitarian assistance, the international community made
commitments during 1996-98 of US$4.2 billion, mainly on a grant basis, for Bosnia's reconstruction and peace
implementation activities. As of end-1998, total disbursements of grants and loan aid were estimated at about
US$2.8 billion. The Donor Conference held in May 1999, which was the last to be held in support of the Priority
Reconstruction Program, produced total pledges of US$1.05 billion. With the commitment of these pledges, the
external financing requirement of the US$5.1 million Priority Reconstruction Program would be met. Over the next
several years, disbursements of donor funds committed for the Priority Reconstruction Program will provide a
substantial share of Bosnia's external financing.
12.    Allowing for the impact of the crisis in FRY, Bosnia and Herzegovina's total external financing
requirement in 1999 is estimated at US$1.4 billion. As in recent years, this financing requirement consists
mostly of reconstruction costs and debt service obligations. After taking into account anticipated reconstruction
3



assistance and other identified official and private flows (including planned disbursements from the proposed
PFSAC II and EBPAC), there would be a residual financing gap of about US$60 million in 1999 which is
expected to be closed within the next few months.
Table 1: Selected Key Economic Indicators V, 1996-2005
Estimated                          Projected
1996      1997       1998       1999      2000       2001      2002       2005
Gross Domestic Product
GDP(US$ million)                           2741       3423      4082       4533       5333      6262       7090      9080
Real GDP growth (%)                          69         30         18         8         14        14         10          5
Investment (% of GDP)                        41         42         38        33         33        32         28         25
Public                                    24         24         20        16         13         11         7          2
Private                                   17         18         18        17         20        21         21         23
Consumption(%ofGDP)                         118        105        99         92         87        84         82         78
Public Sector Balances
Expenditures (% of GDP)                      78         56         52        48         48        47         44         40
Revenues (%ofGDP)                            51         31         32        31         35        36         37         38
Deficit (-)(%of GDP)                        -27        -25        -20       -17        -13        -11        -7         -2
Extemal Financing (%of GDP)                  27         23         20        17         13        11          7          2
Balance of Payments
Financing Requirements (USS million)        2333       2006       1683      1423       1289       1247      1022        587
o/wCurrentAccountDefici'                   1528       1710       1397      1079       1035       990        743        361
o/w Debt Service (scheduled)                575        386        227       195        204       207        229        175
o/w Increase in Foreign Exchange Reserves   230        -90         59       150         50        50         50         50
Financing Sources (USS million)             2333       2006       1683      1362       1188       1196       972        587
o/w Unrequited Current Official Transfers   558        422        190        94         45        45         20          7
o/w Donor Financing 3l                     1707        750       983        968        711       700        500        200
o/wFDlandOtherPrivateFlows                    0          0        100        60        162       185        230        280
o/wArrears Clearance andDebt Relief        -125        306        172        63         47        38         25         1 1
o/w Others                                  194        528       238        178        224       228        197         88
Remaining Financing Gap (USS million)           0         0          0        61        101         50        50          0
External Debt
Total Extemal Debt4' (in % of GDP)           137        127        71         72        68         64         60        55
Debt service(in%oftotal exports)              66        35          9          8         8          7          6         5
1/ Data refers to estimates for all Bosnia and Herzegovina unless otherwise stated.
21 Excluding interest and official transfers.
3/ Including use of IMF resources, other budgetary/balance of payments support. and fnancing for reconstruction.
4/ Reduction of debt stock in 1998 reflects debt rescheduling with London Club and Paris Club creditors.
Source: Official data, Bank and IMF staff estimates.
HI. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES IN PUBLIC FINANCE
A. Dayton Rules on Public Finance Structure
13.    The Dayton Accords provide a broad framework for building a new governance structure in BiH. Under
the Accords, BiH is a sovereign state consisting of two Entities, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
Republika Srpska, with a State government responsible for international relations and inter-Entity coordination.
Key economic institutions and policies envisaged at the State level include a central bank (organized as a currency
board in its first six years) and a new currency, customs and trade policies, international financial relations
(including servicing of international debts and debt management) and coordination in telecommunication and
transport. Unless mandated otherwise by the State Parliament, the State does not have the capacity to tax or collect
customs duties on its own. The budgetary needs of the State are to be met in the proportions of two thirds by the
Federation and one third by Republika Srpska.
4



14.    The Entity governments have exclusive responsibility in their respective territories over defense, intenal
affairs (including police), environmental policies, economic and social sector policies (such as agriculture, industry,
and health), refugees and displaced persons, reconstruction programs and justice, tax, and customs administration.
To carry out these responsibilities, each Entity retains ownership of the taxes collected in its territory. The two
Entities, however, have different fiscal structures. The Federation has a three-tier fiscal system: the Federation
government, cantons, and municipalities, with major responsibilities resting with the cantons. Republika Srpska has
a two-tier structure: the Republika Srpska government and municipalities, with very limited local fiscal authority.
15.    Despite considerable progress to date in establishing the Dayton-mandated public finance structure at the
State and the Entity levels, much remains to be done in building a framework for sustainable fiscal management. In
the Federation, the customs, tax and the payments systems were reintegrated; tax policies were broadly unified and
significant progress has been achieved in establishing canton-level fiscal administration. Nevertheless, co-
ordination between Entity and local governments remains weak. Consequently, separate policies and practices still
continue within the fiscal structure of the Federation. The Republika Srpska initiated basic fiscal reforms only last
year and, therefore, its fiscal system still operates along the lines of the former SFRY system. At the State level, the
institutional and legislative framework envisaged by the Dayton Accords began functioning last year, although there
have been, and will continue to be, ups and downs. The establishment of the central bank and the introduction of a
national currency, common customs tariff policies, and a State budget along with clear financing arrangements were
among the key factors that made this possible, while providing the basis for initial co-ordination between the
Entities in key areas of economic management. For BiH to start functioning as a unified State, however, these
initial efforts toward policy harmonization and coordination will have to be deepened and strengthened.
B. Issues and Strategy in Public Finance Reform
16.   Bosnia and Herzegovina is at a critical juncture on its road to sustainable economic growth. Sound public
finances will be critical to the credibility and, hence, sustainability of the structural reform process and robustness of
the supply response. Strengthened fiscal capacity is also the cornerstone on which creditworthiness must be built.
In order to achieve further progress in establishing such a viable medium-term fiscal management strategy, BiH
faces the following major tasks over the next twelve to eighteen months: (i) strengthening domestic resource
mobilization, including through better policy and administrative co-ordination both between and within the Entities;
(ii) introducing strategic public resource allocation, including through investmnent planning; (iii) improving revenue
and expenditure assignments at different levels of government and, hence, provision of public services within the
Entities; (iv) creating a fiscally viable social safety net with a greater focus on poverty alleviation in the transitional
period till the resource base of the system is strengthened to allow provision of more comprehensive social
assistance; (v) establishing institutional and regulatory frameworks for improving transparency and accountability
of government finance; and (vi) strengthening country-wide policy coordination in external debt management,
including developing a policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing.
IV. PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policies and Coordinating Tax Collection
Current Situation
17.    Significant progress has been made to date in reforming tax policies and strengthening tax administration
within the Entities. Harmonization of tax systems across the Entities has also been initiated. Reforms supported by
the first PFSAC, improved the tax system across Bosnia and Herzegovina by: (i) reducing exceedingly high tax
burdens; (ii) initiating the process of creating tax structures that would facilitate the free flow of goods between the
Entities and international trade; and (iii) rationalizing the public sector's size and role in the economy.
18.    The Federation Government has simplified its sales tax structure. It has further reduced the combined wage
tax and contribution rates and hence the burden on labor; broadened the wage tax base to include some non-wage
5



benefits, such as per diems and allowances; reduced the profits tax rate; and developed a global income tax. With
assistance from the EU, the government has also developed a reform program to improve tax collection by
strengthening the coordination between the Federation Tax and the Customs Administrations. As part of this
program, a Fiscal Administration Board was formed to coordinate the activities and to enhance the transfer of
information between the Financial Police, Customs Administration, and Tax Administration.
19.    The Republika Srpska has also achieved progress towards reducing the.wage tax by reducing the pension
and health contribution rates and the wage withholding tax. Similarly, sales and profit tax rates were significantly
reduced. In conjunction with these measures, the Ministry of Finance took several initiatives to maintain revenues,
including significant improvement in the inspection capacity for better enforcement and widening the tax net. These
efforts successfully resulted in increased revenue collection despite the implementation of significant rate cuts.
20.    The Entities began implementing the State-set common customs and trade policy. As a result, tarif rates
were simplified and unified, with an average effective rate of about 8 percent applying across the country for most
imports. Significant progress was made towards eliminating both special customs agreements with Croatia and
Yugoslavia and protective tariffs that are preventing full harmonization of the tariff system across the country. In
an effort to broaden harmonization of the tax systems, the Entities have also began harmonizing their sales and
excise tax systems by adopting similar tax bases and by collecting revenues at the same point in the distribution
process.
21.    Despite this progress, significant additional reforms of tax policies and administration are essential to
improve tax collection and to create an environment conducive to growth and private sector expansion in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. In particular, greater effort is needed to broaden and accelerate the process of harmonization of
the Entity tax systems and to establish strong administrative coordination between the Entity tax administrations.
Rapid progress on these fronts is crucial for minimizing tax avoidance and for minimizing harmful tax competition
as well as encouraging the free flow of goods between the Entities.
Issues and Plans in Tax Reform
22.    Building on the achievements to date in reforming the tax system, the most urgent challenges the tax policy
in BiH faces include: (i) incorporating all Entity specific tariffs into the State customs law and eliminating all
implicit tariffs imposed by the Entities; (ii) completing hannonization of the sales and excise tax structures between
the Entities; (iii) developing a revenue distribution system between the Entities to limit tax competition; and (iv)
developing adequate cooperative arrangements between the tax administrations in the Entities.
23.   Harmonization of Entity tax system&  The explicit tariff structures in BiH were rationalized and
harmonized with the passage of the State Customs Law in mid-1997. Nonetheless, full implementation of the Law
has been prevented by continued imposition of two kinds of Entity-set tariffs: (i) protective tariffs on certain
commodities, including many agricultural goods; and (ii) implicit tariffs, whereby the Entities impose differential
excise tax rates on domestic- and foreign- produced commodities, which effectively operate as tariffs. To develop a
joint approach for eliminating the protective tariffs, the Entities established a Committee composed of
representatives of the State and the Entity Ministries of Trade in mid-1998. The Committee has both identified the
list of items on which additional customs tariffs will be temporarily applied during 1999 and selected uniform rates.
The State Council of Ministers adopted the list and the rates in March 1999. Likewise, the Tax Working Group has
started developing a similar approach to eliminate the implicit tariffs. To achieve this, the Group must focus on
setting identical rates for excise taxes on domestic and imported commodities in the Entities by bringing the excise
tax rates on imported commodities down to rates imposed on domestic goods. This approach will ensure that all
differential taxes are accounted for in the special tariffs enacted by the Council of Ministers. It will, at the same
time, harmonize the excise tax rates on domestically produced goods between the Entities.
24.    For full harmonization of the customs system, the Federation and Republika Srpska must also eliminate
their special trade arrangements with Croatia and FRY, respectively, which effectively exempts most imports from
6



customs tariffs and subjects these commodities to domestic rather than foreign excise tax rates. Both Entities have
recently taken a decision to this end and are presently adjusting their customs system for initiating implementation
bv June 1999. Finally, in order to complete the harmonization of the sales tax system, the Entities must align the
sales tax rates. The existing differences in the sales, excise and customs tax rates create strong incentives for tax
avoidance through purchasing (either by wholesalers or consumers) in the low tax Entity. Elimination of most rate
differences is crucial to limit such avoidance and to encourage free trade. The Entities intend to achieve significant
progress towards this end by the end of 1999.
25.   Improving revenue attribution rules between the Entities. The problems arising from varied tax structures
between the Entities are exacerbated by the existing attribution rules, which result in sales and excise tax revenues
remaining where they are collected--e.g. excise taxes are collected at import or manufacture; sales taxes on all
excisable goods are collected where the first sale occurs. There are several critical problems inherent in the existing
system that prevents the growth of economic relations between the Entities. These include: first, incentives for
harmful tax competition, as each Entity has the potential to attract economic activity by undercutting the sales and
excise taxes imposed in the other Entity; second, inequity in the distribution of tax revenues between the Entities,
since sales and excise tax revenues do not accrue to the Entity where consumers live; third, creation of
disincentives for trade between the Entities, as they receive the excise and sales taxes on commodities obtained from
any location except from the other Entity. As trade between them grows, the Entities are increasingly concerned
about implications of the existing attribution rules. To improve the system, the Entities need to develop a
mechanism that would ensure maximum revenue collection while providing the revenues to the Entity where the
commodities are to be consumed. This is best accomplished by collecting the revenues at the point of import or
manufacture and passing them from the collecting Entity (where manufacture or import occurs) to the consuming
Entity (the Entity of destination) through a mechanism which would ensure that revenues are paid to the proper
Entity, such as introducing tax stamps. The Tax Working Group mentioned in para.23 is developing a joint
approach to resolve the attribution problems.
26.   In the medium-term, the Bosnian authorities will have to consider ways to collect sales tax revenues within
a system entailing fewer complications than the existing system. A value added tax (VAT) could constitute such an
alternative. The VAT system would not only generate more revenues, and close opportunities for evasion, but
would also further the alignment of the BiH's tax system with European norms. Both Entities are considering
exploring the VAT's potential and analyzing how it could be structured within and across the Entities. In addition,
the Entities also recognize the need for developing a highly coordinated tax administration as a precondition for the
introduction of the VAT.
27.   Strengthening administrative co-ordination between the Entities. Co-ordination between the two Entities
on tax and customs administration remains limited thereby opening opportunities for tax evasion. As a result, the
Entity tax administrations are unable to fully audit transactions and tax returns that involve both Entities; they are
unaware of many transactions between firms across the Entities.  The Entities are considering improving
administrative co-operation, and to this end have recently initiated a dialogue under the EU's supervision.
Nonetheless, initial arrangements will only provide a limited degree of cooperation. Effective elimination of the
potential for tax evasion, introduction of new attribution rules for revenue allocation between the Entities, and
eventually a VAT system all require strong administrative cooperation. The best way to achieve this is developing
an information sharing system between the tax administrations in the two Entities.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC II
28.    The proposed operation will support the continued development and implementation of tax reforms, with a
particular emphasis on harmonization of tax policies and coordination of tax collection across Entities. Prior to
Boardpresentation, the Federation and Republika Srpska will have (i) started implementation of the State-set tariff
surcharges by eliminating their respective protective tariffs; (ii) eliminated special trade agreements with Croatia
and Yugoslavia; (iii) equalized the excise tax rates on domestic and imported goods so that all differential taxes are
accountedfor in the tariff surcharges enacted by the State Council of Ministers; and (iv) established a Working
7



Group to develop a plan for coordination between the two tax administrations. Additionally, it is also expected that
preparation of a plan to allocate the sales and excise taxes between the Entities in a more equitable and
administratively feasible way will have been initiated.
29.    Prior to the second tranche release, the Federation and Republika Srpska will have (i) completed the
harmonization of sales tax system by reducing differences in sales tax rates; (ii) submitted to their Parliaments
amendments to their sales and excise tax legislation on inter-Entity allocation of the sales and excise taxes; and (iii)
adopted a plan to strengthen the coordination between their Tax Administrations in a way to ensure effective
implementation of the new inter-Entity allocation rules for the sales and excise taxes.
30.    By the third tranche release, the Federation and Republika Srpska will have started the implementation of
(i) new legislation on inter-Entity allocation of sales and excise taxes; and (ii) administrative co-ordination
necessaryfor effective implementation of the new legislation on inter-Entity allocation of sales and excise taxes.
31.    The technical assistance, which has been provided through the previous operation and during the
preparation of this Project, will continue during implementation. In particular, the Bank will assist and advise the
Entity Governments in: (i) examining the revenue attribution rules and developing acceptable arrangements to
ensure that the revenues are allocated in an equitable and administratively feasible manner; (ii)strengthening the
administrative coordination; and (iii) modernizing the tax systems, particularly through development of a VAT
system.  Financing for the technical assistance is being provided through Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) grants.
B. Reforming the Intergovernmental Finances within the Entities
Current Situation
32.    Under the Dayton Accords, major government budgetary responsibilities are divided among the four levels
of government: the State, the Entities, the cantons (in the Federation) and the municipalities. The design of the
intergovernmental fiscal system assigns limited economic and fiscal management responsibility to the State and
provides significant autonomy to the Entities. The Entities have different fiscal structures. In the Federation, canton
level administration is being developed as the major instrument of government to accommodate different demands
for services and to allow for greater local control over setting services. A more centralized structure is operating in
Republika Srpska. Unless otherwise mandated by the State Parliament, the budgetary needs of the State are to be
met in the proportions of two thirds by the Federation and one third by Republika Srpska, with the Entities having
ownership of the taxes collected in their territories.
33.    Since mid-1997, the State and the Entity Governments have intensified their efforts to establish Dayton-
mandated budgetary financing arrangements. With assistance from the Bank under the first PFSAC, the 1998
budgets set the stage for the formulation and implementation of mutually consistent budgets across all three
Governments. This was made possible by establishing both clear financing arrangements and a transfer mechanism
between the Entity and the State govermnents. These arrangements have substantially improved stability and
transparency of financial relations between the three governments, and provided the State with regular funds to
undertake its administrative functions and to meet external obligations.
34.    Progress in establishing the cantonal governance structure has continued in the Federation including
considerable, though uneven, progress in integrating the administrative structure in the two ethnically mixed
cantons. At present, all cantons have basic fiscal management and legislature structures in place and they are all
fully operative. The revenue and expenditure assignments, since 1997, have generally followed the structure laid
out in the new Federation Constitution. Revenues are distributed using a pure tax assignment system. Customs and
excise tax revenues and, starting mid-1998, profit taxes on certain large firms (such as the electric and telephone
companies) are assigned to the Federation Government and the remainder of the revenues, mainly from sales,
profits, and wage taxes, are assigned to the cantons and municipalities. Combined, cantons and municipalities
8



collect more than 60 percent of Federation-wide revenues with the municipalities' share averaging about 20 percent
of the revenues from the canton taxes.
35.    The Federation Government has relatively little service delivery responsibility-4imited primarily to defense
and social assistance for veterans and their families. Together these services account for a large proportion of
Federation spending (more than 60 percent in 1998). Service delivery for functions such as health, education,
housing, social assistance and police is primarily a cantonal responsibility, with each canton determining the relative
role of the canton versus the municipalities. Generally, municipalities deliver preschool education, some social
assistance, culture, sports, and utility services that are provided through off budget companies. Despite the
Federation's success in significantly improving the sales tax revenue allocation between cantons during 1998, per
capita service provision capacity varies widely across cantons. At present, except for a very minimal ad-hoc
Federation pool, there is no mechanism to improve horizontal equity in access to basic public services across
cantons nor to account for externalities in service delivery.
36.    The Republika Srpska Government undertakes almost all service delivery--with municipalities primarily
responsible for utility services, also generally provided by off budget companies. Tax revenues are collected at the
central level of which about 10 percent (mainly from sales, wages and profit taxes) are allocated to municinalities
through a system similar to the one between the Federation cantons and municipalities. The revenue allocation has
been improved since 1997 to provide certain municipalities with a slightly higher share of tax revenues, depending
on their characteristics. The allocation of revenues is higher for those municipalities that are on the border, have
high social problems, have significant damage from the war, or have large numbers of refugees. These adjustments
constitute a step towards eliminating financial imbalances at the local level. The government is currently
developing a new decentralization strategy.
Issues and Plans for Reform of Intergovernmental Finance
37.    Because of the Federation's more complicated structure, issues in intergovernmental finance remain
relatively more significant in the Federation than in Republika Srpska. Despite the appearance of clear rules in
revenue and expenditure assignments in the Federation, a series of specific issues remain to be addressed for
ensuring provision of minimum services across the Federation and for enhancing the public sector's operational
efficiency. The key issues include: (i) improving the allocation of revenues across the Federation; (ii) strengthening
the legislative structure to prevent exemptions or concessions against another level of government's tax bases; (iii)
enhancing local revenue capacity and clarifying local autonomy to implement local taxes; (iv) developing
mechanisms to effectively finance and deliver services with geographic spillovers; and (v) improving the emerging
health finance system to ensure Entity-wide provision of basic health services. In Republika Srpska, a greater
attention must also be given to maintain an efficient intergovernmental system which requires a careful analysis of
the emerging decentralization strategy.
38.    Improving revenue attribution rules within Federation. Existing arrangements in the allocation of
revenues between the cantons result in a relatively wide range of revenues on a per capita basis (about 5:1 in 1998).
Despite improving the revenue allocation since 1998, attribution of sales taxes on excisable commodities to the first
buyer's location results in disproportionately greater per capita revenues in those cantons with high economic
activity and cantons where importing is concentrated. Similar deficiencies exist in the current allocation of profits
tax revenues to the headquarters canton, in cases where companies operate in more than one canton. In the absence
of any Federation mechanism to address current disparities in fiscal resources available to the cantons, low activity
locations are able to deliver fewer services. To improve the revenue distribution, the Federation government needs
to develop mechanisms for (i) improving revenue allocation rules to ensure that greater revenues are allocated to the
place of destination; (ii) redistributing some limited tax revenues; (iii) altering sharing rules between jurisdictions in
cases where some component of the taxable activity takes place in more than one jurisdiction.
39.    As in the case of inter-Entity allocation of sales and excise tax revenues (discussed in para.25), changes to
the attribution rules within the Federation require a mechanism that would maximize revenue collection while
9



providing more equitable distribution of revenues across cantons. Both of these objectives could be achieved by
collecting taxes at the import or manufacturing stage and by allocating them according to a formula that would
constitute a good proxy for the distribution on a destination basis. Tax evasion in the Federation could be
significantly minimized by collecting sales and excise taxes at import or manufacture-e.g. revenue collection is
estimated to improve by about one-fourth if only sales taxes evasion on imported excisable commodities could be
reduced. Reduction of evasion would, in turn, allow all cantons to receive higher revenues. The Federation
government, in co-ordination with cantons, is currently exploring options--including the approach described above--
for improving sales and excise tax revenue allocation and it intends to formulate an approach for implementation in
the next year.
40.   Improving the allocation of profit taxes in the Federation requires a comparatively different approach.
Under the existing system, frms operating in multiple cantons make no contribution toward financing the delivery
of services in cantons where they have branches, despite benefiting from public services offered in these cantons.
This creates disparities in access to resources. It also provides an incentive for the cantons to compete for
businesses by cutting taxes. A set of situs rules could be developed to improve revenue sharing arrangements
between cantons. However, such sharing mechanisms entail significant administration and compliance costs.
These costs can best be avoided by collecting the profit taxes at the Federation level. Since this would mean a
reduction in the revenues provided to cantons, such a shift must be made along with a set of expenditure
responsibilities. The Federation has already initiated revenue re-allocation in October of 1998 by transferring to
itself ownership of the profit tax revenues from many large firms--representing about one-half of profit tax
collections. Expenditure assignments were, however, maintained, creating additional pressures on already tight
canton finances. The problems associated with both profit tax revenue allocation and with those expenditures that
have a Federation-wide impact, but presently assigned to cantons without clear financing arrangements-such as
higher education and tertiary health care-could be eliminated by re-assigning the profit taxes to the Federation,
along with responsibility for such services.
41.   Enhancing andprotecting revenue capacity in the Entities. Both the tax base and the tax rate for most of
the important taxes in the Federation--including sales, wages, profits-are determined at the Federation level. Since
uniform rates and bases will be more difficult to achieve with devolved control, administrative and compliance
efficiencies arise from Federation control over most taxes and bases. To safeguard cantonal revenues, however, the
cantons must be protected from the Federation's exempting taxpayers or narrowing the base for taxes assigned to
cantons. At present, the sales tax law allows the Federation to reduce sales tax rates for periods of up to six months
by decree-the decrees are, however, renewed every six months. Based on this provision, the Federation has
granted an increasing number of exemptions from the canton sales tax base in recent months. Similarly, payroll
taxes were reduced for certain groups; autos produced in Sarajevo are being subjected to lower tax rates, and a
portion of the profit tax revenues was shifted from cantons to the Federation. Furthermore, there has been a rapid
increase in the number of duty free shops in the Federation where no sales tax is collected and where excise tax
rates have been lowered. Transactions at such open, informal markets have also created significant opportunities
for evasion. While failing to stimulate economic activity in any significant way, tax exemptions worsen financial
imbalances at each level of government. To address this problem, Federation needs to introduce several measures
including: (i) allowing changes on the tax bases and rates, only if provided under the existing laws and through a
Parliamentary act; (ii) eliminating the existing tax exemptions; and (iii) adopting measures to effectively control
duty-free shops and ensure that transactions at such establishments are limited to authorized persons. In Republika
Srpska, practice of tax exemptions/relief to date has been comparatively limited and the above stated principals
should guide the tax policy in the future.
42.   In addition, the Federation tax system needs to be adjusted to establish appropriate incentives for cantons
and municipalities to increase revenue collection. The existing system does provide cantons with the majority of
Federation-wide tax revenues, but allows them little capacity for varying their revenue structure to meet the
different preferences of their citizens. To provide cantons and municipalities with a reasonable flexibility over
revenue instruments, while retaining a coherent and easy-to-administer tax structure, cantons could be allowed to
10



exert a limited control over tax rates and fees. The Federation must, ho sever, continue to maintain control over the
tax bases. This could be achieved by legislating minimum tax rates and hence limiting the degree of tax
competition between the cantons and municipalities. Although maximum rates could also be established,
competitive pressures between the cantons will generally make establishment of such rates unnecessary.
43.    The portfolio of potential taxes available to augment local government finance, particularly in
municipalities, includes property-based taxes. These taxes are currently imposed as excise taxes on property in both
Entities, though to a limited extent. Both Entities are considering gradually expanding the existing system toward a
traditional property tax. The information and administrative infrastructure associated with the existing property
based taxes in both Entities provide a sound basis for developing a broader approach to property taxation.
Successful development of a property tax system will require cooperation between the finance, cadastral and tax
administration offices of the Entities' local governments.
44.    In the Federation, almost all tax revenues collected by the FTA are intended for the cantons and
municipalities, since Federation-owned taxes (i.e. customs and excise taxes on imports) are collected by the customs
administration. Advantages in terms of lower operational costs, coordination of administration, and uniform
practices all argue strongly in favor of the administration at the Federation level. For the efficient operation of this
system, however, it is also important that the cantons feel the Federation is making a good faith effort to collect
revenues. At present, the cantons suggest that revenue collection can be enhanced if the FTA becomes more
responsive to local concerns and follows up more vigorously on cantonal information and input. There is also a
tendency by some cantons to establish cantonal tax administrations. To improve tax collection and to forestall this
tendency, the Federation must strengthen the coordination between local FTA branches and the cantonal Ministry of
Finances. Another step in improving tax collection is to develop and implement a plan to merge the Financial
Police with the Tax and the Customs Administrations. While substantially improving use of limited resources, this
would ensure that taxpayers are confronted with coordinated audits and administrative activities. A similar approach
to reform the revenue collecting institutions is also needed in RepublikaSrpska.
45.    Improving public service delivery in Federation. The Federation faces the challenge of preventing the
large differences in access to fiscal resources across cantons from being translated into large differentials in the
supply of public services. This is particularly important for those public services with major externalities to the
Federation as a whole--e.g. education and health--which are broadly assigned to the cantons in the Federation. To
date, progress has been slow in developing efficient mechanisms for delivering and financing education and health
services. Measures are now urgently required for developing these mechanisms, particularly for improving the
provision of health care within the Federation.
46.    Services with Geographic Spillovers Under the existing system, the respective roles of the Federation and
cantons in the provision of tertiary health care and higher education services remain to be determined. These two
services are currently being delivered and largely financed by selected cantons, but the benefits are received by
residents from many cantons. The present system entails both equity and efficiency problems since: (i) one
canton's residents finance services for other cantons; and (ii) in the presence of geographic externalities, cantons are
likely to under-provide these services since they would fail to adequately account for the benefits received by other
areas in the Federation. There is also a risk of creating incentives for establishing university faculties and more
sophisticated health care services in every canton. Assigning tertiary health care and higher education services to
the Federation could effectively address the weaknesses of the present system. The additional revenues that the
Federation needs for providing these new service responsibilities could be obtained by shifting the profit tax
revenues from cantons to the Federation-actually a large portion has already been recently assigned to the
Federation without any adjustment in canton responsibilities (see para. 40). A first step in shifting higher education
and tertiary health care services to the Federation involves developing an effective service delivery framework. In
the case of higher education, this includes determining locality, governance structure and financing arrangements.
A similar framework needs to be developed for tertiary health care within a broader health care reform as presented
below.
11



47.    Health care finance in Federation. The Federation Health Care Law envisages a canton-based health
insurance system, financed by payroll tax contributions. Recognizing that such a system will lead to undesirable
small risk pools, it also provides for the creation of a Federation level health insurance fund, responsible for certain
joint health care functions. To date, progress in establishing this system has been modest. Cantonal health
insurance funds were to be created by February 1998, but only three cantons have established such funds. Several
canton'- rontinue to deposit health care contributions in the general canton budget and use a portion of these funds
for financing other services. Health contributions in the Croat-majority cantons continue to go into a single fund.
As for the Federation level structure, the Federation Health Insurance Fund was established, and its Director was
appointed in December 1998. Nonetheless, both services to be provided by the fund and financing sources have yet
to be specified.
48.    The effectiveness of this system in reducing the existing wide variations across cantons in access to health
services, and in enhancing the overall health service delivery in Federation, critically depends on the design of the
Federation level Health Insurance Fund. The Fund is expected to undertake a major responsibility in: (i) ensuring
that all eligible residents of the Federation have access to basic health care services; (ii) financing services with
Federation-wide benefits, such as eligible tertiary care services and highly specialized services that can only be
delivered effectively in a limited number of locations for a larger risk pool; and (iii) providing technical and
managerial assistance in operation of the cantonal health insurance funds, including centralized procurement of
medical supplies.
49.    To effectively undertake these functions, the Fund must have a strong overall administrative role within the
health care system as well as sufficient financing resources. The resource base of the Fund is currently envisaged to
constitute no less than one-fifth of the total health contributions. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the progress
towards rapid implementation of new health care system, the Federation government also needs to determine an
affordable package of basic health care services that will be provided across the Federation, with options for
additional services to be financed at the cantonal level. The technical work towards this has been initiated (with the
assistance from the World Bank under ongoing health projects) with a focus on determining the most cost-effective
basic package of health services along with management tools and incentives to promote their effective provision
and usage. The Federation is considering taking the actions necessary to complete the establishment of cantonal
insurance funds and to specify the parameters of the Federation insurance fund before the end of this year so that
health contributions can start flowing into the cantonal insurance funds and the Federation insurance fund can start
operating in the new fiscal year. (see Annex III, for more detailed presentation of the health finance reform
program)
50.    Strengthening intergovernmental finance in Republika Srpska. Over the past months, the Republika
Srpska government has prepared draft legislation on local management that proposes to decentralize the governance
structure by creating an intermediate set of governments in the form of districts. The legislation calls for creation of
eight such districts that would be responsible for roads, communications, secondary education, and regional health
care. The districts are to be financed mainly by a percentage of tax revenues raised in their jurisdictions. Under the
new structure, municipalities will retain their responsibilities for utilities, local roads, culture, education, sport,
health and social protection based on the existing revenue sharing arrangements with the central government. The
draft legislation lays out a very general structure. Therefore, the proposed operational relationship between the
governments as to whether the districts would be de-concentrated arms of the Entity government or more
independent governments-as cantons in the Federation-remains unclear. In the former case, the proposed
structure could enhance administrative efficiency; in the later case it could create the same type of equity and
efficiency problems that exist in the provision of particularly social services in the Federation. The Republika
Srpska authorities agree that a more coherent structure needs to be designed, with a focus on enhancing the
administrative efficiency. They have asked the World Bank to continue providing its assistance in this area under
the proposed PFSAC II.
12



51.   Health care finance in Republika Srpska. The health care system in the Republika Srpska is being financed
mainly by payroll taxes. There are also transfers from the general budget to finance health contributions of certain
unemployed populations, such as refugees and demobilized soldiers. The government is currently in the process of
adopting a new Health Insurance Law with a focus on (i) improving the financial viability of the system through
promotion of cost-effectiveness and efficiency in public health service delivery; and (ii) developing a solidarity
system, as in the case of the Federation, ensuring equal access to the basic package of health care services across
Republika Srpska as well as financing eligible tertiary health care services. The definition of the basic package of
health care services is, in turn, crucial in achieving the government's objectives stated in item (i) above. To this
end, as in the case of Federation, the use of management tools and incentives to influence the behaviors of service
providers and consumers is essential. Another important challenge is to implement incentives and sanctions to
improve collection. The government is considering addressing this challenge by developing guidelines which
would establish: (i) procedures for improving transparency in budgeting and usage of health contributions; (ii)
incentives/sanctions to improve collection; (iii) procedures for strengthening coordination between the central fund
and its branch offices; and (iv) prototypes of contracts to guide the purchasing of health services.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC II
52.    The proposed operation will support the authorities' efforts in developing a sustainable intergovernmental
fiscal structure across BiH by focusing on the key issues described above. As an initial step in this direction, by
Board presentation, both the Federation and Republika Srpska will have either eliminated or agreed to eliminate
existing tax relief and exemptions with a specified expiration date, including those exemptions granted to duty-free
shops, unless providedfor by international treaties or under their tax legislation, by allowing them to expire at the
end of their current term. Additionally, it is expected that preparation of a plan to (i) improve allocation of sales
taxes on excisable commodities and profit taxes in the Federation; (ii) shift responsibility for higher-education to the
Federation Government along the lines described in para. 46; and (iii) determine the key operating features of and
establish the respective Health Insurance Funds in Federation will have been initiated. It is also expected that the
draft legislation on local management in the Republika Srpska will have been revised to design an efficient
decentralization strategy.
53.    Before the second tranche release, on the revenue side. (i) both the Federation and the Republika Srpska
will have eliminated all those tax and duty exemptions that are without a specified expiration date and that are not
provided for under their tax legislation or by international treaties, and adopted measures to effectively control
duty-free shops and ensure that transactions at such establishments are limited to authorized persons; and (ii) the
Federation Government will have amended its sales and excise tax legislation for improving collection and
allocation of sales tax on excisable goods between the cantons. In addition, the Federation is expected to adopt
measures to enhance local revenue capacity and to clarify local autonomy to implement local taxes. On the
expenditures side: (i) the Federation will have established cantonal health insurance funds; (ii) the Federation
Government will have determined and adopted responsibilities and financing sources for the Federation Health
Insurance Fund in line with principles described in paras. 48-49 above; and (iii) Republika Srpska will have
adopted guidelines to improve administrative efficiency in health service delivery and the collection of heath
contributions. It is also expected that measures to shift responsibility for higher education to the Federation and
decisions for sources of financing are taken.
54.    Before the third tranche release, on the revenue side, the Federation will have started the implementation
of the new collection and allocation system for sales tax on excisable goods between the cantons. On the
expenditure side, the Federation Government will have adopted amendments to the Law on Health Care on service
responsibilities and financing sources for the Federation Health Insurance Fund. During the preparation and
implementation of the proposed project, both the State and the Entities are expected to continue implementing the
State finance mechanism. The technical assistance which has been provided through previous operations and
during the preparation of this operation will continue through implementation. The focus of the assistance will be
on (i) supporting the design of new models to improve revenue and expenditure assignments in both Entities as
13



described in the above paragraphs; (ii) developing a more comprehensive property tax system in both Entities; and
(iii) strengthening the tax administration capacity in both Entities.
C. Reform of Social Safety Net
55.    Fundamental reforns in the existing social protection programs for the elderly, the poor, the sick, the war
veterans and their families are needed in BiH in order to balance resources with the needs of poverty alleviation, as
donor assistance is being phased out. The proposed operation supports the Entities' efforts to develop a fiscally
viable social safety net system.
(i) Reforming Pension System
Current Situation
56.    Rising wages and employment over the last three years, and hence the rising pension tax base, brought
about a significant increase in pension revenues of the three pension funds presently operating in BiH--two separate
schemes in the Federation, covering Bosniac-majority areas (the Sarajevo Fund) and Croat-majority areas (the
Mostar Fund), and a Republika Srpska scheme. Despite the resulting parallel increase in benefits, benefit levels
remain less than one third of their pre-war levels in the Federation and less than one fifth in the Republika Srpska.
The cause of the financial strain is the high ratio of pensioners to contributors, which is presently at about 0.8:1
across the three funds. This ratio will be even higher when the number of contributors is adjusted downward to
account for some firms and the military both of which accumulated arrears in contributions to pension funds.
57.    All three funds operate on a pay-as-you-go basis-i.e. current contributions are paid out as benefits in the
same period. Each fund, however, pays pensions according to a different formula, reflecting differences in their
response to the post-war financial situation, which does not allow for the payment of pensions according to the pre-
war formula. In the Mostar Fund, earmarked revenues are divided by the number of pensioners resulting in a flat
benefit, zero balance as well as highest minimum pensions in BiH. In the Sarajevo Fund, until the passage of the
Federation Pension Law in 1998, the pre-war formula was used to calculate pensions but roughly half of this
amount was actually paid out and the difference between the actual and statutory benefits was considered to be a
debt owed to pensioners. The new legislation, consistent with the first PFSAC reforms, declared all future benefit
payments final, precluding the possibility for further arrears. The Republika Srpska Fund pays pensions according
to a formula which gives higher pensions to those with more education-as a proxy for pre-war higher earnings. It
operates with significant transfers from the budget since earmarked contribution revenues are not sufficient to cover
outlays. In both the Republika Srpska and the Sarajevo Funds, the present distribution of benefits results in
relatively wide range of pensions (5:1). The situation is especially difficult for those with below average pensions,
especially in the Republika Srpska where average benefits (75 DM) are about half of those in the Federation (150
DM), reflecting large differentials in average wages.
58.    The new Federation Pension Law mentioned above has several positive features which should lead to some
reduction in medium term pension spending pressures. It reduces future new pensions; restricts eligibility in the
medium term via provisions on the assessment base and retirement age; brings post retirement indexation more into
line with material resources of the funds; and most importantly, equates actual with legal pension payments in the
Sarajevo Fund as indicated above. Moreover, it creates both a Federation-wide framework for social policy by
forcing the two Federation funds to operate under one Federation-wide law, and a Federation Pension Agency with
a mandate to begin the process of re-integration of the pension system. To this effect, it calls for preparation of a
follow-up legislation deternining the new organizational structure. Nevertheless, significant additional reforms are
needed to improve the finances of the Federation funds. A similar set of pension reforms is also urgently needed in
Republika Srpska.
14



Issues and Plans for Reforming Pension System
59.    At present, BiH faces three challenges in pension policy: First, financial constraints need to be addressed in
a more systematic way by aligning benefit levels with the realities of future revenues and demographics. Second,
the most destitute pensioners need to be better protected by rising minimum pension levels through adjustments to
the distribution of benefits. Finally, a medium-term strategy needs to be designed for introducing long overdue
comprehensive pension reforms over the next couple of years. In the case of the Federation, dealing with the third
challenge requires rapid progress in reintegration of the Federation pension system, without which in-depth pension
reform is impossible.
60.   In both Entities, pension funds determine the benefit levels in an ad-hoc manner with a short-term focus
(see para.57 above). While the present approach served as a means to bridge the pre- and post-war pension
systems, it is incompatible with the objective of achieving financial sustainability over the medium term. This can
only be achieved by redefining benefit rules so that promises will be aligned with projected resources. This
approach could be phased in gradually but should lead to a financial balance over a reasonable time period. In the
meantime, policies that might exacerbate the present situation must be avoided. For example, the recent tendency in
Republika Srpska to raise statutory benefit levels for current and future pensioners must be avoided; even at current
benefit levels, the system operates through significant budgetary transfers. Any adjustments to the benefits must be
validated by realistic projections about resource availability-the Republika Srpska authorities have asked the
World Bank to assist in this area under the proposed PFSAC II. In the case of the Federation, while the new
Federation pension legislation prevents the future accumulation of arrears, the benefit formula still needs to be
adjusted to reflect the realities of future resources. More importantly, introduction of a realistic benefit formula
must precede the merger of the two Federation funds to ensure the financial viability of the new, unified Federation
pension system.
61.    Given the low average pension and the significant number of low-level pensioners in both Entities, an
important short-term objective of pension policy must be to protect the most destitute pensioners. Achieving this
requires a temporary policy in which the lowest pensions are increased relatively more generously when revenues
are increased, until reaching a reasonable subsistence level. Giving higher priority to financing an adequate
minimum within the pension system has been a policy followed by many countries during times of severe financing
constraints. This approach should, in turn, compress the present wide range of pensions in both Entities and, hence,
result in more equitable distribution of limited pension revenues.
62.    Further pressures to pension finances would come from special military benefits in both Entities. In the
Federation, special lower contribution rates, along with a more generous benefit formula for the military has already
created financial strains. While the new Federation Pension Law envisages the development of financing modalities
for special military benefits through separate legislation, preparation of the legislation has been delayed A rapid
resolution of the financing issues for military is critically important for preventing cumulating financial imbalances
in the new Federation pension system. This can be done by calculating the additional liability caused by the special
benefits, and either earmarking revenues to cover them in a transparent manner and/or reducing the special benefits.
Several special benefit schemes for military also exist in Republika Srpska, where budgetary transfers provide
supplementary financing. The Government is considering expanding these schemes by providing special pension
benefits for veterans and their families. In order to improve the financial viability of the pension system, Republika
Srpska must also develop a financing strategy for special benefits and must avoid providing additional benefits for
veterans through the pension system. Finally, both Entities must refrain from providing contribution relief or
exemptions from pension contributions. In general, any special support program should be financed from available
revenues in a systematic and transparent manner.
63.    The decentralized state of public pension provision in the Federation presents another important challenge.
Advantages of economies of scale in administration and ease in labor mobility suggest a unified Federation pension
system to cover the relatively small Federation population. As indicated in para.58 the new Federation Pension
legislation establishes a timetable for drafting separate legislation that would resolve this difficult issue. As a first
15



step towards this end, a new Federation Pension Agency, consisting of representatives from both pension funds, was
established in January 1999 and assigned with the task of drafting this legislation by June 1999. The next step must
be implementation of a merger of the two funds by the end of 1999. This task involves introducing, alongside,
measures aimed at achieving fiscal sustainability and an adequate safety net described in paras. 60-62 above.
Finally, within the same timetable, it is also important to design a mechanism to retire all outstanding claims (e.g.,
unpaid contributions from enterprises and the military, as well as unpaid pensions) prior to the establishment of the
new, Federation-wide pension fund. The authorities have asked the World Bank to continue providing its assistance
in this area under the proposed PFSAC II.
tA4.   In thc medium term, more comprehensive pension reforms will have to be considered in BiH. Reform
options such as the introduction of privately managed pensions will have to be studied carefully. The governments
of both Entities have asked the World Bank to continue providing technical support in designing a comprehensive
pension reform. Such reform would, in due course, be supported by future structural adjustment operations.
Actions to be supported by PFSAC II
65.   The proposed operation will support the Entity govermments' efforts to design and implement pension
policies that will contribute to attaining fiscal sustainability, better targeting of the most vulnerable pensioners and
unification of pension policies and administration in the Federation. Continuing dialogue between the Entity
governments and the Bank is expected in both designing short-term pension policy and preparing medium-term
reform. Prior to Credit effectiveness, Entities will have prepared a report on actuarial projection of each Entities'
pension finances and distribution of pension income. In addition, the Federation Pension Agency will
have submitted to the Federation Government the draft legislation on the merger of the two pension fund. It is also
expected that both Entities will have initiated the actuarial estimate of additional cost of special benefits for the
military.
66.   Before the second tranche release, (i) the Republika Srpska Parliament will have adopted amendments to
pension legislation, defining both a new benefit formula and eligibility criteria conducive to a long run balance in
its pension finances; and (ii) the Federation Parliament will have enacted the legislation creating the new unified
Federation Pension Fund and introducing both a benefit formula and eligibility criteria conducive to a long run
balance in its pension finances. These pieces of legislation should be under implementationby the time of the third
tranche release. Additionally, it is also expected that by the time of the second tranche release: (i) explicit
financing and badgeting rules for special military benefits and contributions will have been developed and unviable
schemes will have been eliminated; (ii) adjustments to the benefit formula for provision of a reasonable minimum
benefit will have been made; and (iii) existing exemptions for social insurance contributions will have been
eliminated, and measures prohibiting provision of exemptions unless provided for by existing legislation will have
been taken. By the time of the third tranche release, both Entities are expected to have initiated their comprehensive
pension reform strategy. The technical assistance, which has been provided through previous operation and during
the preparation of this operation, will continue through implementation in all of the key areas presented above.
(ii) Reforming Veteran's Benefits and Other Social Protection Programs
Current Situation
67.   Bosnia and Herzegovina's pre-war social protection system was among the most sophisticated in Eastern
Europe. During the war, the system financially collapsed and fragmented across BiH and it largely remains so
today. In addition to the pension system, only veterans' benefits and a few other social programs, mainly providing
poverty relief, can be funded at present. Budgetary transfers for veterans' programs, and donor assistance for the
other programs, provide the main funding source. Social assistance programs are generally the responsibility of
cantons in the Federation, except for veterans' programs, for which the Federation shares financial responsibility.
In Republika Srpska, the structure is more centralized at the Entity level. In both Entities, municipal Centers for
Social Work (CSW) administer the implementation of programs that provide poverty relief, mainly by managing
16



foreign-financed programs, as domestically-financed programs are very limited. As with the other social sectors,
the system of social assistance today faces the dual challenge of overcoming low levels of financing capacity and
lack of an effective governance framework. Measures are now urgently required to improve the provision of social
assistance in both Entities and reintegrate the system in the Federation.
Issues and Plans in Reforming Veteran' Benefits and Other Social Protection Programs
68.    Reforming veteran's benefits prograsn. Over the last year, both Entities prepared legislation on their
respective veterans' benefits schemes, covering both war veterans and their families. The Republika Srpska enacted
its legislation while the Federation legislation awaits Parliamentary approval. The legislation of both Entities
reveals two major weaknesses. First, the incongruity between available resources and promised benefits are not
adequately addressed, a pattern likely to be reinforced by the indexation rules tying benefits to average wage
growth. The best way to address these problems is, as in the case of pensions, redefining benefit rules so that
promises will be aligned with projected resources; and tying benefit adjustments to the availability of resources.
Second, an overly complex schedule of benefits was created, with ten levels of disability including very minor
physical impairment. This adds to the administrative costs of the system and creates a very large beneficiary pool
into perpetuity. Furthermore, by including annual benefits for those with minor disabilities, the program also
reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for the seriously handicapped and their families. These
weakness could be addressed by a combination of policy measures, including reducing the number of benefit
categories; separating discrete, one-time compensation programs and permanent entitlement programs, e.g. paying
one-time benefits to those with minor disabilities; and improving targeting of resources to the neediest cases.
69.    The analysis necessary to design such policies, however, requires data and information on the number and
composition of beneficiaries in each Entity. Such data and information is not only limited but also not readily
available at present. As a first step towards addressing this critical issue, both Entities are currently gathering
existing data and information. Both are expecting to complete aggregation and analysis by May 1999. This must be
followed by the development of a more systematic data collection, analysis and monitoring capacity in both Entities
with the assistance from donors.
70.    Subsequently, an integraticn strategy must be developed for veterans' programs in the Federation, both on
the policy and the administrative level. This would help minimize the administrative costs associated with multiple
schemes in a small Entity, and resulting savings could be passed back to beneficiaries. It would also help
harmonize benefit levels across the Federation. The ongoing work towards unification of the pension system
constitutes a sound model to follow in developing such a strategy.
71.   Reforming other social protection programs. The development and institutionalization of a new social
protection system is urgently needed in BiH, where foreign humanitarian support-a major resource base since the
end of the war-has been gradually diminishing. The immediate challenge is to provide poverty relief during the
initial transition period, before in-depth reformn of the system is possible. This requires (i) improving targeting
methods to direct available resources to the most needy; and (ii) strengthening the existing institutional base for
more effective provision of poverty relief. It also involves identifying existing programs and beneficiary coverage
by consolidating the available information, which *is currently scattered because of local implementation of
programns. This process has already begun with the ongoing efforts to re-define the beneficiary identification card
for accessing CSW assistance and to link the databases between the CSW across each Entity.
72.    Further steps must be taken to provide the CSWs with adequate resources, both to run the most critical
assistance programs and to enable them to finance their basic administrative expenditures. At present, financing for
CSWs is primarily the responsibility of cantons in the Federation and the municipalities in Republika Srpska. This
creates a potential for translating current large differences in local fiscal resources into large differentials in the
provision of social assistance especially in places where foreign assistance is relatively limited. Given the
extremely tight domestic finances in both Entities, in the near term, such pressures could be contained only by (i)
17



continued strong donor assistance; and (ii) collaborative efforts of the donors and the authorities to direct available
resources to places with lowest social assistance capacity.
73.   A permanent approach for addressing present weaknesses in financing and governance capacity will,
however, need to be urgently developed before the humanitarian assistance is phased out. In order to provide a
sound basis for this exercise, a comprehensive poverty analysis, built on a household income and expenditure
surveys, will have to be undertaken. Key decisions will have to be made on the target level of social assistance,
criteria for eligibility etc. and other policies with fiscal implications. Critical choices will also have to be made
regarding both the administrative structure and the financing modalities of the new system. In making these
choices, efficiency and equity issues will have to be properly addressed in the Federation. The Statistics Institutes in
both Entities recognizes the importance of household survey research and considers initiating the survey work with
the assistance from donors including the Bank. Subsequently, in light of the survey results, the Entities are
considering to review and revise the ongoing work. to develop legislative framework for the social assistance
strategy.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC II
74.   The proposed operation will support the Entity governments in designing and implementing an affordable
social protection strategy, with an emphasis on targeting the most destitute groups. Continuing dialogue between
the governments and the Bank is expected in designing short-term social protection policy and in preparation for
medium-term reform. Such medium-term reform efforts would, in due course, be supported by future structural
adjustment operations. Prior to the second tranche release, both Entity Governments will have submitted to the
Bank a comprehensive analysis of beneficiaries for their respective veteran's programs. It is also expected that the
preparation of the household income and expenditure surveys be initiated in both Entities.
D. Reforming the Budgetary Management System
Current Situation
75.   During 1998, both Entities have made significant progress in both establishing the legal basis for the budget
process and in strengthening basic budget procedures and organizational structures. The new Entity laws on the
"Principles of the Budget" have been adopted, which codifies the set of budget reforms supported under the first
PFSAC. The coverage and comprehensiveness of the budgets have been extended by including external cash
grants, general budgetary borrowing and related expenditures into the budget. Necessary provisions have been
included in the new budget laws thereby extending this system to incorporate capital budgets, including externally
financed projects. Initial general frameworks have been adopted to govern domestic and external local government
borrowing. Significant progress has been made towards introducing new and improved budget classification
systems which creates uniform standards across central and local governments and initiates comprehensive
expenditure reporting. Accounting systems have been improved, including adoption of a regulatory framework for
commitments reporting. New procurement regulations have been adopted to establish a system that promotes open
competition and transparency. Furthermore, an agreement has been reached to establish treasury systems as part of
the overall payment system reform.
76.   Despite these substantial achievements, much remains to be done in both Entities to consolidate well
functioning budget systems that can carry out the main budgeting functions of aggregate fiscal discipline, strategic
resource allocation and efficient resource use. The Bosnian authorities recognize these shortcomings, and intend to
address them through continued reform of the budgetary processes and institutions.
Issues and Plans in Reforming the Budget Management
77.   Further progress in reform of budgetary processes is essential for developing a comprehensive budgetary
strategy that will contribute to more efficient budget planning and execution systems in BiH. Once established,.this
18



system would also further improve transparency and accountability in government policies and strategies. The most
urgent reforms in order to improve the budget planning are: (i) introducing strategic budget preparation; (ii)
reintegrating recurrent and capital budgets; and (iii) strengthening institutional capacity. In addition, each
government should establish a treasury department to ensure better budget execution, better control as well as better
evaluation of budget outcomes.
78.   Reform of Budget Planning Processes. There are three major weaknesses in the existing processes for
budget preparation. First, the linkage between budgets and government policies and strategies is not strong.
Second, the donor-financed investment program, a relatively large portion of the total public resource envelope in
BiH, is separated from the remainder of the budget. Third, the medium-term perspective in the planning of
government expenditure programs is weak. Consequently, the government has very little capacity to develop both
expenditure policies and priorities consistent with resource constraints and, more generally, with a macroeconomic
framework within which the budget operates. This shortcoming is demonstrated by existing budgeting practices,
whereby line ministries submit budget estimates that are considerably in excess of available resources; the
subsequent cutbacks during the allocation process negate much of the initial budget preparation work. More
importantly, the lack of capacity to set the appropriate balance between capital spending and recurrent spending
undermines not only the government's ability to meet operations and maintenance costs but also its ability to
maintain fiscal stability once donor assistance is phased out. In the Federation, the highly decentralized local
structure poses additional problems in linking resource allocations to broader Entity level policies, in ensuring an
equitable distribution of public sector resources, and in establishing a clear rationale for the distribution of aid
financing.
79.    Systemic weaknesses in budget planning are reinforced by institutional deficiencies in both Entities. In
each Entity, the MoF currently has a very limited economic policy and forecasting role; responsibility for external
aid is located outside of the MoF. Policy and programming capacities within line ministries are poorly developed,
and where they do exist, they tend to be located in donor-supported project implementation units (PIUs), or
specialized institutes. Finally, in the Federation, relationships between the respective Federation and cantonal line
ministries remain unclear, and co-ordination between the two in budget planning is weak.
80.   Addressing the weaknesses in budgetary planning in BiH will, therefore, require developing a two-pronged
strategy. The first part involves developing a comprehensive budget strategy, consistent with government's
macroeconomic and sectoral policies and integrating capital and recurrent budgets. To this end, a medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF), supportive of such an integrated approach to budgetary planing, must be
developed. The second part involves strengthening the institutional capacity and establishing a cooperative
approach for budget planing. This entails, consolidating and developing core expenditure planning functions within
the MoFs; developing sector-wide policy and programming functions within the line ministries; and establishing
working groups involving representatives of relevant institutions. Under the proposed Credit, an agreement on the
framework of budgetary reforms in these areas has been reached, and preliminary work has been initiated by both
Entities.
81.   The new system for budget planing and preparation would work as follows. There will be three building
blocks of the MTEF. The first one is the macroeconomic framework, which would provide the basis for projecting
resource base and expenditure allocations as well as the context against which key budget issues could be analyzed.
Initially, it would be based on the IMF/World Bank framework. In time, as the economic forecast and analysis
capacity within the MoFs is built up, it would increasingly reflect the MoFs' own analysis. The second building
block is the sector strategy framework, which would establish overall government policy objectives for the sect6r as
well as strategic program areas and financing requirements within the sector, consistent with overall govermnent
resource constraints. This would, in turn, help determine the strategic shifts in inter-sectoral resource allocations
and provide the basis for monitoring and evaluating sector program outcomes. The third building block would be
sectoral expenditure plans, covering both recurrent and investmnent allocations and the related financing. Initially,
this would require a major exercise to incorporate externally financed projects within the Entity budgets. In the
19



Federation, the MTEF would also incorporate cantonal expenditure plans, with an emphasis on enhancing the
linkages between cantonal expenditure plans and the Federation-wide sector strategies and the macroeconomic
framework.
82.   The time horizon for the MTEF will be three years, within which the MTEF would be revised and "rolled
forward" each year. The MTEF will be prepared during the first half of the year in the forn of a "Budget
Framework Paper" (BFP); it will be approved by the respective Entity Cabinets. The BFP will then provide the
strategic framework and resource ceilings for the subsequent preparation of the annual Budget. With the assistance
from the World Bank, the Entities have already initiated the work towards preparation of the first BFP. To facilitate
this, each Entity has established both a BFP Working Group and Sector Working Groups (SWG). Initially, the
SWGs was formed for a limited number of pilot sectors (including health, education and transport in the Federation,
and transport, education, and agriculture in Republika Srpska) which will be the focus of the initial BFP. Both
Entities plan to finalize their respective draft BFPs for submission to their Cabinets by June 1999. The Entities also
initiated work towards integrating externally financed public expenditures into the BFP and the budgets. Finally, as
a first step towards strengthening economic policy and analysis capacity in their respective MoFs, both Entities
intend to establish a macroeconomic forecasting unit within the MoF.
83.   Reform of Budget Execution Systems. Establishing a treasury system at both State and the Entity levels is
the single most urgent reform for improving budget execution in BiH. Under the present system, the Entity
payment bureaus undertake a treasury-like function independently of the MoFs. Consequently, the MoFs have very
weak financial planning and control capacity. There is also very little cash management, and the execution of the
State and the Entity budgets largely follows the annual plans with substantial revisions during the course of the year.
The treasury, when established, will maintain the exclusive authority for transfer and spending, and hence, it will
substantially improve budget control and cash management capacity at all levels of government.
84.   In the face of the ongoing efforts to abolish, by the end of 2000, the payments bureau system in BiH, the
Bosnian authorities recognize the need for rapid progress towards establishing the treasury system. The Entity
budget system laws provide the legal basis for the establishment of the treasury system. The initial modeling work
towards the establishment of the State Treasury System began in 1998 with the assistance from the IMF and the US
Treasury; the Entities are now considering initiating a similar process with the assistance from the World Bank, IMF
and the US Treasury. To achieve this, all three governments are intending to complete, by early 2000, the transfer
of accounts to the Treasury Ledger for all budget institutions, prepare the centralized payments system and Treasury
Single Account, develop the system of commitment reporting, and complete staffing of the treasury department for
operation starting mid-2000.
Actions to be Supported Under PFSAC n
85.   The proposed operation will support the design and implementation of MTEF and Treasury systems to
support a better integrated, better managed, more transparent and more accountable system of public financial
management in BiH. During the period of PFSAC II implementation, the program will focus on the following: (i)
improving the preparation process and strategic orientation of the Entity budgets by preparing an initial BFP as a
basis for the year 2000 annual budget; (ii) imnproving the budget coverage by incorporating externally financed
public sector expenditures into the BFP and the budget; (iii) establishing the institutional framework for the
development of a medium term budget planning process; and (iv) initiating the design of an appropriate treasury
system for the Entities. In this context, by Board presentation, both Entities will have established the BFP Working
Group to co-ordinate the preparation of the initial BFP and will have drafted the initial BFP. In addition, it is
expected that establishment of Sector Working Groups for undertaking sector reviews and preparing sector strategy
framneworks be initiated in both Entities.
86.   By the time of the second tranche release, both Entities will have (i) incorporated capital projects in the
year 2000 budget plans, including those which are externally funded; (ii) established macroeconomic fiscal analysis
andforecasting units in their respective MoFs; and (iii) finalized the initial BFP and obtained approvalfrom their
20



respective Cabinets. By the time of the third tranche release, (i) both Entities will have adopted a strategy and
timetable to integrate external aid management ffnctions; (ii) both Entities will have revised the BFP to guide the
year 2001 budget and submitted it to their respective Cabinets; and (iii) the State and the Entities will have begun
operating with Single Treasury Account and manage budget execution through Treasury Ledger Account.
87.    Thereafter, implementation of budget reform should be continued in the following areas: (i) further
strengthening of policy and programming capacities in the MoF and the line ministries for systemic preparation of a
three year BFP; (ii) extending sector policy and strategy reviews to all sectors and developing sector strategy
frameworks; (iii) strengthening the State and the Entity treasury systems. The technical assistance provided through
previous operation and during the preparation of this operation will continue through implementation. Continued
reforms to consolidate and broaden the proposed PFSAC II program would, in due course, be supported by future
structural adjustment operations.
E. Establishing Auditing Procedures and Institutions
Current Situation
88.    The existing public sector institutional framework in Bosnia and Herzegovina lacks an audit function. As a
result, there is no comprehensive system to promote transparency and accountability in public sector performance
and provide legislative bodies with the necessary infornation to exercise control over the executive. To address this
problem, the first PFSAC program supported the establishment of external auditing institutions as one key reform
element in strengthening both public finances and the performance of the public sector in the country. Following
extensive discussions with govermment authorities at all levels, the initial work focused on the development of
appropriate government audit models. This phase was concluded at the end of 1998, resulting in a proposal on the
organizational and functional framework of the external audit system. It was also uniformly agreed that
International Association of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) standards form the basis for the audit system in
Bosnia and Herzegovina. Building on the initial proposal, the Bosnian authorities are now considering completing
the design of the audit system and establishing the organization structure before the end of 1999. The authorities
have asked the World Bank to continue providing assistance under the proposed PFSAC II.
89.   In addition to the external audit functions, there is a need to strengthen the internal audit functions in both
Entities and at the State level. Currently, each of the two Entities MoFs has an Inspection Unit, which possesses the
functions of internal control. In addition, the Entity payments bureaus undertake a quasi-audit in review of their
respective transactions. A more systematic and harmonized approach is needed in order to establish effective
internal audit procedures. This will enable government agencies to exercise managerial control within their
organizations and to prepare analysis and reports to management on their systems, practices and organization, as
well as compliance with budgetary and accounting requirements.
Issues and Plans for Instituting Auditing Procedures and Practices
90.   Institutionalizing exdernal auditing. The most critical aspect in designing an external audit system in BiH
was to determine a feasible organizational structure that would enable several layers of largely autonomous
governments to undertake sound audit functions within their jurisdictions while at the same time ensuring
consistency of standards, methodology and quality across all levels of govermment. The Bosnian authorities have
recently agreed on an organizational structure that would meet these requirements. This entails: (i) establishing a
Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) in each Entity and at the State level for carrying out external audit functions of
respective central and local government activities and organizations; (ii) establishing a National Coordinating
Committee (NCC), comprising the State and Entity Auditor-Generals, for setting audit standards, for ensuring
consistency of standards, methodology and quality, for assigning audit responsibility for activities that extend across
the Entities and/or the State, and for determining representation on international bodies. The NCC will be chaired
by the State Auditor-General and meet according to a fixed schedule on at least a quarterly basis; (iii) appointing the
State and the Entity Auditor-Generals through a Parliamentary act for a fixed and non-renewable term. In March,
21



the authorities initiated the process of establishing the SAIs by forming a Working Group comprising the
representatives of the State and the Entities, including cantons in the Federation. The group, with the World Bank
assistance, is responsible for the various steps leading to the creation of th,e SAIs, starting with the preparation of the
legal framework.
91.    The objective of the external audit in both Entities and the State will be to carry out (i) compliance audit tG
ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements have been met, or report any failures; (ii) certification audit in the
form of a report on the financial statements, and (iii) performance audit (value for money) to measure the
performance of individual public institutions with regard to efficiency, economy and effectiveness. The external
audit by the SAIs will embrace all government activities and organizations that are partially or wholly owned,
controlled or funded by public sources or that are provided by an external organization on loan or grant basis. As is
true elsewhere, maintaining independence and ensuring operational integrity are key to effective operation of SAIs.
To prevent political or other unwanted interference, SAIs will be constitutional bodies reporting on their activities to
their respective Parliaments at the State, Entity and Canton levels. However, due to relatively longer process of
amending the constitution, they will commence operation under legislation for a transitional period. Their budgets
will be charged items on respective government budgets. In the case of the Federation, the cantons will also
contribute to the cost of the Federation SAI, on the basis of a fee determined by the size of audit work to be
performed on their behalf. The authorities expect each SAI to prepare the first audit reports before the end of 1999.
92.   Institutionalizing internal auditing  In conjunction with the ongoing work to develop extemnal auditing
system, there is a need to institutionalize internal auditing at all levels of government. The best approach would be
to start this process within the Entity Ministries of Finances, including cantons in the Federation, and then to
gradually expand it into other public institutions and the State Ministry of Finance once it is established. This could
be most efficiently done by re-organizing the existing Inspection Units with internal control functions, as Internal
Audit Units with proper internal auditing capacity reporting to the Minister of Finance. The new Entity organic
budget laws provide the Ministers of Finance with such legal authority by giving them responsibility for the
accounting and supervision of revenues and expenditures. The same applies to the canton Ministers of Finance in
the Federation. In the initial stage, the Internal Audit Units must be responsible, at a minimum, for compliance audit
to improve the control and management of budgetary expenditures. Gradually, internal auditing must be broadened
to include operational efficiency and effectiveness. In the process of developing the external and internal auditing
function, special attention must be given to ensure that the two functions would reinforce, rather than duplicate,
each other. The Entities intend to follow the above presented strategy to bring the work on the internal auditing up
to comparable speed with that of the external auditing.
Actions to be supported by the PFSAC H
93.    The proposed operation will support the development of a strong auditing capacity in BiH. As an initial
step in this direction, prior to Credit effectiveness, the State, the Federation and Republika Srpska will have (i)
submitted draft legislative framework and budgets for their SAIs to their Parliaments; and (ii) appointed their
Acting Auditor-Generals. The legislative framework and budgets will be adopted by the State and Entity
Parliaments by the time of the second tranche release and will be under implementation by the time of the third
tranche release. In addition, by the time of the second tranche release, the State and the Entity Parliaments will
have appointed Auditor-Generals for their SAls. It is also expected that during this timetable, the authorities will (i)
prepare and process necessary amendments for establishing SAIs as constitutional bodies during 2000; and (ii)
introduce necessary measures to strengthen the regularity and institutional framework for internal auditing.
94.    The Bank has been providing technical assistance to support the authorities in their efforts and will continue
this assistance under the PFSAC II. It is also expected that parallel, donor-financed assistance will be provided
during PFSAC II implementation, particularly to support the establishment and operationalization of the SAIs. The
technical assistance will (i) assist and advise the SAls in developing planning capabilities, designing audit systems
and strengthening operational effectiveness; (ii) support the SAIs in the development of software tools, procurement
22



of office equipment, and formal and on the job training of staff; and (iii) assist the State and the Entity governments
in strengthening the regulatory and institutional framework for internal auditing.
F. Strengthening Debt Management Capacity
Current Situation
95.   During 1998, Bosnia and Herzegovina made significant progress towards building its public debt
management structure, which was supported by the World Bank through the first PFSAC. The Entity Laws on
external debt, consistent with each other and with the State Law on External Debt, were adopted by both Entities.
Debt management units (DMU) were established in the State Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
(MFTER), as well as in each of the two Entities' MOF's. The London Club and Paris Club Agreements on the
rescheduling of BiH's external debt to commercial banks and official creditors, respectively, were concluded,
thereby wiping out a large part of the debt inherited from the SFRY. An automatic and transparent debt servicing
system was established, substantially improving the regularity of debt service payments; a comprehensive foreign
debt tracking system was established in the State MFTER. A Protocol on information sharing between the State, the
Entities and CBBH was signed by the four parties to regularize and streamline the exchange of debt-related
information between various debt management agencies. An Agent Agreement was signed between the State
MFTER and the CBBH that acts as the debt servicing agent of the State. Furthermore, in the Federation, progress
was achieved in building the capacity of Entity MOFs and commercial banks to manage the credit riskarising from
different forms of borrowing, with extensive assistance from international donors.
96.   Both Entities made their first steps to regulate the sub-Entity borrowing, whereby local governments are
allowed to borrow only externally for investment purposes within a certain limit. At present, however, few local
governments and municipalities have the technical and fiscal capacity to carry the debt burden; neither the State nor
the Entities possess mechanisms to monitor and supervise borrowing at the lower levels of government. To date,
few local governments have contracted any external borrowings. The present time is opportune for establishing a
comprehensive debt tracking system in the BiH to foster fiscal discipline.
Issues and Plans for Strengthening Debt Management Capacity
97.   The borrowing activity in BiH is currently low due to severely limited financing capacity; a large
proportion of the reconstruction needs continue to be financed by international aid flows. In the medium-term,
however, as aid-flows and concessional financing diminishes, alternative sources of external finance, including
borrowing from capital markets, will be a more significant option in financing the reconstruction and development
needs. BiH's access to such external financing will be determined, to a large extent, by the effectiveness and the
prudence of its borrowing arrangements. Developing a strong external debt management capacity, therefore,
remains to be an important challenge for the Bosnian authorities. This requires continued improvements to the
institutional setup and reforms to strengthen both borrowing policies and policy coordination between governments,
including the development of a policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing.
98.   As mentioned above, substantial progress was made during 1998 in creating the legal and institutional setup
for external debt management. Further steps must now be taken to develop policy-making, credit-analysis and
monitoring functions in the State and Entity DMUs that would promote fiscally prudent borrowing operations. This
includes broadening Entity DMU's mandate to manage their debt portfolio, not merely to execute debt service
transactions. They must be able to track and control borrowing by lower levels of government and enterprises and
evaluate sub-Entity debt for its sustainability. It also includes broadening information sharing and policy co-
ordination arrangements between the State and the Entities to improve the quality and the coverage of the
information used for sovereign decision-making. To develop a co-ordinated approach in addressing these issues,
both the State and the Entities intend to develop "Guidelines" for public sector borrowing building on the present
legislative framework. The Guidelines will establish (i) a comprehensive debt reporting system; (ii) strong and
transparent selection, budgeting and supervision procedures for loans and guarantees; and (iii) procedures for
23



borrowing policy coordination. The authorities have asked the World Bank to continue providing its assistance in
this undertaking under the proposed PFSAC II.
99.   Reporting procedures are already well established for State and Entity borrowing. These must be extended
to cover debt liabilities of sub-Entity governments, public enterprises, and utilities as well as liabilities of public
agencies that have separate budgets such as social security funds. As the first step in this direction, debt databases
must be created in each Entities' MoF's (in DMU's) and compulsory reporting procedures must be introduced for
all public sector borrowing. The Entity MoF's must share such data with the State MFTER. For comprehensive
debt reporting, the CBBH must also establish a similar database and reporting procedures for private sector debts.
Debt data reconciliation should be regularly conducted between the State MFTER and CBBH. Once the State and
Entity Treasuries are created, such reporting flows could be streamlined thereby simplifying data reconciliation.
100.  The Guidelines must enforce ceilings on the amount of annual borrowing allowed by a sub-Entity
government as specified in the Entity Budget System Laws. To this end, the guidelines must establish (i) reporting
requirements with sufficient detail on terms and purpose of loans to enable the authorities to prepare reliable debt
service projections and to control the fiscal risk; (ii) budgeting procedures that will allow for tracking the real value
of obligations outstanding; (iii) monitoring criteria that will help track the utilization of loan proceeds and the
progress of the project. They should also include transparent appraisal and approval procedures in order to prevent
instances of connected borrowing (sub-Entity borrowing from the commercial banks that they either own or control)
and market loans (short-term sub-Entity borrowing from local commercial banks, usually for liquidity management
purposes, often with extensions of maturity). Finally, the guidelines must establish clear procedures for the issuance
of State and Entity guarantees concerning external borrowing of sub-Entity governments and enterprises (as allowed
by the existing legislation) while prohibiting the issuance of guarantees by sub-Entity governments for certain
duration.
101.  Furthermore, policy-coordination needs to be strengthened between the State and the Entity DMU's in
order to harmonize borrowing plans with the country's ability to service its external debt. The separation of
borrowing, debt servicing responsibility, and fiscal authority in BiH creates potential for a free riderproblem. As a
result, irresponsible or mistaken borrowing decisions on the part of Entity or sub-Entity governments as well as
public agencies, may jeopardize the borrowing ability not only of the Entity concerned, but the other Entity and the
State.  Coordination of borrowing strategies would limit the free rider problem  and, hence, enhance the
creditworthiness of all borrowers, both public and private. The State Debt Law provides for the establishment of a
high-level Debt Advisory Committee, with representation from all State and Entity agencies involved in managing
external debt of BiH. For this purpose, the Interagency Working Group--originally constituted to ensure the
consistency and transparency of debt information--should gradually assume the functions of piloting the country's
debt strategy.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC II
102.  The proposed operation will support the authorities' efforts in strengthening the countrywide debt
management capacity by (i) assisting the DMU's in further clarifying their mandates in debt monitoring and policy
formulation; (ii) supporting the introduction of comprehensive reporting and consistent data reconciliation
procedures; and (iii) assisting and advising the Bosnian authorities in developing and implementing Guidelines for
prudent borrowing operations and policy co-ordination. By the time of the third tranche release, the State and the
Entities will have initiated the implementation of the Guidelines. The technical assistance, which has been provided
both through the previous operation and during the preparation of this operation, will continue through
implementation.
24



V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
103.  The Bank Group's assistance strategy for FY98/99--as outlined in both the Country Assistance Strategy
dated July 31, 1997 and the progress report dated August 6, 1998--aims to assist BiH in moving from immediate
postwar reconstruction towards sustainable recovery and growth. The key objectives of this strategy are:
(i) strengthening the institutions of macroeconomic management; (ii)initiating structural reform measures,
particularly in privatization and banking reforms; and (iii) carrying forward physical reconstruction of the country.
104.  Particular emphasis will be placed on support for developing economic institutions and policies. Key
among these efforts are reforms in fiscal management, including, inter alia, rationalization in the assignment of
revenue and expenditure responsibilities, sound budget and external debt management, improved transparency and
accountability in the use of public sector resources and the establishment of a sustainable social assistance
framework for the most vulnerable. As noted in the CAS, the FY98/99 program includes two public finance reform
operations. The proposed PFSAC II is the second of these two operations. The first operation, PFSAC, was
successfully implemented, and its second and final tranche disbursed in December 1998. The PFSAC II is
designed to help BiH deepen and expand the reform measures in public financial management initiated under the
PFSAC.
B. Credit Amount and Borrower
105.  The proposed IDA credit, in an amount equivalent to US$72 million (SDR 53.2 million), will be bnt to
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State) for a period of 35 years, including a 10-year grace period, on standard IDA
terrns. The State will onlend, through subsidiary agreements, US$42million equivalent of the Credit proceeds to
the Federation and US$30 million equivalent of the Credit proceeds to Republika Srpska, on the same terms as the
IDA Credit. The beneficiaries would be Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State), the Federation and Republika Srpska.
Co-financing on grant terms is expected to be offered by the Government of Netherlands. Funding for technical
assistance required for the preparation of this operation is being provided through two PHRD grants.
C. Credit Design
106.  The proposed Credit would provide quick-disbursing funds for fiscal and balance of payments assistance in
support of the government's efforts to reform public finance institutions and policies. The main elements of the
program supported by this operation include: (i) broadening tax policy hannonization and strengthening
administrative co-operation between the Entities to enhance revenue capacity and to encourage free flow of goods
across BiH; (ii) improving revenue and expenditure assignments within the Entities to prevent large differentials in
the provision of public services; (iii) initiating reforms to develop an affordable, efficient, and equitable social safety
net; (iv) developing a comprehensive budgetary strategy aimed at improving fiscal efficiency and control; (v)
establishing audit institutions and procedures to improve transparency and accountability in public sector
operations; and (vi) strengthening country-wide policy coordination in external debt management, including
developing a policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing. In view of the critical importance of establishing a
functioning fiscal system for the entire country, this operation puts its main emphasis on assisting the Bosnian
authorities to harmonize policies, and to strengthen policy co-ordination both within, and between the Entities as
well as between the State and the Entities. Conditionality (as specified in section F below) is mostly linked to
intergovernmental financial relations, the tax system, budgetary management and institutional aspects required for
the functioning of the country as a unified State. Other substantive reforms discussed in the previous sections,
particularly regarding the social safety net, are clearly important for the operation of an efficient public finance
system in the longer term.  The Bank intends to support these reforms through future structural adjustment
operations.
25



D. Administrative Arrangements
107.  The State MFTER is responsible for overall administration of the Credit on behalf of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the borrower. Each Entity's Ministry of Finance is responsible for administering the pre-allocated
amount of funds of the Credit. Based on discussions with government authorities, it is understood that the
counterpart funds of the proposed Credit would be used to support fiscal expenditures of the State and Entity
governments, in particular, contributions of the Entities to the 1999-00 State budget for debt service obligations,
essential social expenditures such as pension payments, and minimum income support, as well as costs related to
institution-building efforts in the areas of budget management, external audit, tax administration and health finance.
E. Disbursement
108.  The Credit will be disbursed in three tranches to the deposit account of the State at the Central Bank of
Bosnia and Herzegovina (CBBH). The entire amount of all three disbursements will be transferred from the State's
Deposit Account to the budgetary accounts of the Entities in the CBBH. The first tranche (US$28million
equivalent, with a Federation share of US$16 million and a Republika Srpska share of US$12million) would be
available upon Credit effectiveness. The second tranche (US$24 million equivalent, with a Federation share of
US$14 million, and a Republika Srpska share of US$10 million) and the third tranche (US$20 million equivalent,
with a Federation share of US$12 million, and a Republika Srpska share of US$8 million, respectively) would be
available upon satisfactory review by IDA of the implementation of the adjusttnent program as a whole and the
fulfillment of the specific second and third tranche conditions as described in the following section.
F. Monitoring Arrangements and Tranche Release Conditions
109.  Implementation of the policy program will be monitored by a Committee composed of the representatives
of the State MI TER and the Entity Ministries of Finance. With input from participating ministries/institutions, the
Committee will have responsibility for monitoring and evaluating progres.- mider the various components of the
program. IDA will monitor implementation with the help of the Committee's reports, and through supervision
missions. Specific conditions for Board presentation of the Credit, Credit effectiveness and second and third
tranche release of the Credit are presented below and in the policy matrix in Annex I.
(i) Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policies and Coordinating Tax Collection
Board Presentation
a) Entities to implement the State-set tariff surcharges.
b) Entities to eliminate special trade agreements with Croatia and Yugoslavia.
c) Entities to equalize the excise tax rates on domestic and imported goods.
d) Entities to establish a Working Group to develop a plan for coordination between the two tax
administrations.
Second Tranche Release
a) Entities to complete the harmonization of the sales tax systems by reducing differences in sales tax rates.
b) Entities to submit to their Parliaments amendments to their sales and excise tax legislation on inter-Entity
allocation of the sales tax on excisable goods and excise taxes.
c) Entities to adopt a plan to strengthen the coordination between their Tax Administrations, including an
information sharing system.
Third Tranche Release
a) Entities to implement new legislation on inter-Entity allocation of sales and excise taxes.
b) Entities to implement new arrangements for administrative co-ordination, including an information sharing
system.
26



(ii) Reforming the Intergovernmental Finances within the Entities
Board Presentation
a) Entities to eliminate existing tax relief and exemptions with a specific expiration date, unless provided for
under their respective tax legislation or by international treaties and including those exemptions granted to
duty-free shops, by allowing them to expire at the end of their current term.
Second Tranche Release
a) Entities to eliminate all tax and duty exemptions without a specified expiration date and that are not provided
for under their respective tax legislation or by international treaties, and to adopt measures to effectively
control duty-free shops and ensure that transactions at such establishments are limited to authorized persons.
b) Federation to adopt amendments to its tax legislation to improve collection and allocation of sales tax on
excisable goods between the cantons.
c) Republika Srpska to develop and adopt guidelines to improve administrative efficiency in health service
delivery and the collection of health contributions.
d) Federation to establish cantonal health insurance funds and adopt service responsibilities and financing
sources for the Federation Health Insurance Fund.
Third Tranche Release
a) Federation to implement the new collection and allocation system for sales tax on excisable goods between
the cantons.
b) Federation Government to adopt amendments to the Law on Health Care regarding service responsibilities
and financing sources for the Federation Health Insurance Fund.
(iii) Reform of Social Safety Net
Credit Effectiveness
a) Entities to prepare a report on actuarial projection of their pension finances and their pension income
distribution.
b) The Federation Pension Agency to submit to the Federation Government the draft legislation on the merger
of the two pension funds.
Second Tranche Release
a) Republika Srpska to adopt amendments to pension legislation on benefit forrnula and eligibility criteria.
b) Federation to adopt amendments to pension legislation on the financial and administrative unification of the
Federation Pension Fund and new benefit formula and eligibility criteria.
c) Entities to submit to the Bank a comprehensive analysis of beneficiaries for their veteran's programs.
Third Tranche Release
a) Federation to implement amendments to its pension legislation.
b) Republika Srpska to implement amendments to its pension legislation
(iv) Reforming the Budgetary Management System
Board Presentation
a) Entities to establish the BFP Working Group to co-ordinate the preparation of the BFP and to draft the initial
BFP.
Second Tranche Release
a) Entities to incorporate capital projects in the year 2000 budget plans including those which are externally
funded.
b) Entities to establish macroeconomic analysis and forecasting units in their respective MoFs.
c) Entities to complete the initial BFP and to obtain approval from their Cabinets.
Third Tranche Release
a) Entities to adopt a strategy and timetable to integrate their external aid management function.
27



b) Entities to revise the BFP, to guide the year 2001 budget, and to submit it to their Cabinets.
c) Entities and State to operate with Single Treasury Account and manage budget execution through Treasury
Ledger Account.
(v) Establishing Auditing Procedures and Institutions
Credit Effectiveness
a) State and Entities to submit draft legislative framework and budgets for their SAIs to their Parliaments.
b) State and Entities to appoint their respective Acting Auditor-Generals.
Second Tranche Release
a) State and Entities to adopt the legislative framework and budgets for their SAIs.
b) State and the Entity Parliaments to appoint Auditor-Generals for their SAIs.
Third Tranche Release
a) State and Entities to operationalize their SAIs.
(vi) Strengthening Debt Management Capacity
Third Tranche Release
a) State and Entities to implement Guidelines goveming public sector borrowing and policy co-ordination.
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements
110.  In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD4.01, Annex E),
the proposed operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
H. Benefits and Risks
111.  Benefits. The implementation of the proposed operation will help BiH consolidate the public finance
reforms began under the PFSAC, substantially strengthen prospects for continued fiscal stability, enhance
sustainability of the structural reform process, and reintegrate the economy. The reform program will promote free
flow of goods between the Entities and improve tax revenue collection by completing harmonization of major tax
structures, strengthening administrative co-operation and revenue distribution. It will facilitate development of a
more robust intergovernmental system, which is supportive of the Entities' stabilization and structural reforms and
which will improve efficiency and coverage of public sector services. By pursuing essential policy and institutional
reforms in budget planning and execution, the operation will help the Entities correct the medium-term imbalance
between revenues and expenditures and set appropriate priorities for public outlays. The proposed reform program
will also improve medium-term financial viability and targeting of the pension system, initiate design of an
equitable and sustainable social safety net system, and ensure a certain level of equalization in the provision of
health services through development of an efficient health insurance system in both Entities. By instituting sound
auditing procedures, it will significantly enhance transparency, efficiency and accountability of public service
operations.
112.  Establishment of an effective and integrated public finance structure will help BiH conduct sound
macroeconomic management, reduce cost to economic transactions, and achieve external creditworthiness. By
supporting the development of a public sector which is more suitable to a market economy, the operation will also
contribute to private sector development, employment creation and poverty reduction.
113.  Risks. The Credit faces two major risks. First, there will be risks associated with BiH's process of
reconciliation, as has been demonstrated so far since the signing of the Dayton Accords in December 1995. Several
measures supported by the proposed Credit are subject to intense political debate within the country-and, more
particularly, between the different ethnic groups-thus creating a potential for non-implementation of the agreed
measures and/or reversal of the adopted reforms. Particular among them are the harmonization of the Entity tax
policies, pension reform in the Entities, especially unification of the Federation pension funds, and reform of
28



intergovernmental financial relations, particularly in the Federation. To mitigate these risks, the Bank requires the
upfront fulfillment of conditionalities whenever possible and will work closely with the IMF, the US Treasury and
others to jointly promote the implementation of the reform agenda. The Bank also agreed with the BiH
governments to set up working groups on key reform areas and maintain close co-ordination with the existing ones
to promote consensus. The Bosnian authorities' strong commitment and success in implementation of equally
difficult set of policy measures under the first operation has shown that obstacles created by low political tolerance
can actually be mitigated.
114.  A second risk is that the Government's administrative and institutional capacity will be insufficient to
handle the complexity of the budgetary and auditing reform actions envisaged in the PFSAC II. The
Government is cognizant of this risk, and its program is designed to minimize its administrative burden, by
appropriate phasing of the measures and application of the technical assistance where needed. Certain essential
technical assistance activities have already been financed by PHRD grants. The bulk of the technical assistance
requirements would have to be carried through grant financed TA programs and/or parallel donor financed TA to
augment the limited local capacities.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
115.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1999
29



SCHEDULE A
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
1. Time taken to prepare:         three months
2. Project prepared by:            Government with IDA assistance
3. Identification Mission:         November 1998
4. Preparation Mission             January/February 1999
5. Appraisal Mission:              April 1999
6. Negotiations:                   May 1999
7. Planned Board Presentation:     June 1999
8. Planned Effectiveness:          July 1999
9. Expected Project Completion:    Not applicable
10. Relevant SAR:                 Not applicable
30



SCHEDULE B
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a'
(As of May 24,1999)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                     (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year        Borrower                          Project                       Loan Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD O
4038-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan A                      28.6      0.0
4039-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan B                     284.9      0.0
4040-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan C                     307.1      0.0
Total                                          620.6      0.0
Of Which: Repaid                          24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:               595.7
TFBH' (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Recovery Credit                 45.0       0.0
TF-024031 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Farm Reconstrucbon               20.0      0.0
TF-024032 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Water Supply                    20.0       0.0
TF-024033 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Transport                       35.0       1.8
TF-024034 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency District Heating                20.0       0.0
TF-024035 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0      0.0
TF-024040 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Education Reconstruction          5.0      0.0
Total                                          150.0       1.8
IDA
2897-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Educabon Reconstruction           5.0      0.0
2896-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Vicbms Rehabilitation         5.0      2.6
2902-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Housing Repair                   15.0      0.0
2903-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Power Reconstruction            35.6       0.2
2904-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Public Works and Employment      10.0      0.8
2905-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Landmines Clearance               7.5      0.0
2906-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Demobilization and Reintegrabon   7.5      0.5
2914-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit                90.0      0.0
N001-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee      10.0      0.0
N002-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Microenterprise/Local Inibtatives  7.0     0.4
N003-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Essenbal Hospital Services                 15.0      3.7
N032-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstructon II                  39.0      6.7
N035-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Education Reconstruction II                11.0      2.7
3028-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Reconstruction Assistance Project          17.0      4.8
3029-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Natural Gas                      10.0      0.4
3070-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                 5.0      2.7
3071-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Power iI                                   25.0      25.0
N040-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Forestry                                    7.0      6.2
3090-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)  63.0       0.0
3191-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Local Development                          15.0     15.0
3020-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Basic Health                               10.0     10.0
Total                                               409.6     81.7
The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and becamne effective on June 14, 1996.
Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1999)
Gross Commitments
------US$ Million------
Fiscal
Year      Obligor                           Type of Business                          Loan    Equity    Total
1977     Tvomica Kartona I Ambalaze Cazin   Timber, Pulp and Paper                    3.65    0.00      3.65
1985     Sour Energoinvest                  Industrial Equipment and Machinery        8.53    0.00      8.53
1997     Horizonte BiH Enterprise Fund      SME Investment                            0.00    1.93      1.93
1997     Microenterprise Bank               Microcredit                               0.00    0.57      0.57
1997     Sarajevska Pivara                  Beverage Manufacturing                    3.89    0.00      3.89
1998     SEF Akova                          Abbatoir, Meat Packing and Processing     2.08    0.00      2.08
1998     Wood Agency Credit Line            Furniture and Other Wood Products        13.69    0.00     13.69
1998     SEF Lignosper                      Fumiture Manufacturing                    2.27    0.00      2.27
1999     SEF Kupex                          Industrial and Consumer Services          2.46    0.00      2.46
Total Gross Investments                                                36.57    2.50     36.57
Participations, Cancellations, Terminations, Exchange Adjustments,
Repayments, and Arrears (Principal Only)                              13.01    0.00     13.01
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                      36.57    2.50     36.57
Total Undisbursed                                                      14.20    1.54     14.20
Total Outstanding                                                      22.37   0.96      22.37



SCHEDULE C
Page 1 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                       /19
B"osia  furope&                  ______
POVERTYancuSOCIAL                                      and    Central      LOW-
Heozegovina  Asia  Incom     Development diamond*
1 998
Population, mid-year (mlins)       ..4.2                          476      2,048.                Life expectancy
GNP per capit (Atla method, US$),                      92       2,320       350
GNP (A4la method US$ bIio)                              3.9     1,108       722
Avera se annual growth, 1091-97
Population (%/)                                        0.1         .2        2.1     GN
Labor force (%)                                         0.3       0.5       2:3      GPGross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (1atet year 'available, 199147)                                 r capita                      enrollment
Povry(  fppltion below national povetly Mie)*
Urban poulatior (% offtal poplatIon)42               67        28
Life expectancy at birt la~                                        60        59
Infant mrtality (per 1,000 live bIts)~                   1's       25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                I*                *                  Access to safe water
Access to safe watert (%of popu1ation)                                       71
IllliteracyN( of popultion age 15)47
Gross primary enrollment (% of coo-g popultn)9                               91            - Bsi  n   ezgvn
Male         .                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100'  Low-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RATJIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS.
1978o    1988       197        1998
Economic ratios*
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   .       ...      42.0      380Trd
Exports of~ goods and servicealGOP              ..        .      29.3       33~5Trd
Gross domestic ssavngslGQP           .           ,       .        49         1 .
Gross national savingelGOP                      i.. .             1.         0,4
Current account batanclGOp  ..      ,.     41.0      .-27.8     Domestic
Interest paymentslGDp.                                    .       6.7        2.7                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  .         .      128.3      705      Savings
Total debt servcleprts                    .      .38 
Present valUe of debtlGDP                      ..                   .        9.8
Present value of debtlexpprts         .          .        .          .     178 8
Indebtedness
10764   1987-97      109        1997      19
(average annual grWth)
GDP.                                   .,        .     69.1      29.5       1,            -Bosnia and He,zegovina
GNP per capita                          .        .     74.0      301         1 .4                Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          .        .      99.3      57,7       34.7    __________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          200
Agriculture                                     ..        .....
IndustryI
Manufacturing                                  .o
Services                                                                             50
Private consumption                             .         ...                  .92  93  94  99  99  97  98
General government consumption                  ..        .                                       GDI        0--GDP
Imports of gGods and services                   .         ..     76.1       70.2
(average anual growth)1976486  1987-97                1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
Agriculture                                     .         ..200
Industry                                        .         ...                 *    ISO
Manufacturing
Services                                                                              0
50 
Private consumption                             .
General government consumption                  ..        .         .          .       
Gross domestic investment                       .         ..     61.2       10.2           92  93  94  95  99  97  99
Imports of goods and services                   .         ..     31.7        3.7             -Exports    -0-Imports
Gross national product..                                  ._____________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 2 of 2
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domesfic prices
(% change)                                                                             115
Consumer prces                                              ..       ..                110
ImplicitGDPdeflator                               ..       ..       11.2      3.1      100
Government funance                                                                     ss
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    go
Current revenue                                   .        ...                  ..92   93   94   ss  srd  97   go
Current budget balance                                                                         -     GDP deflator  -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        .._.._..
TRADE
1976     1986       1997      1998      Expot and Import bvels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..        ..       575       817      3,000
Commodity I                                     ..       ..                          2,500
Commodity 2                                                                          2,000
Manufactures                                    ..
Total imports (cif)                              ..        ..     2,333      2,573     1,500-
Food                                                                                 1.000
Fuel and energy                                 ..       .. .. .o0
Capital goods                                   ..       F. ..                 .
91  92  93  94  ss  srd  97  rza
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                   -I .  Exports  11 Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..        ..         ..        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1976     1986       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                     ..       ..     1,002      1,367      0                             I .
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..     2,606     2,864       s  o   92  93  94  95 9s  97  9a
Resource balance                                 ..        ..    -1,604    -1,498
Net income                                        ..       ..      -228      -109      -15
Net current transfers                            ..        ..       772       480      -20                         l
Current account balance                           ..       ..    -1,060    -1,127      -2I
Financing items (net)                            ..        ..       971      1,158     -30 -
Changes in net reserves                           ..       ..        89        -31    -ss
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locabUS$)                  ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..       ..      4,392     2,879
IBRD                                            .        ..       596       581
IDA                                            ..        ..       291       433                                  A:581
Total debt service                                ..       ..       385       123            E: 822
IIRD                                            ..       ..        35        35
IDA                                            ..        ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                ..        ..       574       727                                        Er: 433
Official creditors                             ..        ..       431       363
Prvate creditors                               ..        ..      -107       -75
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..          0       100                                      I77
Portfolio equity                               ..        ..         0         0                 D.988
World Bank program
Commitments                                    ..        ..        77       100      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  ..        ..       111       142      B - IDA   D - Other multiateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                           ..        ..         0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-termn
Net flows                                      ..        ..       111       142
Interest payments                               .        ..        37        38
Net transfers                                  ..        ..        74       104
Development Economics                                                                                                      5/11/99



ANNEX I
Page I of 9
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
(Items in italic and bold are conditions for tranche releases)
1. Maintaining a Stable
Macroeconomic Framework
Monetary Policy
*  Maintaining policies conducive  *   Has restored and maintained  *   Maintain currency board    *   Continued satisfactory        *   Continued satisfactory
to monetary stability.           monetary stability since 1995;   principles and abstain from      implementation of the            implementation of the
*   Established countrywide          extending credits to the public  monetary policies.                monetary policies.
operational structure for the    sector or the banking system.
central bank; introduced the
new national currency.
*   Modernizing the payments    *   Developed a comprehensive     *   Initiate the implementation of    *   Continued satisfactory   *   Continued satisfactory
system and liquidating payment  two-year reform strategy to be    the reform program.              implementation of the reform     implementation of the reform
bureaus across BiH.              implemented through end-                                          program                           program
2000.
Fiscal Policy
*  Maintaining a fiscal policy   *   Has maintained budgets       *   Balance budgets on a cash    *   Continued satisfactory        *   Continued satisfactory
consistent with the monetary     balanced on a cash basis and     basis; abstain from borrowing    implementation of the fiscal      implementation of the fiscal
policy and overall structural    abstained from borrowing from    from the nonbank and banking     policies.                         policies.
reform strategy.                 the domestic banking sector.     sector; and prevent
accumulation of arrears.
*   Established clear arrangements   *   Continued satisfactory   *   Continued satisfactory        *   Continued satisfactory
for the financing of the State  implementation of the State       implementation of the State      implementation of the State
budget, including an automatic   finance mechanism.               finance mechanism.                finance mechanism.
transfer mechanism between
the Entity and the State
Governments.
11. Reforming and Harmonizing
Tax Policies and Coordinating
Tax Collection
*   Broadening and accelerating  *   Entities began implementing  *  Entities to inplement the State-   * Entities to conplete the   * Implement;
the process of harmonization of  the State-set common custom     set tariff surcharges;           harmonization of sales tax
the Entity tax systems; and      and trade policy;            * Entities to elininate special     system by reducing differences
establishing strong          *   Entities began harmonizing     trade agreements with Croatia    in sales tax rates;
administrative co-ordination     their sales and excise tax      and Yugoslavia;
between the Entity tax           systems by adopting similar tax  * Entities to equalize the excise
administrations.                 bases and by harmonizing the   tax rates on domestic and
collection point in the         inported goods;
distribution process;



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
POIJCY AREAS AND ocerves           AofHlVEMdlwr/MPAws  M-v9 sudS PRORTG!*BQAR                     MER&        OR I        SEcOND:   MEA.IS PRIMI  TOfiE >TSD
ALiwDYt'r        c                  PSENATtOM            .                                            n .  DBUR        T
__     _  _  _ _  __  _ _  _ _  _             (JU E    I~99 )                (0 CE  BE   :  .......5_P)          (J O NE 2000O)
*   Entities both strengthened their  *  Entities to establish a Working    * Entities to adopt a plan to  *   Entities to Implement new
own tax administration and     Group to develop a plan for      strengthen the coordination        arrangementsfor
initiated a dialogue, under the  coordination between the two   between their Tax                  administrative co-ordination,
EU's supervision, for          tax adninistrations.             Adninistrations, including an      including an information
improving administrative co-                                    information sharing system.        sharing system,
operation with each other.
*   Improving revenue attribution                                                                  * Entities to submit to their    *   Entities to implement new
rules between the Entities.                                                                      Parliaments amendments to          legislation on inter-Entity
their sales and excise tax        allocation of sales and excise
legislation on Inter-Entity       taxes.
allocation of the sales tax on
excisable goods and excise
taxes.
* Tax Working Group to initiate    *   Entities to complete proposals
the work on value added tax       for introduction of VAT system
(VAT) system.
III. Reforming the
Intergovernmental Finances
within the Entities
Federation
*   Improving revenue attribution    *   Improved the revenue     *   Begin preparing a plan to    *  Adopt changes to the tax      *   Implement the new collection
rules within the Federation.     allocation between cantons by   improve allocation of (i) sales   legislation to improve            and allocation systemfor sales
attributing sales tax on         taxes on excisable goods by      collection and allocation of     taxes on excisable goods
excisable commodities to the     ensuring greater revenues to be  sales taxes on excisable goods   between cantons.
first buyer's location.          allocated to the place of        between cantons.
destination; and (ii) profit
taxes by re-defining the
assignment and/or distribution
rules between the cantons and
the Federation
*   Strengthened the co-ordination    *   Eliminate/agree to elininate   *   Eliminate all tax and duty
*   Enhancing and protecting         between the Tax (FTA) and         existing tax relief and         exemptions without a specified
revenue capacity across          Customs Administration (FCA)      exemptions with a specific      expiration date and that are
Federation.                      and enhanced the information      expiration date, including      not providedfor under tax
sharing arrangements between     those granted to duty-free      legislation or by international
the FTA, FCA and the             shops, unless providedfor        treaties; and adopt measures
Financial Police.                under tax legislation or by      to effectively control duty-free
international treaties, by      shops and ensure that
allowing them to expire at the  transactions at such
end of their current term.      establishments are limited to
authorized persons.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 9
* Initiate preparation of a      *   Adopt and implement;         *   Implement;
proposal to clarify local
autonomy to implement local
taxes;
*   Design an approach to        *   Adopt and implement.
gradually expand the existing,
excise tax-based, property tax
system toward a traditional
property tax;
*   Agree, based on reform       *   Develop a plan to strengthen  *   Adopt and implement;
proposals developed with the     the co-ordination between the
EU-CAFAO's assistance, on a      local branches of the FTA and
strategy to merge Financial     the cantonal MoFs.
Police with the FTA and FCA
and initiate implementation.
Improving public service    .   Basic governance structure has   *   Initiate preparation of a  *   Adopt the proposal;          *   Implement;
delivery and preventing large    been established across          proposal to shift responsibility
differentials in the supply of   Federation including adoption    for higher education to
public services between          of the Law on the revenue and    Federation, determining
cantons.                         expenditure assignment.          locality, governance structure
Certain areas (e.g. health,      financing sources and
defense, social welfare),        modalities.
however, left with less clear
assignment.
Adopted laws on health                                        *   Establish cantonal health
insurance and health protection.                                  insurance funds;
*   Deternine and adopt services   *   Federation Government to
responsibilities andfinancing    adopt amendnents to the Law
soarces for the Federation       on Health Care regarding
Health Insurance Fund.           service responsibilities and
financing sonrces for the
Federation Health Insurance
Fund
*   Refrain from providing       *   Refrain from providing       *   Refrain from providing
contribution relief or           contribution relief or           contribution relief or
exemptions from heath            exemptions from health           exemptions from health
contributions;                   contributions;                   contributions;



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 9
PoLicy ARiAS AN ORJECrIVYS         Ac m        rIMESu              MEASURES PRIOR T BOARD         ME      t    SRESPRIOR TOT'H SECOND.  MLASuRES PRiOR h O fWR THIRD
AL...AV :.R.Oi.EP                   PRESENTATION                 T"W..I&.       sM3NT             TAKCHEDISBUlSftMENr
:._    _  __  _ _  __  _  _  _     .   .  M  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  (    M. ....   ,, JuN   1 9 )  (   . E cg~ a   19 9 )              (JuN E2 000)
Republika Srspka
Enhancing and protecting    *   Improved tax inspection       *   Eliminate/agree to eliminate   *   Eliminate all tax and duty
revenue capacity.                capacity for better enforcement.  existing tax relief and         exemptions without a specified
exemptions with a specific      expiration date and that are
expiration date, including      not provided for under tax
those granted to duty-free     legislation or by international
shops, unless providedfor       treaties; adopt measures to
under tax legislation or by     effectively control duty-free
international treaties, by      shops and ensure that
allowing them to expire at the  transactions at such
end of their initial ternm      establishments are limited to
authorized persons.
*   Agree, based on reform
proposals developed with the
EU-CAFAO's assistance, on a
strategy to merge Financial
Police with the FTA and FCA
and initiate implementation
*   Design an approach to        *   Adopt and initiate
gradually expand the existing,   implementation;
excise tax-based, property tax
system toward a traditional
property tax.
*   Strengthening health care                                                                      *   Develop and adopt guidelines   *   Adopt and implement.
finance by increasing                                                                              to improve administrative
transparency in resource                                                                           efficiency in health service
allocation and enhancing the                                                                       delivery and collection of
health expenditure accounting.                                                                     health contributions.
*   Refrain from providing       *   Refrain from providing       *   Refrain from providing
contribution relief or           contribution relief or           contribution relief or
exemptions from heath           exemptions from heath             exemptions from heath
contributions;                   contributions;                   contributions;
*   Designing an effective       *   Prepared draft legislation on  *   Review and revise the draft  *   Submit the proposed legislation   a   Adopt and implement.
decentralization strategy.      local management that             legislation with a view to      to the Rcpublika Srspka
proposes to decentralize the     enhance administrative           Government.
government structure. Proposed   efficiency by clearly defining
operational relationship        the role of the proposed
between the governments,        intermediate governments
however, remained unclear.       accordingly.



ANNEX I
Pag 5 of 9
nh. Establishing Efficient and
Equitable Social Safety Net
(i) Pension Reform
*  Achieving longer-term fiscal    *  Federation Government passed   *   Entities to prepare a report on   *   Entities to adopt amendments   *   Entities to implement
sustainability and improving     a new legislation to (i) prevent  actuarial projection of their   to pension legislation on         anendments to their pension
targeting of the most destitute  accumulation of pension          pensionfinances and their        benefitformula and eligibility    legislation.
pensioners by (i) redefining     arrears; (ii) gradually increase  pension inconme distribution.   criteria;
benefit rules to align promised  the retirement age; and increase
benefits with the projected     the minimum service period                                     *   Entities to adopt a temporary  *   Implement;
resources; and (ii) increasing   required for retirement; and                                      scheme to increase lowest
lowest pensions more            (iii) tighten eligibility criteria;                                pensions more generously until
generously until reaching a  *   The Management Board of                                           reaching a reasonable
reasonable subsistence level.    Bosniac Pension Fund                                              subsistence level.
improved targeting by
flattening the benefit payments;
Republika Srspka restricted
eligibility and prevented
systemic accumulation of
pension arrears.
*   Entities to begin developing,    *   Entities to adopt explicit  *   Implement;
based on actuarial projections,  financing and budgeting rules
a financing scheme to improve    for special military benefits and
the sustainability of the special  contributions and to eliminate
military benefits;               unviable schemes;
*   Entities to refrain from     *   Entities to refrain from     *   Entities to refrain from
providing contribution relief or  providing contribution relief or  providing contribution relief or
exemptions from pension          exemptions from pension          exemptions from pension
contributions;                   contributions;                   contributions;
*  Reintegration of the Federation   *   The new Federation pension  *   Federation to begin designing a  *   Federation to adopt and
pension system.                  legislation created a Federation  mechanism to retire all         implement this mechanism
wide framework for pension       outstanding claims (including    prior to the establishment of
policy and established a         both unpaid contributions and    the new unified Federation
timetable for design and         pensions);                       Pension Fund;
adoption of the new
organizational structure;
*   Federation established a     *   The Federation Pension       *   Federation Government to      *   Implement;
Federation Pension Agency to     Agency to submit to the          adopt legislative changes for
design and implement a re-       Federation Government the        financial and administrative
integration strategy.            drafi legislation on the merger  merger of the two pension
of the two pension funds.       funds alongside with the
changes to the benefit formula
and eligibility criteria.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 9
PoutcYv M&ARS   o OwEcvfs           ACHl*WEMENT1MEASURES             MEASURESWKIUORT  BOADo           MiFsuR   sPaTotsusICoNa            MEASVREPRIOI rouin* ThaRzD
ALRvAnVJ1NThOOUC90                   PMUSENTAION                   TTYci8E                           1ANCilEV M WU IW
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JN  _9~                                                               (DKIWE t9..)               :           ^.aM=(JU)NKt- 
*   Comprehensive medium-term                                                                                                           *   Entities to begin developing
pension reform.                                                                                                                         proposals for medium-term
reforms, including privately
managed pensions.
(ii) Other Social Protection
Programs
*   Achieving longer-termn fiscal  *   Entities drafted a new       *   Entities to initiate a survey of    *   Entities to subndt to the Bank   *   Implement;
sustainability, improving        legislative framework for         the beneficiaries under veteran    a conprehensive analysis of
govemance as well as targeting    veteran's benefits scheme.        programs;                         beneficiariesfor their
of the veteran's benefits and     Benefit formula and eligibility                                     veteran 's programs;
other social protection           criteria, however, are still not
programs by (i) redefining        compatible with realities of  *   Entities to begin preparing a  *   Entities to adopt (i) new benefit  *   Implement
benefit rules to align promised   future resources and objective    report on actuarial projection of  rules to align veteran's benefits
benefits with the projected       of protecting the most destitute.  their veteran's finances;        with projected resources; and
resources; (ii) re-defining the                                                                       (ii) new indexation rules to link
eligibility criteria and                                                                              benefit adjustments to the
improving distribution rules to                                                                       availability of resources.
channel adequate resources to                                                                     *   Entities to re-define benefit  *   Implement.
most needy; and (iii) re-                                                                             categories, including through
organizing the administrative                                                                         reducing their number,
structure,                                                                                            designing one-time
compensation programs, and
improving targeting;
*   Entities to re-define the     *   Entities to finalize the process
beneficiary identification cards.  of linking databases on
*   Entities to initiate a            beneficiary profiles in their
comprehensive review of           respective CSWs; and,
existing social welfare          subsequently, complete the
programs, including              review of social welfare
composition of beneficiaries      programs.
and financing sources.       *   Entities to review the CSWs
budgets and provide each
CSWs with adequate financing
for basic administrative
expenditures and for most
critical assistance programs.
*   Reintegration of the Federation                                 *   Federation to begin developing   *   Federation to adopt the    *   Adopt and implement.
veteran's benefits system.                                          a re-integration proposal for     proposal and begin drafting
veteran's programs along the      necessary legislative
lines of the pension system.      amendments.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 9
F  rgW..,,,,/,, gC fV..                                                                                                    .
Developing a comprehensive   *   Both Entities are in the process   *   Entities to determine a   *   Entities to initiate the survey;    *   Entities to complete the survey;
medium-term social protection     of developing legislative        timetable and begin preparing a  *   Entities to begin developing a    *   Entities to finalize the draft
strategy.                         frameworks for their respective   comprehensive poverty             new social protection strategy,    proposal for submission to the
social assistance system.         analysis built on a household     focusing on target level of       Government.
expenditure and income survey.    assistance, eligibility criteria,
administrative structure and the
financing modalities.
V. Reforming the Budgetary
Management System
*   Improving budget planing      *   Established legal basis for the    *   Entities to establish the BFP  *   Entities to complete the initial   *   Entities to revise the BFP to
processes by developing:          budget process and                Working Group to co-ordinate      BFP and to obtain approval         expand its time-horizon to
(i) a comprehensive multi-year   strengthened the basic budget     the preparation of the BFP        from their Cabinets.               threeyears and guide theyear
budget strategy (MTEF)            procedures and organizational     and to start the preparation of                                      2001 budget and submit it to
consistent with government's     structures.                       the initial BFP;                                                      their Cabinets.
macroeconomic and sectoral   *   Improved budget classification
policies and integrating capital  and adopted a uniform budget   *   Entities to establish Sector  *   Entities to extend sector    *   Entities to extend Sector
and recurrent budgets;            classification in the Federation;  Working Groups in selected       Working Groups and policy          Working Groups to cover main
(ii) strengthening the       *   Improved coverage of revenues      sectors and to prepare sector     work to cover at least two more    sectors and initiate sector
institutional capacity and        and expenditures and initiated    policy and strategy               sectors compared to the initial    policy and strategy reviews to
establishing a cooperative        commitments reporting;            frameworks;                       composition;                       develop sector strategy
approach for budget planning.   *   Began including external                                                                            frameworks;
budget support and related
expenditures in the budget.   *   Entities to establish formal  *   Entities to incorporate capital   *   Entities to adopt a strategy and
procedures for co-ordination     projects in the year 2000          timetable for integrating their
between the MOF and Aid Co-       budget plans including those      external aid management
ordination Units;                 which are externally funded       functionL
*   Entities to begin modifying
existing databases by recording
aid disbursements more
systematically
*   Entities to initiate work to  *   Entities to establish         *   Entities to operationalise
establish macroeconomic           macroeconomic analysis and        macroeconomic analysis and
analysis and forecasting units   forecasting units In their         forecasting units;
in each Entity MoF.               respective MoFs;
*   Entities to determine the pilot    *   Entities to initiate work to
sector ministries for             establish policy and
establishing policy and           programming units in pilot
program units and their           sector ministries.
functional organizations.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
POLICY ARiAS ANDOBWE6rEivS         ACHvIKVME*/MNSURES              MWVREfPOR'TO B0M               MwRJI=PORmo   TO ThSEOND          MzaIsPRI TOi  UE7W
ALuREADY bmOCED                     ORRSNTATION                  TR c II'Zm 7RANCHE DisBBWtSMmNr
.__ _ __ _ _ __ _ ___ .      ... !..     . ....    _ .      . :.               JU E                     c ........  :, ,   ,  )    ........  .. ,,, ...I     ) 
*   Strengthening budget control    *   Entities adopted the legal basis   *   Entities and State to adopt  *   Entities and State to adopt the    *   Entities and State to operate
and cash management capacity    for the establishment of the      regulations on the Treasury      new systems and begin             with Single Treasury Account
by establishing a treasury      treasury system;                  Department identifying           preparing required reports.       and to manage budget
system at the State and the  *   State initiated the process of   functional responsibilities.                                       execution through Treasury
Entity levels.                   developing a model for       *   Entities and State to begin                                        LedgerAccounts.
establishing a treasury system;  developing systems for cash
*   Agreement reached on the         management budget execution,
gradual transfer of government   accounting and reporting.
accounts in the Payments
Bureaus to Entity Treasury
Ledger Accounts.
VI. Establishing Auditing
Procedures and Institutions
*   Promoting transparency and   *   Agreed on the organizational    *   State and Entities to submit  *  State and Entities to adopt the   *   State and Entities to
accountability in public sector  structure, mandate and a work    draft legislativeframework      legislativeframework and           operationalize their SAls.
performance and providing        plan for establishment of the    and budgetsfor their SAIs to     budgetsfor their SAIs.
legislative bodies with the      Supreme Audit Institutions       their Parlianents;           *  State and the Entity
necessary information to         (SAls) and established a     *   State and Entities to appoint    Parliaments to appoint
exercise control over the        Working Group to initiate the    their respective Acting          Auditor-Generalsfor their
executive.                      technical work towards this       Auditor-Generals.                SAIs.
end.                                                          X   State and Entities to adapt audit  *   Sate and Entities (including
standards, promulgate            cantons in the Federation) to
regulations and prepare training  begin preparing and publishing
manuals;                         audit reports.
*   Entities to initiate preparation
of Constitutional amendments
for establishment of their SAls
*   Strengthening internal audit  *   Began developing a strategy to   *   Entities to develop a plan to re-  *   Entities to adopt and implement  *   Entities to adopt a timetable for
procedures within public         strengthen internal audit        organize the Inspection Units   the plan for establishing         gradually expanding internal
institutions by developing a     procedures.                      within their MoFs as Internal    Internal Audit Units in their    auditing to include operational
more systematic and                                               Audit Units with proper          MoFs, responsible, at             efficiency and effectiveness
harmonized approach to                                           internal auditing capacity        minimum, for a compliance         and initiate implementation;
internal audit function.                                          reporting to the Minister of     audit;
Finance.                    *   Entities to expand the process    *   Entities to adopt and initiate
to develop a similar approach    implementation.
for strengthening the internal
audit function in other public
institutions.



ANNEX I
Vil. Strengthening Debt
Management Capacity
Strengthening debt          *   Created legal and institutional   *   Develop a plan to strengthen  *   Adopt and implement.    *   Implement;
management capacity to          framework for external debt       policy-making, credit analysis
enhance the efficacy and         management;                      and monitoring functions in the
effectiveness of the external  *   Established a comprehensive    State and the Entity DMUs;
borrowing and to facilitate the  foreign debt tracking system in
reintegration of BiH into the    the State MFTER;             *   Initiate preparation of      *   State and Entities to adopt the    *   State and Entities to
international capital markets.    *   Adopted a Protocol on       Guidelines to govern the public  Guidelines;                       inplement the Guidelines;
information sharing between      sector borrowing, including at
the State, the Entities and the  the Sub-Entity level,        *   Create debt databases in each    *   Create a Debt Advisory
CBBH;                            establishing: (i) a              Entity DMU and introduce         Committee at the State level,
*   Entities adopted a general       comprehensive debt reporting     compulsory reporting              with representation from the
framework to govern Sub-         system; (ii) transparent         procedures for all public sector  Entity DMUs, to co-ordinate
Entity borrowing.               selection, budgeting, and         borrowing (including, Sub-        borrowing strategies between
supervision procedures for       Entity governments, public       different levels of
loans and guarantees; and (iii)  enterprises and utilities, extra-  governments.
procedures for borrowing         budgetary fund etc.)
policy co-ordination.



ANNEX II
Second Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina
May24, 1999
Mr. J. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
As you know, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) has been experiencing continuing economic and
social recovery since the signing of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement in December 1995. While living
standards are still low for many families and economic activity is still at about 40 percent of the prewar
levels, the reconstruction effort has already yielded significant results, as reflected by increased
production and trade, reduced unemployment, restored services, and improved infrastructure.
Our progress toward building Dayton-mandated common institutions and the governance
structure in the Entities, as well as implementing structural policy reforms, has also gained momentum,
particularly since 1998. Many critical institutions and policies are now in place. These include: the
central bank and national currency; a legislative and regulatory framework for both the banking sector
and for enterprise privatization; a uniform customs tariff and trade regime; financing means and
mechanisms for the common institutions; a legislative framework for budget management; and an
institutional and legislative framework for debt management. These achievements not only made it
possible for State institutions to begin functioning last year but also provided the basis for initial co-
ordination between the Entities in key areas of economic management. We have also achieved significant
progress in removing barriers to the movement of goods and people within the country, including initial
steps towards harmonization of tax systems across the Entities.
Sustaining and broadening the positive developments of the past year is the key challenge BiH faces
for continued rapid reconstruction and growth in the medium term. This challenge has been increased
substantially by the crisis in Kosovo. Nevertheless, we intend to accelerate structural policy reforms with an
emphasis on preparing BiH to increasingly rely on its own resources and institutions in designing and
implementing the policies required for long-term development. Public finance reform is a key element of
this strategy and the cornerstone for achieving further progress in institution-building, in strengthening fiscal
capacity, and in achieving robust supply response in the economy.



Specifically, over the next twelve to sixteen months we intend to:
*  broaden tax policy harmonization, encourage inter-Entity trade, and strengthen administrative co-
operation between the Entities by eliminating Entity-specific protective and implicit tariffs and special
trade agreements with Yugoslavia and Croatia, by improving tax revenue attribution rules between the
Entities, and by establishing information sharing arrangements between the Entity Tax Administrations;
*  improve revenue and expenditure assignments within the Entities by adopting measures to strengthen
collection and distribution of local revenues and to improve provision of public services with geographic
spillovers and Entity-wide impact, particularly health care services;
*  create a fiscally viable and equitable social safety net by aligning pension and veteran benefits with the
realities of available resources, by improving distribution of benefits to better protect the most needy, by
initiating the design of a sound social protection system and, in the case of the Federation, by integrating
the Bosniac and Croat social safety net systems;
*  develop a comprehensive budgetary strategy by introducing strategic public resource allocation,
reintegrating current and capital budgets, strengthening institutional capacity and coordination in budget
planing and execution, and introducing treasury function;
*  establish audit institutions and procedures to improve transparency and accountability in public sector
operations;
*  strengthen country-wide policy coordination in extemal debt management, including developing a
policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing.
Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policies and Coordinating Tax Collection
We have taken significant steps to date in reforning tax policies and strengthening tax
administration within the Entities. The Federation Government has simplified its sales tax structure, further
reduced the combined wage tax and contribution rates and hence the burden on labor. It has broadened the
wage tax base to include some non-wage benefits, such as per diems and allowances; reduced the profits tax
rate, and developed a global income tax. With assistance from the EU-CAFAO, the Federation Govemment
has also developed a reform program to improve tax collection by strengthening the coordination between
the Federation Tax and Customs Administrations.
In Republika Srpska, the wage tax was also reduced through a reduction in the pension and health
contribution rates and the wage withholding tax. Similarly, sales and profit tax rates were significantly
reduced. In conjunction with these measures, the Ministry of Finance took several initiatives to maintain
revenues, including significant improvement in the inspection capacity for better enforcement and widening
of the tax net. These efforts successfully resulted in increased revenue collection despite the implementation
of significant rate cuts.
We have also initiated policy harmonization and administrative cooperation between the Entities for
mutual benefits. Both Entities began implementing the State-set common customs and trade policy for most
imports. In an effort to broaden harmonization of the tax systems, the Entities have also begun harmonizing
their sales and excise tax systems by adopting similar tax bases and by collecting revenues at the same point
in the distribution process.
Further progress in coordination of tax policies and tax administration between the Entities is
critical to avoiding harmful tax competition and tax evasion, as well as for encouraging the free flow of
goods between the Entities. To this end, our near-term priorities are: (i) incorporating all Entity specific
tariffs into the State customs law and eliminating both implicit tariffs imposed by the Entities and special
trade agreements with Croatia and Yugoslavia; (ii) completing the harmonization of the sales and excise tax
structures between the Entities; (iii) developing a revenue distribution system between the Entities; and (iv)
developing adequate cooperative arrangements between the tax administrations in the Entities. Efforts are
underway to implement these priorities.
2



Harmonization of Entity tax systems. Over the last several months, the Tax Working Group
(composed of representatives from both Entities) and the State and Entity Ministries of Trade have started
developing a joint approach for eliminating the Entity-set protective and implicit tariffs. Regarding the
protective tariffs, with the assistance from the OHR, we identified the list of items on which additional
customs tariffs will be applied during 1999 and selected a set of uniforn rates. The State Council of
Ministers adopted the list and the rates in March 1999. Both Entities are in the process of adjusting their
system for implementation of the new rates and expect to initiate the implementation by no later than mid-
May 1999. Regarding the elimination of the implicit tariffs, with the assistance from the US Treasury and
the ORR, the Tax Working Group is continuing to work on setting identical rates for excise taxes on
domestic and imported commodities in the Entities. This approach will ensure that all differential taxes are
accounted for in the additional tariffs enacted by the Council of Ministers. It will, at the same time,
harmonize the excise tax rates on domestically produced goods between the Entities. Both Entities expect to
adopt the new and harmonized excise tax rates by no later than June 1999. Additionally, in an effort to
further limit tax avoidance and to encourage the free flow of goods across BiH, we intend to complete the
harmonization of the sales tax system between the Entities by aligning the sales tax rates by the end of 1999.
We recognize that for full harmonization of the customs system, Federation and Republika Srpska
must also eliminate their special trade arrangements with Croatia and Yugoslavia, respectively. These
arrangements effectively exempt most imports from customs tariffs and subject them to domestic, rather
than foreign, excise tax rates. A decision towards elimination was taken by both the Federation and
Republika Srpska in mid-May 1999. Both Entities are currently adjusting their customs system for
implementation of State-set common customs rates for trade with Croatia and Yugoslavia by no later than
June 1999.
Improving revenue attribution rules between the Entities. As trade between the Entities grows,
there is also the immediate need to address the taxation of inter-Entity sales. The existing inter-Entity tax
revenue attribution rules result in sales tax revenues on excisable goods and excise tax revenues remaining
where they are collected. Consequently, they create incentives for harmful tax competition, result in
inequitable inter-Entity revenue distribution and discourage free trade between the Entities. To improve the
system, we will develop a mechanism that would ensure maximum revenue collection while providing the
sales tax revenues on excisable goods and excise tax revenues to the Entity where the commodities are to be
consumed. Accordingly, revenues shall be collected at the point of import or manufacture and passed from
the collecting Entity (where manufacture or import occurs) to the consuming Entity (the Entity of
destination) through a mechanism which would ensure that revenues are paid to the proper Entity, such as
introducing tax stamps. The Tax Working Group has begun developing the rules and the operating
principles of the new attribution system and will subsequently determine the necessary amendments to the
Entity Sales and Excise Tax legislation. By December 1999, both Entities will have submitted to their
Parliaments the amendments to their legislation on inter-Entity allocation of the sales and excise taxes. Both
Entities will have implemented these amendments by no later than March 2000.
We intend to deepen, in the next two years, reform of the sales tax system by introducing a value
added tax system (VAT). The VAT system would not only generate more revenues, reduce the
administrative complications of the existing sales tax system and close opportunities for evasion, but it
would also further the alignment of our tax system with European norms. Both Entities are considering
analyzing how VAT system could be structured within and across the Entities over the next six to eight
months, and both Entities are developing a proposal for submission to their Governments by no later than
June 2000.
Strengthening administrative co-ordination between the Entities. At present, due to very limited co-
ordination, the Entity tax administrations are unable to fully audit transactions and tax returns that involve
both Entities; they are unaware of many transactions between firms across the Entities. We recognize that
effective elimination of the potential for tax evasion, introduction of new attribution rules for revenue
3



allocation between the Entities, and eventually a VAT system all require strong administrative cooperation
between the Entities revenue collection agencies. As a first step in this direction, the Entities have
established a Working Group to study ways for improving administrative cooperation. The Group will
develop a plan to strengthen information sharing arrangements and coordination between the Entity Tax
Administrations so as to ensure effective implementation of the new inter-Entity allocation rules for the sales
and excise taxes. By December 1999, both Entities will have completed and adopted this plan and both will
have begun implementing it by no later than March 2000.
Reforming the Intergovernmental Finances within the Entities
Under the Dayton Accords, major government budgetary responsibilities are divided among the
four levels of government: the State, the Entities, the cantons and the municipalities. The design of the
intergovernmental fiscal system assigns limited economic and fiscal management responsibility at the
State level but significant autonomy at the Entity level. The Entities have different fiscal structures. In
the Federation, canton level administration is being developed to allow for greater local control for setting
service levels. A more centralized approach is operating in Republika Srpska. Due to the Federation's
more complicated structure, issues in intergovernmental finances are relatively more significant in the
Federation than in Republika Srpska.
Since mid-1997, we intensified our efforts to establish Dayton-mandated budgetary financing
arrangements between the State and the Entities. In 1998, we established both clear financing arrangements
and a transfer mechanism between the Entity and the State governments. Based on this system, we have
begun formulating and implementing mutually consistent budgets across all three Governments. These
arrangements have substantially improved stability and the transparency of financial relations between the
three governments, and provided the State with the resource base to undertake its administrative functions
and to meet external obligations. We will continue to fully implement these arrangements during both the
current fiscal year and in the future.
Progress in establishing the cantonal governance structure has continued in the Federation,
including considerable, though uneven, progress in integrating the administrative structure in the two
ethnically mixed cantons. At present, all cantons have basic fiscal management and legislative structures in
place. Since 1997, the revenue and expenditure assignments have generally followed the structure laid out
in the new Federation Constitution. The Federation Government has achieved some improvement in the
sales tax revenue allocation between cantons by re-defining, in late 1997, the collection point for the sales
tax revenues.
Likewise, the Republika Srpska Government has, since 1997, improved the revenue allocation to
provide certain municipalities with a higher share of tax revenues, depending on their characteristics. The
allocation of revenues is higher for those municipalities that are on the border, have high social problems,
have significant damage from the war, or have large numbers of refugees. These adjustments constitute a
step towards eliminating financial imbalances at the local level.
Over the next sixteen months, we will deepen our reform efforts to support the development of a
sound intergovernmental financial system in both Entities. Specific issues we intend to address in the
Federation involve enhancing both revenue collection and distribution, and provision of minimum service
levels, particularly in health. In the Republika Srpska, we are working on a decentralization strategy aimed
at creating a more efficient intergovernmental system and health finance reform.
Improving revenue attribution rules within Federation. Existing arrangements in the allocation of
revenues between the cantons result in a relatively wide range of revenues on a per capita basis (about 5:1 in
1998). Our initial attempt to address this issue by attributing sales taxes on excisable commodities to the
first buyer's location in October 1997, while improving overall revenue allocation between cantons, resulted
4



in disproportionately greater per capita revenues in those cantons with high economic activity and cantons
where importing is concentrated. Similar deficiencies exist in the current allocation of profit tax revenues to
the headquarters canton in cases where companies operate in more than one canton.
To further improve the revenue allocation rules between cantons, we have agreed on developing a
mechanism that will ensure allocation of greater revenues to the place of destination while maximizing
revenue collection. This mechanism will be operated by collecting sales taxes on excisable commodities at
the import or manufacturing stage and by allocating them according to a formula that constitutes a sound
proxy for the distribution on a destination basis and that yields additional revenues for all cantons. As
demonstrated by the forms of sales tax evasion to date, collecting sales taxes at import or manufacture will
significantly minimize tax evasion, which, in turn, will allow all cantons to receive higher revenues. The
Federation MoF, in co-ordination with the cantonal MoFs, plans to finalize the design of the mechanism by
September 1999 and, subsequently, to draft the associated amendments to the sales and excise tax
legislation. By December 1999, the Federation Parliament will have adopted these amendments for
implementation starting January 2000. Likewise, we will consider improving allocation of the profit taxes in
the near future by re-defining the allocation rules between the Federation and cantons, along with those
expenditures that have a Federation-wide impact, but are presently assigned to cantons without clear
financing arrangements, such as higher education.
Enhancing and protecting revenue capacity in the Entities. Both the tax bases and the tax rates for
most of the important taxes in the Federation--including sales, wages, and profits--are determined at the
Federation level due to associated administrative and compliance efficiencies. We recognize, however, that
the cantonal revenues must be protected from the Federation's exempting taxpayers or narrowing the base
for taxes assigned to cantons and re-assigning revenues/expenditures unilaterally. To this end, we intend to
take the following steps over the next eight months: as a first step, we will allow existing tax relief and
exemptions, including those exemptions granted to duty-free shop, with a specific expiration date to expire,
unless the exemptions are specifically provided for by either international treaties or the existing tax laws; as
a second step, we will, eliminate, by December 1999, those tax and duty exemptions that are without a
specified expiration date and that are not provided for by either international treaties or the existing tax laws,
and will adopt measures to effectively control duty-free shops and ensure that transactions at such
establishments are limited to authorized persons; as a third step, we will require Parliamentary acts for any
changes to cantonal tax bases and rates. In Republika Srpska, practice of tax exemptions/relief to date has
been comparatively limited and the above stated principals will be guiding the tax policy in the future.
On the administrative side, to improve the tax collection both in the Federation and Republika
Srpska, we plan to reform and transform the revenue collecting institutions in each Entity and improve
coordination between local tax administration offices and the cantonal Ministry of Finances in the
Federation. Our aim is to ensure that taxpayers are confronted with coordinated audits. The new, re-
organized administrative system will have begun operating in the near future.
In addition, we plan to adjust the Federation tax system, both to establish appropriate opportunities
for cantons and municipalities to increase revenue collection, and to allow them a reasonable capacity to
meet the differential preferences of their citizens. To this end, we will adopt, by December 1999, legislation
that will establish the cantonal capacity to set minimum tax rates so as to limit the degree of tax competition
between the cantons and municipalities. We further plan to gradually expand our currently limited property
tax system toward a traditional property tax system in order to augment local government finance,
particularly in municipalities in both the Federation and Republika Srpska. This work will also involve
establishing cooperation between finance, cadastral and tax administration offices of the Entities' local
governments.
Strengthening intergovernmental finance in Republika Srpska. Over the past months, we have
begun developing a new local management strategy which aims to decentralize the governance structure
5



by creating an intermediate set of governments in the form of districts. We are envisaging the creation of
eight such districts that would be responsible for roads, communications, secondary education, and
regional health care. The districts will be financed mainly by a percentage of tax revenues raised in their
jurisdictions. We are currently in the process of developing the legislative framework for this new
system which will be finalized by the end of 1999. We recognize that operational relationship between
the governments needs to be clearly laid out in the legislation with a focus on enhancing the
administrative efficiency. To achieve this, we will restrict the role of districts to be de-concentrated arms
of the central government and will legislate their responsibilities accordingly.
Improving public service delivery in the Entities. We recognize the need for developing efficient
mechanisms for delivering and financing education and health services in both Entities, particularly in the
Federation due to its decentralized governance structure. Our priority in the case of education services is to
address the present weaknesses in higher education services in the Federation, which are currently being
delivered and largely financed by selected cantons, although the benefits are received by residents from
many cantons. To this end, we plan to develop, by the end of 1999, a clear service delivery framework
involving a re-definition of respective responsibilities of the Federation and cantons in higher education.
In the case of health services, we have already begun designing a strategy to establish an effective
governance framework and to improve both collection and usage of health care resources in both Entities.
An important integral element of our strategy is to ensure that all eligible residents will have access to basic
health care services, with a particular emphasis on designing the most cost-effective basic health package in
each Entity. Building on these principals, each Entities' Ministry of Health has prepared, with the assistance
from donors (including the World Bank, World Health Organization, EU-PHARE and the Government of
United Kingdom), policy papers laying out their health care reform strategy in the medium-term. Both
Entities have also initiated technical studies to facilitate the design of specific policy measures and
mechanisms to achieve the objectives of their reform strategy. These studies include: (i) preparation of a
comprehensive "Health Account" in each Entity covering both public sector revenues and expenditures in
health, and private, out-of-pocket health spending; (ii) determination of the most cost-effective basic
package of health services in each Entity along with management tools and incentives to promote their
effective provision and usage; and (iii) completion of a survey on public evaluation of and expectations from
the health care system in the Entities to increase the responsiveness of the system to the needs of the
population. In addition, with the support from the Bank's Basic Health Project, we plan to develop new
incentive mechanisms for improving efficiency in remuneration of health service providers in the near
future.
While the above stated overall objectives of the health care reform are similar across Entities, the
content of reform differs between the Entities, reflecting differences in their governance and legislative
structure. In the Federation, as presented in the 1997 Health Insurance Law, we envisage a canton-based
extra-budgetary health insurance system (cantonal funds), financed by payroll tax contributions for health.
Recognizing that such a system will lead to undesirable small risk pools, we also envisage the creation of a
Federation level health insurance fund (Federation fund), responsible for certain joint health care functions.
We have begun building this new institutional structure both at the cantonal and the Federation level, but the
progress to date has been limited. Only three cantons have established their funds so far. As a result,
several cantons continue to deposit their health contributions in the general canton budget and to use a
portion of these funds for financing other services. Our important priority during 1999 is completing, before
the end of the year, the establishment of the cantonal funds, and ensuring that the health care contributions
will flow into these funds in all cantons starting in January 2000.
As for the Federation level structure, we established the Federation Health Insurance Fund and
appointed its Director in December 1998. Another important priority for 1999, is to prepare the
conditions for smooth operation of the Federation fund in the near future. To this end, we have already
begun formulating, in coordination with the cantons, the functional responsibilities of the Federation
6



fund and its financing modalities. We recognize that the design of the Federation fund is critically
important in reducing the existing wide variations across cantons in access to health services, and in
enhancing the overall health service delivery across the Federation. Therefore, we have agreed that the
Federation fund will undertake the following major responsibilities: (i) ensuring that all eligible residents
of the Federation have access to basic health care services; (ii) financing services with Federation-wide
benefits, such as eligible tertiary care services and highly specialized services that can only be delivered
effectively in a limited number of locations for a larger risk pool; and (iii) providing technical and
managerial assistance in operation of the cantonal health insurance funds, including centralized
procurement of medical supplies. Regarding financing of the Federation fund, we have agreed that its
resource base will be derived from total payroll tax contributions for health; specifically, we are
envisaging assigning up to one-fifth of the total health contributions to the Federation fund. Building on
the above stated principles, by December 1999, we will have specified the functional responsibilities and
the share of the Federation fund in total health contributions. Based on this final framework, we shall
have drafted, by February 2000, the required amendments to the Federation Health Insurance Law on the
responsibilities and financing sources of the Federation fund. By no later than April 2000, the Federation
Government shall have adopted these amendments to the Federation Health Insurance Law for operation
of the Federation Health Insurance Fund starting from mid-2000 onwards.
In Republika Srpska, the health care system operates within a more centralized structure,
including the Republika Srpska Public Health Insurance Fund and its four regional branches. The system
is being financed mainly by payroll tax contributions for health. The government finances health
contributions of certain unemployed populations, such as refugees and demobilized soldiers, from the
general budget. During 1999, we are aiming to adopt a new Health Insurance Law in Republika Srpska
with a focus on (i) improving the financial viability of the system through promotion of cost-effectiveness
and efficiency in public health service delivery; and (ii) developing a solidarity system, as in the case of
the Federation, ensuring equal access to the basic package of health care services across Republika
Srpska as well as financing eligible tertiary health care services. In addition, we plan to develop, by
December 1999, guidelines to promote efficient operation of the Republika Srpska Public Health
Insurance Fund and its four regional branches. The guidelines will establish: (i) procedures for
improving transparency in budgeting and usage of health contributions; (ii) incentives/sanctions to
improve collection; (iii) procedures for strengthening coordination between the central fund and its
branch offices; and (iv) prototypes of contracts to guide the purchasing of health services.
Reform of Social Safety Net
Reforming Pension System.  Rising wages and employment over the last three years, and hence
the rising pension tax base, brought about a significant increase in pension revenues of the three pension
funds presently operating in BiH -- two separate schemes in the Federation, covering Bosniac-majority areas
(the Sarajevo Fund) and Croat-majority areas (the Mostar Fund), and a Republika Srpska scheme. Despite
the resulting parallel increase in benefits, however, benefit levels remain less than one third of their pre-war
levels in the Federation and less than one fifth in the Republika Srpska. The cause of the financial strain is
the high ratio of pensioners to contributors, which is presently at about 0.8:1 across the three funds.
At present, all three pension funds operate on a pay-as-you-go basis -- i.e. current contributions are
paid out as benefits in the same period. Each fund, however, pays pensions according to a different
fortnula: in the Sarajevo Fund, until the passage of the Federation Pension Law in 1998, the pre-war formula
was used to calculate pensions but roughly half of this amount was actually paid out, and the difference
between the actual and statutory benefits was considered to be a debt owed to pensioners. The new
legislation declared all future benefit payments final, thereby precluding the possibility for further systemic
arrears. In the Mostar Fund, earmarked revenues are divided by the number of pensioners resulting in a flat
benefit, zero balance as well as highest minimum pensions in BiH. The Mostor Fund is currently in the
process of adopting a new formnula similar to that of the Sarajevo Fund in accordance with the
7



harmonization principals of the new Federation Pension Legislation. The Republika Srpska Fund pays
pensions according to a formula which gives higher pensions to those with more education-as a proxy for
pre-war higher earnings. It, however, operates with significant transfers from the budget since earmarked
contribution revenues are not sufficient to cover outlays.
The existing pension schemes face several challenges in the short term. First, owing to financial
difficulty, both the Republika Srpska pension fund and the Sarajevo pension fund in the Federation have
been late for several months in making payments to pensioners. Second, despite the rapid increase in the
average pension level for some parts of the country, a significant number of the pensioners in both the
Federation and Republika Srpska still receive pensions that are below the minimum required for subsistence
living. Third, the pension finances are largely being managed according to principles we developed during
the war-period in order to cope with the severe financial difficulties; a more comprehensive pension strategy
needs to be developed and gradually introduced. We recognize that, in the case of the Federation, dealing
with the third challenge requires rapid progress in reintegration of the Federation pension system, without
which in-depth pension reforn is impossible.
The immediate challenge that we face is to address the financial constraints in a more systematic
way. To achieve this, we plan to redefine benefit rules with the aim of aligning the benefit levels with the
realities of future revenues and demographics. This approach shall be phased in gradually, with the
objective of attaining a financial balance over a reasonable time period. In the meantime, pension funds
shall give special attention to validating adjustments to the benefits by realistic projections about resource
availability. In the case of the Federation, while the new Federation pension legislation prevents the
systemic accumulation of arrears, the benefit formula still needs to be adjusted to reflect the realities of
future resources. As a first step in redefining the benefit formula, by June 10, 1999, we will have prepared a
report on actuarial projection of each Entities' pension finances. Based on this analysis, we will develop,
during the second half of 1999, a new benefit formula and an eligibility criteria conducive to a long run
balance in Entity pension finances. By the end of 1999, we will have adopted the necessary amendments to
Entity pension legislation in order to introduce this new system in 2000.
Another immediate challenge we face is to improve the targeting of the most destitute pensioners in
the short-term. In both the Republika Srpska and the Sarajevo Pension Funds, the present distribution of
benefits results in relatively wide range of pensions (5:1). Given the low average perisions (about 75 DM in
the Republika Srpska and 150 DM in the Federation), the situation is especially difficult for those with
below average pensions. We plan to improve the distribution of benefits through a temporary policy
whereby the lowest pensions shall be increased relatively more generously when revenues are increased,
until reaching a reasonable subsistence level. To this end, we aim to prepare a report on distribution of
pension income by June 1999. Based on this analysis, we intend to adjust, by the end of 1999, the benefit
formula for provision of a reasonable minimum benefit starting in 2000.
We recognize that further pressures to pension finances would come from special military benefits
in both Entities. In the Federation, special lower contribution rates, along with a more generous benefit
formula for the military has already created financial strains. While the new Federation Pension Law
envisages the development of financing modalities for special military benefits through separate legislation,
preparation of the legislation has been delayed. Similarly, several special benefit schemes for the military
exist in Republika Srpska, where budgetary transfers provide supplementary financing. The resolution of
financing issues for the military by the end of 1999, is priority in both Entities in order to prevent
cumulating financial imbalances in their new pension systems. To this end, by no later than the end of
1999, we shall calculate the additional liability caused by the special benefits and develop a transparent
financing strategy, involving either earmarking revenues and/or reducing the special benefits. We further
plan to support the viability of the new system by eliminating tax relief or exemptions from payroll tax for
pensions.
8



As indicated above, the decentralized state of public pension provision presents another important
challenge in case of the Federation. An initial step to address this problem was taken last year through the
adoption of the new Federation Pension Law. The Law created both a Federation-wide framework for
social policy by requiring the two Federation funds to operate under one Federation-wide law, and a
Federation Pension Agency with a mandate to begin the process of re-integration of the pension system. As
a further step towards re-integration, a new Federation Pension Agency, consisting of representatives from
both pension funds, was established in January 1999 and assigned with the task of drafting this legislation by
April 1999. By early June, the ongoing work to prepare this draft will have been finalized; the draft will
have been submitted to the Federation Government by no later than June 10, 1999. The Federation intends
to take further steps toward the actual merger of financial and administrative aspects of the two funds during
the second half of 1999; it intends to adopt, by the end of 1999, the necessary legislative changes for
creating the new, Federation-wide pension system alongside measures aimed at achieving fiscal
sustainability and an adequate safety net described in above paragraphs. The Federation further plans to
design a mechanism to retire all outstanding claims (e.g., unpaid contributions from enterprises and the
military, as well as unpaid pensions) prior to the establishment of the new, Federation-wide pension fund.
Building on the above mentioned actions, we plan to extend our reform efforts, in 2000, by
developing a medium-term strategy for introducing comprehensive pension reforms over the next couple of
years. It should be noted that the new Federation Pension Law, has already introduced several positive
features which would lead to some reduction in medium term pension spending pressures. For examples it
reduces future pensions, it restricts eligibility in the medium term via provisions on the assessment base and
retirement age, and it brings post retirement indexation more into line with material resources of the funds.
Most importantly, it equates actual with legal pension payments in the Sarajevo Fund. Nevertheless, we
recognize that additional medium-term reforms must be studied both in the Federation and Republika
Srpska, including the introduction of privately managed pensions.
Reforming Veteran's Benefits and Other Social Protection Programs. During the war, our
social protection system financially collapsed and fragmented across the country; it largely remains so today.
In addition to the pension system, only veterans' benefits and a few other social programs, mainly providing
poverty relief, can be funded at present. Budgetary transfers for veterans' programs, and donor assistance
for the other programs, provide the main funding source. Social assistance programs are generally the
responsibility of cantons in the Federation, except for veterans' programs, for which the Federation shares
financial responsibility. In Republika Srpska, we have a more centralized structure at the Entity level. In
both Entities, municipal Centers for Social Work (CSW) administer the implementation of programs that
provide poverty relief, mainly by managing foreign-financed programs, as domestically-financed programs
are very limited.
As with the other social sectors, the system of social assistance today faces the dual challenge of
overcoming low levels of financing capacity and establishing a new and effective governance framework.
In addition, the Federation faces the challenge of integrating its fragmented social assistance system with an
emphasis on establishing an efficient and equitable system.
Veteran's Benefits Programs. The immediate challenges in this area are achieving fiscal
sustainability, improving targeting of the most handicapped and their families, and re-integrating the
policies and administration across the Federation. Over the last year, both Entities have made initial
efforts to address these issues and have drafted legislation on their respective veterans' benefits schemes.
We recognize that these pieces of legislation needs to be strengthened to: (i) more adequately address the
incongruity between available resources and promised benefits; (ii) improve the indexation rules, which
currently tie benefits to average wage growth; and (iii) simplify the present schedule of benefits with an
emphasis on increasing the funds available for the seriously handicapped and their families and reducing
the administrative costs of the system.
9



The analysis necessary to design such policies requires data and information on the number and
composition of beneficiaries in each Entity which at present is limited. Additionally, in the case of the
Federation, beneficiary information is contained in separate databases for Croat- and Bosniac-majority
areas; the Federation Veteran's Directorate's access to such information has thus far remained limited. As a
first step towards addressing these critical issues, both Entities are currently intensifying their efforts to
gather data and information. Both will have completed aggregation and analysis by no later than July 1999.
Subsequently, Entities plan to redefine benefit rules to align promises with projected resources and to tie
benefit adjustments to the availability of resources. They also plan to address the weakness in the definition
of the benefits system by a combination of policy measures. These measures include reducing the number
of benefit categories; separating discrete, one-time compensation programs and permanent entitlement
programs, e.g. paying one-time benefits to those with minor disabilities; and improving targeting of
resources to the neediest cases.
In addition, the Federation, building on the ongoing work towards unification of its pension system,
plans, by the end of 1999, to develop an integration strategy for veterans' programs, both on the policy and
the administrative level. It is expected that this will help minimize the administrative costs associated with
multiple schemes and will harmonize benefit levels across the Federation.
Reforming other social protection programs. In the face of gradually diminishing foreign
humanitarian support, our main resource base for social assistance, the development and institutionalization
of a new social protection system in BiH is another near-term challenge that we are facing. Our immediate
concern is to sustain poverty relief before in-depth reform of the system is possible. To this end, we plan to
improve targeting methods to direct available resources to the most needy and to strengthen the existing
institutional base for more effective provision of poverty relief. We have already begun identifying existing
programs and beneficiary coverage by consolidating the available information which is currently scattered
due to local implementation of programs. This process involves re-defining the beneficiary identification
card for accessing CSW assistance, and establishing and subsequently linking the databases between the
CSW within each Entity.
We further plan to improve the CSWs resource base to enable them both to run the most critical
assistance programs and to finance their basic administrative expenditures. As mentioned above, at present,
financing for CSWs is primarily the responsibility of cantons in the Federation and the municipalities in
Republika Srpska.  We recognize that this creates a potential for translating differences in local fiscal
resources into differentials in the provision of social assistance. Given our extremely tight domestic
finances, in the near term, such pressures could be contained only by (i) continued strong donor assistance;
and (ii) joint efforts with donors to direct available resources to places with the lowest social assistance
capacity.
Our medium-term strategy is to develop a permanent approach for addressing present weaknesses in
financing and governance capacity before the humanitarian assistance is phased out. In order to provide a
sound basis for this exercise, we first intend, with the assistance from donors including the World Bank, to
undertake a comprehensive poverty analysis, built on household income and expenditure surveys. Building
on this analysis, we subsequently intend to determine key aspects of our social assistance strategy, including
the target level of social assistance, criteria for eligibility etc. and other policies with fiscal implications, as
well as the administrative structure and the financing modalities of the new system. In light of these studies,
ongoing work in both Entities to develop the legislative framework for the social assistance strategy will be
further reviewed and revised.
Reforming the Budgetary Management System
During 1998, we made significant progress in establishing the legal basis for the budget process
and in strengthening the budgetary organizational structures. The new Entity laws on the "Principles of the
10



Budget," encompassing a set of key reforms, have been adopted. The coverage and comprehensiveness of
the budgets have been extended by including external cash grants, general budgetary borrowing and related
expenditures into the budget. Necessary provisions have been included in the new budget laws thereby
extending this system to incorporate capital budgets, including externally financed projects. Initial general
frameworks have been adopted to govern domestic and external local govermment borrowing. Other
achievements to date include: (i) significant progress towards introducing new and improved budget
classification systems to create uniform standards across central and local governments and initiate
comprehensive expenditure reporting; (ii) improvements to the accounting systems, including adoption of
regulatory framework for commitments reporting; and (iii) adoption of a rew procurement regulations to
establish a system that promotes open competition and transparency.
As a further aspect of reform efforts aimed at improving fiscal efficiency and controt we anticipate
developing a comprehensive budgetary strategy that will contribute to more efficient budget planning and
execution systems in BiH. We expect that once established, this system would substantially enhance
strategic public resource allocation, ensure efficient resource use and further improve transparency and
accountability in government policies.
Reform of Budget Planning Processes. We have identified several areas in budget planning, which
call for initiating actions. Chief among these are: (i) strengthening the linkage between budgets and
govermment policies and strategies; (ii) integration of the donor-financed investment program -- a relatively
large portion of the total public resource envelope in BiH -- into the budget; (iii) introduction of a medium-
term perspective in the planning of government expenditure programs; and (iv) strengthening the economic
policy and forecasting function in the Entity MoFs and policy and programming capacities within line
ministries as well as co-ordination between the MoFs and the line ministries in budget planing. To address
these issues, we have agreed on a comprehensive reform program, covering budgetary planning processes
and institutions, and initiated implementation in March 1999.
The program has two main elements. The first element involves developing an integrated approach
to budgetary planning and preparation in the form of a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF). The
MTEF will have three building blocks:
*  The first one is the macroeconomic framework, which will provide the basis for projecting
resource base and expenditure allocations as well as the context against which key budget issues
could be analyzed. Initially, we will base it on the IMFl/World Bank framework. In time, as the
economic forecast and analysis capacity within the MoFs is built up, it will increasingly reflect
the MoFs' own analysis. Both Entities have already initiated development of macroeconomic
frameworks to guide their budget preparation for the next year;
*  The second building block is the sector strategy framework, which will establish our overall
policy objectives for the sector as well as strategic program areas and financing requirements
within the sector, consistent with overall resource constraints. This will, in turn, help us
determine the strategic shifts in inter-sectoral resource allocations and provide the basis for
monitoring and evaluating sector program outcomes. As an initial step in this direction, both
Entities have identified a limited number of pilot sectors and have established Sector Working
Groups to develop the initial strategy framework in these pilot sectors (including health,
education and transport in the Federation; and transport, education, and agriculture in Republika
Srpska). We are planning to gradually expand the sector strategy frameworks to cover all the
main sectors by mid-2000;
*  The third building block will be sectoral expenditure plans, covering both recurrent and
investment allocations and the related financing. We recognize that, initially, this would require
a major exercise to incorporate externally financed projects within the Entity budgets.
Nevertheless, we perceive this exercise as a major instrument to enhance, not only our capacity
to set the appropriate balance between capital spending and recurrent spending, but also our
11



ability to maintain fiscal stability once donor assistance is phased out. As a first step in this
direction, we have already started modifying existing databases by recording aid disbursements
more systematically. By the end of 1999, we will have incorporated capital projects in the year
2000 budget plans, including those which are externally funded.
The time horizon for the MTEF will be three years, within which the MTEF would be revised and
"rolled forward" each year. The MTEF will be prepared during the first half of the year in the form of a
"Budget Framework Paper" (BFP); it will be approved by the respective Entity Cabinets. The BFP will then
provide the strategic framework and resource ceilings for the subsequent preparation of the annual Entity
budgets. In the Federation, the MTEF would also incorporate cantonal expenditure plans, with an emphasis
on enhancing the linkages between cantonal expenditure plans and the Federation-wide sector strategies and
the macroeconomic framework. We have already initiated the work towards preparation of the first BFP in
each Entity. To facilitate this, each Entity has established both a BFP Working Group and Sector Working
Groups (SWG). Initially, the SWGs were formed for the above indicated pilot sectors which will be the
focus of the initial BFP. Both Entities intend to finalize draft BFPs for submission to their Cabinets by June
1999, with an emphasis on guiding the subsequent preparation of the 2000 budget. Likewise, by June 2000,
we will have revised this initial BFP to expand its time horizon to three years and submitted it to the Entity
Cabinets in preparation for the 2001 budget cycle.
The second element of our reform program involves strengthening the institutional capacity and
establishing a cooperative approach for budget planing. This entails: consolidating and developing core
expenditure planning functions within the MoFs; developing sector-wide policy and programming functions
within the line ministries; and establishing planing working groups involving representatives of relevant
institutions. As indicated in the above paragraphs, we have already begun implementing these institutional
aspects of the reform program. Cooperation between Entity MoFs and aid coordination units is being
strengthened, and a strategy and timetable for integration of aid management function will have been
adopted by no later than June 2000. In addition, by December 1999, Entities will have established a
Macroeconomic Forecasting Unit within their MOFs. By June 2000, we plan to extend the Sector Working
Groups to all main sectors and establish policy and programming units in the pilot sector ministries involved
in the 1999 BFP exercise.
Reform of Budget Execution Systems. In order to improve public sector cash management, to
increase control over public sector resources and to enhance fiscal transparency, we intend to move
rapidly towards establishment of a treasury system. This will move parallel to our efforts to modernize
the payments system and reorganize the payments bureau functions. At the State level, a program for
development of treasury functions has already been prepared. Accordingly, we intend to begin operation
of centralized payments, a Single State Treasury Account and State Treasury Ledger Accounts by the end
of 1999. At the level of the Entities, the new budget system laws provide the legal basis for establishing
the treasury system. However, the two Entities begin this task from different budgetary systems and
initial institutional arrangements for public sector payments. Therefore, the speed and content of reform
will differ from case to case.
In the Federation, a significant proportion of treasury functions are currently undertaken by the
financial section of the Department of Mutual Services, which will be transferred to the Ministry of
Finance before the end of 1999. In the meantime, to initiate the establishment of a treasury department,
the Federation shall adopt, by June 1999, regulations on the responsibilities of the treasury department,
begin recruitment of staff and begin to develop procedures to transfer accounts from the Payments
Bureau to the Treasury ledger. By December 1999, the Federation shall have completed the transfer of
accounts to the Treasury Ledger for all Budget Institutions, prepared the centralized payments system and
Treasury Single Account, developed the system of commitment reporting and completed staffing of the
treasury department for operation starting from January 2000.
12



In Republika Srpska, establishing the treasury function will begin with segregation of the public
sector transactions from the operations of the Srpska Development Bank. As an initial step towards this
end, Republika Srpska will appoint, in May 1999, a Working Group to develop an action plan for
Treasury development. The Group shall finalize the action plan by the end of June 1999. Building on
this plan, Republika Srpska shall adopt, by September 1999, regulations on the establishment and
responsibilities of the treasury department, begin recruitment of staff, and begin to develop procedures to
transfer accounts from the Srpska Development Bank to the Treasury Ledger. By June 2000, Republika
Srpska shall have completed the transfer of accounts to the Treasury Ledger for all Budget Institutions,
prepared the centralized payments system and the Treasury Single Account, developed the system of
commitment reporting and completed staffing of the treasury department for operation thereafter.
Establishing Auditing Procedures and Institutions
We recognize that establishing a comprehensive audit system is a prerequisite to promoting
transparency and accountability in public sector performance and providing legislative bodies with the
necessary information to exercise control over the executive. Therefore, we plan to create external auditing
procedures and institutions in BiH and to strengthen the regulatory and institutional framework for internal
audit function at both the State and the Entity levels.
As a first step in this direction, we started, in 1998, designing the organizational and functional
framework of the external audit system. The most critical aspect of this work was to determine a feasible
structure that would enable several layers of largely autonomous governments in BiH to undertake sound
audit functions within their jurisdictions, while at the same time ensuring consistency of standards,
methodology and quality across all levels of government. We completed this work in early 1999 and agreed
on the following specific arrangements that would meet these requirements:
* State and Entities shall establish a Supreme Audit Institution (SAI) for carrying out external audit
finctions of respective central and local government activities and organizations. International
Association of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) standards shall form the basis for the audit
system in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
*  State and Entities shall establish a National Coordinating Committee (NCC), comprising their
Auditor-Generals, for setting audit standards, for ensuring consistency of standards, methodology
and quality, for assigning audit responsibility for those activities that extend across the Entities
and/or the State, and for determining representation on international bodies. The NCC will be
chaired by the State Auditor-General and meet according to a fixed schedule on at least a quarterly
basis;
* The State and the Entity Auditor-Generals shall be appointed through a Parliamentary act for a fixed
and non-renewable term;
* The objective of the external audit in both the State and the Entities shall be to carry out:
(i)  compliance audit to ensure that all legal and regulatory requirements have been met, or
report any failures;
(ii) certification audit in the form of a report on the financial statements;
(iii) performance audit (value for money) to measure the performance of individual public
institutions with regard to efficiency, economy and effectiveness.
 The external audit by the SAIs shall embrace all government activities and organizations that are
partially or wholly owned, controlled or funded by public sources or that are provided by an
external organization on loan or grant basis.
We consider the independence and operational integrity of SAIs as central to their effective
operation. To prevent political or other unwanted interference, we shall establish SAIs as constitutional
bodies reporting on their activities to their respective Parliaments at the State, Entity and Canton levels.
However, due to relatively longer process of amending the constitution, they will commence operation
13



under legislation for a transitional period. Their budgets will be charged items on respective government
budgets. In the case of the Federation, the cantons shall also contribute to the cost of the Federation SAI, on
the basis of a fee determined by the size of audit work to be performed on their behalf.
In March 1999, we initiated the process of establishing the above described framework by forming
a Working Group comprising the representatives of the State and the Entities, including cantons in the
Federation. The Group is responsible for the various technical steps leading to the creation of the SAIs. Our
aim is to adopt the legislative and regulatory framework, establish all three SAIs and appoint the key staff by
the end of 1999. To achieve this, we envisage submitting draft legislative framework and budgets for each
SAIs to the respective State and the Entity Parliaments and appointing the State and the Entity Acting
Auditor-Generals by June 10, 1999. The State and the Entity Parliaments will have adopted these legislative
framework and budgets, and appointed Auditor-Generals for their SAIs by August 1999. We will have
begun implementing the legislative and the institutional framework starting in January 2000 which will
enable the SAIs to start preparing and publishing the audit reports thereafter. During this timetable, we also
intend to process necessary amendments for establishing SAIs as constitutional bodies during 2000.
In conjunction with the ongoing work to develop an external auditing system, we intend to
strengthen the internal audit procedures with a special focus to ensure that the two functions would
reinforce, rather than duplicate, each other. Our objective is to develop a framework enabling government
agencies to exercise managerial control within their organizations and to prepare analysis and reports to
management on their systems and practices as well as compliance with budgetary and accounting
requirements. We are considering initiating this process first within the Entity Ministries of Finances,
including cantons in the Federation, and then gradually expanding it into other public institutions and the
State Ministry of Finance once it is established. To this end, by December 1999, both Entities shall have re-
organized the existing Inspection Units with internal control functions, as Internal Audit Units with proper
internal auditing capacity reporting to the Minister of Finance. In the initial stage, these Internal Audit Units
shall be responsible, at a minimum, for compliance audit to improve the control and management of
budgetary expenditures. In the meantime, we will develop a timetable for gradually expanding internal
auditing to include operational efficiency and effectiveness and initiate its implementation during the first
half of 2000.
Strengthening Debt Management Capacity
Since 1998, we have made significant progress towards building the public debt management
structure. The Entity Laws on external debt, consistent with each other and with the State Law on External
Debt, were adopted by both Entities. Debt management units (DMU) were established in the State Ministry
for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER), as well as in each of the two Entities' MOFs. The
London Club and Paris Club Agreements on the rescheduling of BiH's external debt to commercial banks
and official creditors, respectively, were concluded, thereby wiping out a large part of the debt inherited
from the SFRY. An automatic and transparent debt servicing system was established, substantially
improving the regularity of debt service payments; a comprehensive foreign debt tracking system was
established in the State MFTER. Other achievements to date include the signing of: (i) a Protocol on
information sharing between the State, the Entities and CBBH to regularize and streamline the exchange of
debt-related information between various debt management agencies; and (ii) an Agent Agreement between
the State MFTER and the CBBH that acts as the debt servicing agent of the State. The Federation and
Republika Srpska also made their first steps to regulate sub-Entity borrowing, whereby local governments
are allowed to borrow only externally for investment purposes within a certain limit.
The borrowing activity in BiH is currently low due to severely limited financing capacity; a large
proportion of our reconstruction needs continue to be financed by international aid flows. In the medium-
term, however, as aid-flows and concessional financing diminish, alternative sources of external finance,
including borrowing from capital markets, will be a more significant option in financing our reconstruction
14



needs. BiH's access to such external financing will be determined, to a large extent, by the effectiveness and
the prudence of its borrowing arrangements. Developing a strong external debt management capacity,
therefore, remains an important priority for us during the near term.
To achieve this, we are planning to improve the institutional setup and to strengthen borrowing
policies and policy coordination between governments, including the development of a policy framework for
sub-Entity borrowing. As indicated in the above paragraphs, we have already made substantial progress in
creating the legal and institutional setup for external debt management at the State and the Entity levels. We
intend to further these achievements during 1999 by developing policy-making, credit-analysis and
monitoring functions in the State and Entity DMUs that would promote fiscally prudent borrowing
operations. This includes broadening Entity DMU's mandate to manage their debt portfolio, not merely to
execute debt service transactions.
We recognize that to be able to effectively undertake a policy analysis function, the State and the
Entity DMUs must be able to track and control borrowing by lower levels of government and enterprises
and evaluate sub-Entity debt for its sustainability. To develop such coordinated approach in public sector
borrowing, we plan to develop Guidelines building on the present legislative framework. The Guidelines
will establish (i) a comprehensive debt reporting system extending existing reporting procedures to cover
debt liabilities of sub-Entity governments, public enterprises, and utilities as well as liabilities of public
agencies that have separate budgets such as social security funds; (ii) strong and transparent selection,
budgeting and supervision procedures for loans and guarantees; and (iii) procedures for borrowing policy
coordination. The Governments of the Federation and Republika Srpska will begin implementing the
Guidelines starting in the 2000 budgetary year.
Through the implementation of the Guidelines, we particularly aim to enforce ceilings on the
amount of annual borrowing allowed for sub-Entity governments as specified in the Entity Budget System
Laws. To this end, the guidelines shall establish (i) reporting requirements with sufficient detail on tenns
and purpose of loans to enable the DMUs to prepare reliable debt service projections and to control the fiscal
risk; (ii) budgeting procedures that will allow for tracking the real value of obligations outstanding; (iii)
monitoring criteria that will help track the utilization of loan proceeds and the progress of the project.
Likewise, the guidelines shall establish clear procedures for the issuance of State and Entity guarantees
concerning external borrowing of sub-Entity governments and enterprises (as allowed by the existing
legislation) while prohibiting the issuance of guarantees by sub-Entity governments for certain duration. To
facilitate the effective implementation of the guidelines, we shall have created, by the end of 1999, debt
databases in each Entities' MoFs (in DMUs) and introduced compulsory reporting procedures for all public
sector borrowing. The Entity MoFs will share such data with the State MFTER.
In addition, we plan to strengthen policy-coordination between the State and the Entity DMU's in
order to harmonize borrowing plans with the country's ability to service its external debt. The separation of
borrowing, debt servicing responsibility, and fiscal authority in BiH creates potential for a free rider
problem which could be limited by coordination of borrowing strategies. This, in turn, would substantially
enhance the creditworthiness of all borrowers, both public and private. The State External Debt Law
provides for the establishment of a high-level Debt Advisory Committee, with representation from all State
and Entity agencies involved in managing sovereign external debt. In 1996, we created a prototype of this
Committee which analyzed the consistency of external debt information and prepared for the external debt
renegotiations that took place during the past three years. As the relations with external creditors are
regularized, we are planning to proceed with the creation of the Debt Advisory Committee in early-2000.
The Committee will gradually assume the functions of piloting the country's debt strategy.
We hope that the above elaboration of the program for the reform of our public finance systems
has clearly expressed our commitment to modernizing our economy and putting it on a sound and
15



sustainable path to growth and prosperity. The continued contribution of the World Bank together with
other agencies is an essential part of this difficult endeavor.
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
snia and Herzegovina
Mr. F   Bicakcic                                  Mr. Mi:orad Dodik
ri5e Minister 7'                                    Prin . M;Q der
Fe         0                                               Rep14ka Sesra
Mr. ra    Cavic                                   Mr. Novak Kondic
Dpep  y ister and/                                     Minister
l\   Miryastor                            R ELeRubeIka Srpska
Fede      Mstyofnc                                                            XXFinance
16



ANNEX III
HEALTH FINANCE REFORM PROGRAM
Introduction
1.     This Annex presents a summary of key issues and objectives for the reform of health sector
finance in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). The pre-war system is reviewed in para 2 which is followed
by a review of the post-war situation, including legislative framework and support provided by IDA and
other donors to Government's reform efforts. The annex concludes with priority tasks to ensure a
successful reform of health sector finance.
The pre-war situation
2.   Estimates of pre-war total health expenditure vary. According to the Federation Ministry of Health
(MOH), in 1991 it was about US$245 per capita, or 8.2 percent of GNP'. This was on the high side of the
range encountered in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. Until the early 1990's, the health system
in BiH was financed through governmental institutions called "self-management communities of interest"
(SIZ). These provided health insurance, social security and disability benefits to employees and their
families.  Insurance revenues were obtained from  compulsory contributions from  employers and
employees (gross salaries), pensions and other personal incomes at an average rate of about 9-12 percent,
as well as through contributions paid by farmers. The health sector was already facing a trend of
expenditures in excess of revenues before the war.
The post-war situation2
3.   The total health expenditure was DEM420 million (US$280 million), of which 86 percent was in
the Federation. Expenditures exceeded income in both Entities. The actual overspending was larger in
the Federation, but was greater in proportion to income in RS. Consolidated overspending was US$11
million. Consolidated expenditures were 7 percent of GDP. Actual expenditures may be higher, the
Health Resource Account under-estimated the value of out-of-pocket payments made for private health
services and some co-payments in the public sector. Health expenditure per capita has declined from
DEM364 (US$245) in 1990 to DEM1 13.5 (US$75) in 1997.
4.   Policies, legislation and regulations. For clarity in examining the main issues regarding health care
financing and payment mechanisms, it is important to distinguish among the following three:
* Revenue generation, structure and efficiency of the proposed finance regime: Health services
may be financed largely through general revenues, payroll taxes, user fees, or some combination
of all three. The Government of the Federation has already passed a Health Care Law in 1997
(i.e. health insurance legislation), which becomes the practical starting point for discussions and
possible amendments. A Health Insurance Law is under preparation in RS.
* A politically acceptable and effective system for establishing solidarity based health finance
system between cantons in the Federation and regions in the Republika Srspka. This is required
Source: Federation Ministry of Health: Strategic Health System Plan (Draft). 1998.
2 Source: Unless otherwise specified, materials contained in this section were obtained from the Health Resource Accounts in
Bosnia and Herzegovina - Report of the methodology and results from the pilot year, 1999. It was produced with technical
assistance from the U.K. Department for International Development. The data were for 1997.



if the poorer cantons or regions are to be able to afford essential health services. It is also a
source of political tension.
Management of health services within each canton or region. There is a need to examine the
statutes, regulations and tools to ensure an effective balance between Entity-level responsibilities
for setting policies, standards and guidelines, and cantonal- or regional- level responsibilities for
management of services.
5.     Health sectorfinance in the Federation. The Federation MOH in 1998 prepared a "Strategic Health
System Plan", in consultation with Cantonal MOHs and with support from the World Health Organization.
This document identifies in broad terms key health sector goals of universal access, equity and efficiency'.
Furthermore, the Federation MOH has issued in December 1998 a more detailed "Policy and Strategy of
Health Financing Reform in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina"4. It was prepared with support
from EU-PHARE, the World Bank and the Government of the United Kingdom. In this comprehensive
document, the Federal MOH specified its commitment and implementation plan for a successful health
finance reform, with the following objectives: (i) to establish a uniform health care system in the Federation
which will be based on the cantonal organization as opposed to the ethnic one; (ii) to develop a sustainable
health finance system by means of health insurance and also by mobilizing all available resources in the
community for health care; (iii) to control the expenditures at the macro level; (iv) to develop instruments
for the implementation of the health policy objectives through the contracting process; (v) to improve
institutional efficiency; (vi) to promote the principles of solidarity; and (vii) to promote pluralism in
ownership patterns. In particular, the document has considered the issues of federal solidarity, priority
setting in health care, equity, advantages of decentralization and economies of scale.
6.     The Federation Law On Health Care of 1997 envisages a canton-based extra-budgetary health
insurance system, financed by earmarked payroll tax contributions. Recognizing that such a system will
lead to undesirable small risk pools, it also provides for the creation of a Federation level health insurance
fund, responsible for certain joint health care functions. To date, progress in establishing this system has
been modest. Cantonal extra-budgetary health insurance funds were to be created by February 1998, but
only a few cantons have established such funds.  Several cantons continue to deposit health care
contributions in the general cantonal budget, with a lack of clarity in resource flow and allocation. In some
mixed cantons, certain municipalities are covered by cantonal funds other than the one in which they are
resident. This is contrary to the 1997 Law On Health Care and the Dayton Accords. As for the Federation
level structure, the Federation Health Insurance Fund was established, and its Director was appointed in
December 1998. Nonetheless, both the services to be provided by the fund and financing sources have yet
to be specified.
7.     The effectiveness of this system in reducing the existing wide variations across cantons in access to
health services, and in enhancing the overall health service delivery in Federation, critically depends on the
design of the Federation level Insurance Fund. The Fund is expected to undertake a major responsibility in:
(i) ensuring that all eligible residents of the Federation have access to basic health care services; (ii)
financing services with Federation-wide benefits, such as eligible tertiary care services and highly
specialized services that can only be delivered effectively in a limited number of locations for a larger risk
pool; and (iii) providing technical and managerial assistance in operation of the cantonal health insurance
funds, including centralized procurement of medical supplies.
3 Source: Federation Ministry of Health: Strategic Health System Plan 1998
4 Source: Federation Ministry of Health. Policy and Strategy for Health Financing Reform in the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Sarajevo. December 1998.
2



8.    To effectively undertake these functions, the Fund must have an effective lead role for technical
support in the health system, as well as sufficient financing resources. The resource base of the Fund is
currently envisaged to constitute no less than one-fifth of the total health contributions. The Federation
government also needs to determine an affordable package of basic health care services that will be
provided across the Federation, with options for additional services to be financed at the cantonal level. The
technical work towards this was initiated with assistance from the World Bank under the Health Finance
Reform Component of the Essential Hospital Services Project and is being supported by the Health Finance
Project of EU-PHARE, and by the Government of the United Kingdom. The Federation is considering
taking the actions necessary to complete the establishment of cantonal funds and to specify the parameters
of the Federation fund before the end of this year so that health contributions can start flowing into the
cantonal funds and the Federation fund can start operating in the new fiscal year.
9.   Health care finance in Republika Srpska. The health care system in the Republika Srpska is being
financed mainly by payroll taxes, as is the case in the Federation. There are also transfers from the
budget to bridge any critical financing gaps for the provision of basic health services. The Republika
Srpska government is considering introducing new Health Insurance Law in 1999. The draft statutes
include provisions for a "solidarity fund" to promote risk pooling. Coverage of the insured would include
a "basic minimum package of services", which is currently being defined, as well as eligible tertiary
health services and vertical programs of public health importance. A major challenge is to implement
incentives and sanctions to improve collection.
10.  The subject of a "basic package" of services needs to be treated with caution in both Entities.
Although it was advocated by the World Bank in the 1993 World Development Report, its
implementation is fraught with serous risks of failure. From a social and political perspective, the public
is highly unlikely to give up what it has theoretically been entitled tofiree of charge. Therefore, the
implementation of a system emphasizing health gains through cost-effective services would not be
enabled by a mechanistic definition of positive and negative lists of services. It would be enabled by the
use of management tools and incentives to influence the behaviors of service providers and consumers.
Such tools and incentives would encourage the delivery and use of more cost-effective services through
the use of epidemiological information, cost-effectiveness, health technology assessment and business
planning, the refinement and use of essential drug lists, rational use of drugs, targeted interventions, as
well as a careful introduction of formal co-payments where appropriate.
Health Finance Reform
11.   The Government of each Entity is working with the World Bank, EU-PHARE and DFID to
achieve the objectives of defining sector policy and strategic plans. The near-term objectives include the
completion of the following in each Entity: (i) a detailed revenue and expenditure study of the health
sector, with the preparation of a National Health Account; (ii) studies on developing approaches to
priority setting in health; and (iii) policy documents, strategic plans and indicative timelines for a phased
approach to the rationalization of infrastructure and reform of management systems throughout the health
sector.
12.   The main themes of the ongoing work are as agreed with the Entity Governments under the
Essential Hospital Services project [IDA(ITF) Credit Number N003-0 BOS, Document Number T-699 1-
BiH, Appendix 12, paragraph 4.3.1.]. Recent major activities include a six-day workshop and study tour
to the Netherlands, and a three-day study tour and workshop in Slovenia for technical experts and policy
makers from both Entities. The workshops were organized jointly by the EU-PHARE Health Finance
Program and the World Bank. Drafts of the policy papers were completed in the Slovenia workshop in
the middle of December 1998. At this workshop, Ministers of Health and other representatives of both
Entities also agreed to establish a Committee for Inter-Entity Coordination, to address health sector issues
3



where joint work is necessary or desirable. The Basic Health Project, approved by the World Bank on
May 4, 1999, will support implementation of incentives and changes in provider payment methods to
increase productivity and to control costs in primary care.
13.   More specifically, the following are the near-team tasks in support of health finance reform:
In order to strengthen the basis for strategic decisions in the health sector, the following will be
completed in both Entities by December 1999:
(i) A comprehensive Health Account: Each Entity has already completed a Health Account,
covering public sector revenues and expenditures. During the second half of CY99, a study of
private, out-of-pocket expenditures will be done, to provide a complete Health Account for each
Entity.
(ii) Studies on feasible approaches to priority setting in health services: This will include
considerations of the most effective approach to implementing a basic package of health
services in each Entity. It will consider technical and social factors to ensure a successful
implementation. Management tools and incentives will be developed to encourage the use of
more cost-effective health services and to discourage the use of less cost-effective health
services.
(iii) A study of public expectations, understanding and perceptions of the health system. This
information will enable the health system to be more responsive to the needs of the population.
* Preparations are underway for these tasks, with support from the World Bank, the Government
of the United Kingdom and the Health Finance Project of EU-PHARE.
  By December 1999, in the Federation, establishment of the Cantonal Health Insurance Funds as
provided for in the 1997 Law On Health Care. In this regard, the Federation Government and
the Cantonal Governments will develop, by September 1999, essential guidelines to facilitate
operations of the Cantonal Health Insurance Funds, with reference to: (a) revenue collection
from extra-budgetary taxes earmarked for health and (b) transparency in the flow of funds.
*  By December 1999, in the Federation, development of guidelines to facilitate operations of the
Federation Health Insurance Fund, with reference to the following:
(i) Solidarity: The objectives are to: (i) ensure that all eligible residents of the Federation have
access to basic health services; (ii) cover the costs of eligible tertiary services; and (iii) cover the
costs of vertical programs of public health significance, for example, tuberculosis control.
(ii) Source of revenues for the Federation Health Insurance Fund: Revenues for the Federation
Health Insurance will be derived from payroll taxes. In principle, this could be up to 20 percent
of cantonal insurance revenues, as defined in the 1998 "Policy and Strategy for Health Financing
Reform in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina", and as agreed during a meeting of
representatives of the Federation Ministry of Health, Federation Health Insurance Fund, Cantonal
Ministries of Health and Cantonal Health Insurance Funds on April 21, 1999.
(iii) Technical and managerial support to be provided by Federation Health Insurance Fund (as
the lead agency on health finance) to the Cantonal Health Insurance Funds. This will include
centralized procurement of specified medical supplies, to explore economies of scale.
4



Adoption, by the Government of the Federation, of amendments to the 1997 Law On Health
Care, to provide a legal mandate for the funding, operations and functions of the Federation
Health Insurance Fund. We will ensure that this is achieved by June, 2000.
By December 1999, in Republika Srpska, the Government will develop guidelines to enable
effective operations of the Republika Srpska Public Health Insurance Fund and the four
Regional Branches. Guidelines will establish: (i) procedures for improving transparency in
budgeting and usage of health contributions; (ii) incentives/sanctions to improve collection; (iii)
procedures for strengthening coordination between the central fund and its branch offices; and
(iv) prototypes of contracts to guide the purchasing of health services.
5



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
Table 1: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic Indicators
Estimate                                 Projected
Indicator                1995    1996    1997       1998     1999      2000     2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Grossdomesticproduct                      100      100      100      100      100      100       100      100       100      100      100
Agriculture
Industry
Services
Exports (GNFS)'                           20       24       29       33       34        34       35        35       36        36       36
Imports (GNFS)                            71       83       76       70       59        54       50        46       43       41        40
Memorandum items
Grossdomesticproduct                     1867    2741    3423       4082     4533      5333     6262      7090     7731      8386     9080
(US$ million at current
prices)
Real annual growth rates
%, calculated from 1995
prices)
Gross domestic product at                         69      30        18       8        14        14       10        6         5        5
market prices
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 prices
Gross domestic product at                                 28        17       7        13        13        9        5        4         4
market prices
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)a                          381     658      1002     1367      1541     1816     2162      2498     2796      3044     3293
Merchandise FOB                        152     336      575      817       955      1131     1387      1628     1843     2008      2169
Imports (GNFS)a                         1334    2278    2606      2864      2659     2863      3124     3234      3358     3460     3596
Merchandise FOB                       1082    1882    2333       2573     2397      2586     2826     2935      3051     3152      3278
Resource balance                        -953    -1620   -1604    -1498    -1118    -1047    -962         -736     -562      -416     -303
Netcurrenttransfers                     1002    1094      772       510      311      281       245      210       170      104       37
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                 -193    -748    -1060    -1127    -896        -879     -831      -640     -504      -424     -350
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                0        0       0        100       60      162       185      200       200      200      200
investment
Long-term loans (net)                   -271     439       12       43       24        117      190      146       144       96       39
Other capital (net, including            578     542      959      1015      944      648       528      390       242      182       161
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesb                     -114    -232       89       -31      -132     -48       -72      -96       -82      -54       -50
(continued)



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Table 1: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Projected
Indicator                 1995    1996    1997       1998      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                     -51      -59     -47       -37      -25       -20       -15      -10       -7        -5       -3
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1995 prices)
Merchandise exports                                155      78       40        14        15       19        14       10        6         5
(FOB)
Merchandise imports                                S0       40       1I       -10        5        6         1         1        0         1
(CIF)
Public Sector Balances
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)
Expenditures                               36       78       56       52        48       48        47        44       43        42       40
Revenues                                   29       51       31       32        31       35        36        37       38        38       38
Deficit (-)                                -7       -27     -25       -20      -17       -13       -11       -7        -5       -4       -2
External Financing                         7        27       23       20        17        13       11        7         5        4         2
Others, incl. Arrears                       0       0        -2        0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                 21       28       34                     ..        ..        ..       ..        ..
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                          9        96       52        ..       ..       ..        ..        ..
Price indices(1995=100)
Implicit GDP deflators
(% change)
Federation                              -40.4    9.1       13.7      2.0       ..       ..        ..        ..       ..
Republika Sirpska                        53.1    -35.7    -0.4       9.8       ..       ..        ..        ..       ..
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
Source: Official data and staff estimates.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
Table 2: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Exposure Indicators
Projected
Indicator                   1995    1996    1997      1998     1999     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     2005
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a                       3360    3884    4343    2879       3264     3632     3983      4289     4535     4758     4950
Netdisbursements(US$m)'                                231     135      211      128       198      198      114      104       88       77
Total debt service (TDS)
(US$m)'                                       513      573     385       122      117      152      151      162       170      177      168
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGS'                                    882      590     433      211      212       200      184       172      162      156      150
TDO/GDP                                      156     117      127      71       72       68        64       60       59       57       55
TDS/XGS                                      135      87      38       9         8        8        7        6         6        6        5
Concessional/TDO                              ..      ..      ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                             14      2        9       29        37       29       30       43        41       39       40
Preferred creditor DS/public DS (%)e         22       3        10      33        62       41       47       78       68        48       45
IBRD DS/XGS                                   19      2        3        3        3        2         2        3        2        2        2
IBRD TDO (US$m)d                            623      596      596     596       596      596      604      594       589      584      560
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)                  0.5     0.5      0.5      ..        ..       ..       ..       ..
IDA exposure indicators (%)
IDA DS/public DS                              ..     0.0      0.5      2.5      3.5      3.2      3.7       3.8      3.9      3.8      4.2
IDA DS/XGS                                    ..     0.0      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2
IDATDO (US$m)d                               ..      191      291     433       533      633      723      803       863      913      913
IFC (US$m)
Loans                                        15       15       8        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Equity and quasi-equity'                      0       0        0        ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                       0        0        0        ..      ..        ..       ..       ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital. After debt rescheduling.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
Source: Official data and staff estimates.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28578R
16                             To Zagreb                             1 8          To Osijek
TO ZaToZgreb                              CROATIA                         To Vinkovci 
ToPrOsipjek
To            KI. Gli _ ffiSo BeTgrSde
@~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10 20                                                                                30 r; 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nc znc                                OC 
CROATIA                                                                                                                         R           LD
=E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
Knin                                                                                                                           4 _  =
44o                                                                               e    f/ 
T,fO                                                       TO9
O TOBR19



