                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26040

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-23344; TF-23282; IDA-32580)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR53.2 MILLION
                                   (US$72 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                    BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

           FOR A SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                              JUNE 2, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (ECSPE)
Europe and Central Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective jUNE 2, 2003)

                    Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka
                              KM = US$ 0.60
                              US$ = 1.67KM

                          FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1   December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CEM                  Country Economic Memorandum
ESW                  Economic and Sector Work
EU                         European Union
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Agency
LDP                  Letter of Development Policy
LSMS         Living Standards Measurement Survey
OHR          Office of the High Representative
PFSAC Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PFSAC II       Second Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS                   Republika Srpska
TA                   Technical Assistance
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights

                  Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn
      Country Manager/Director:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
        Sector Manager/Director:      Cheryl W. Gray
              Task Team Leader:       Saumya Mitra

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                                           PFSAC 2


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P055432                                                      Project Name: PFSAC 2
Team Leader: Saumya Mitra                                                TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 9, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PFSAC 2                                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-23344; TF-23282;
                                                                                                     IDA-32580
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Other social services
                            (13%); Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (13%);
                            Health (12%); Sub-national government administration (12%)
                  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (P); Social risk coping (S);
                            Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/21/1999                                        Effective:
   Appraisal:    03/30/1999                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/24/1999                                         Closing:

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/MIN. FIN. BH;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/MIN. FIN. FEDERATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                              Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Cheryl W. Gray                                      Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:        Saumya Mitra                                        Sebnem Akkaya
ICR Primary Author(s): Saumya Mitra; Jean-Luc
                           Bernasconi; Irina Smirnov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S

                   Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit-II was to help create the
conditions for sustainable economic growth through a strengthening of public finances. Reform
of public finances was seen as vital to establishing the credibility of policies to undertake
successfully the transition to a market economy, complete the recovery from the conflict of
1992-95, and lay the basis for a robust private sector supply response. Strengthened fiscal
capacity was also the cornerstone on which country creditworthiness was to be built.

The specific objectives of the public finance reform programme supported by PFSAC-II were: (i)
strengthened domestic resource mobilization, through improved policy and administrative
coordination both between and within the Entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska; (ii) the introduction of strategic public resource
allocation, including through investment planning; (iii) the improvement of revenue and
expenditure assignments at different levels of government and, hence, more efficient provision of
public services within the Entities; (iv) the creation of a fiscally viable social safety net with a
greater focus on poverty alleviation in the transitional period till the resource base of the system
was strengthened to allow provision of comprehensive social assistance; (v) the setting up of
institutional and regulatory frameworks for improving transparency and accountability of
government finance; and (vi) the strengthening of country-wide policy coordination in external
debt management, including developing a policy framework for sub-Entity borrowing.

The Reform Strategy

Context. The project's objective was framed in the context of the need to build Dayton-mandated
institutions in public finance at both the level of the state and its two constituent entities and to
strengthen public finance policies so as to reap gains in efficiency on both the revenue and
expenditure sides. It also built upon the achievements of the first Public Finance Structural
Adjustment Credit (1998-99) under which basic public finance policies and institutions had been
established.

Under the Dayton peace settlement (December 1995), Bosnia and Herzegovina was organised as
a highly decentralised country. The responsibility of the sovereign state was limited to
international relations and inter-Entity coordination. Its economic powers were confined to
operating a central bank (organized as a currency board) with a new currency, setting customs
and trade policies, conducting international financial relations (including servicing of international
debts and debt management) and coordination in telecommunication and transport; no tax-raising
powers were provided. In contrast, the Entity governments had exclusive responsibility in their
respective territories over practically all matters of public policy (except, as noted above, those of
the State) and public administration; specifically in the economic sphere, over taxation, customs
administration, and all public spending. The Entities themselves were considerably decentralised
-- the Federation particularly so with a three-tier fiscal system: the Federation government,
cantons, and municipalities, with major expenditure responsibilities resting with the cantons; the



                                                  - 2 -

RS had a two-tier structure: the entity government and municipalities, with limited local fiscal
authority.

Achievements by project initiation. In the first three years of peace (1996-98), Bosnia and
Herzegovina made rapid progress in the reconstruction of its economy and infrastructure. It also
took strides towards fulfilling the Dayton framework for setting up public institutions and putting
in place economic policies designed to progress to a market economy. Donor engagement in the
form of funds for investment and technical assistance was massive and there was intense external
engagement also in providing political guidance and support to the State and Entity governments.


By mid-1999, when PFSAC-II was approved, key institutions and policies were in place. The
central bank was functioning highly efficiently and had issued a convertible national currency in a
liberal regime for external payments; legislative and regulatory frameworks for the banking sector
and for bank and enterprise privatization were in place; a liberal trade regime had been enacted,
with a low, uniform customs tariff. Specifically on public finances, the financing means and
mechanisms for the institutions of the State had been agreed, a legislative framework for budget
management and an institutional and legislative framework for debt management were functioning
at the level of the State and the Entities, steps towards a reform of pension systems had been
initiated, and first measures towards harmonization of tax systems across the Entities had been
taken. These public finance reforms were supported by PFSAC-I. Significant progress has also
been achieved in removing barriers to the movement of goods and people within the country.

The reform vision. Strengthened public finances were seen as a key instrument for ensuring the
viability of Bosnia and Herzegovina in several senses. First, there was the need to build up a
sense of nationhood and national unity through supporting the state, improving inter-Entity
cooperation and creating a common restriction-free economic space throughout the land.
Second, large efficiency gains were envisaged through improvements in tax policies, tax
administration and tax harmonisation between the Entities as well as by raising standards in the
provision of essential public services, notably health and pensions, and in ensuring their
sustainability. Third, the enhancement of transparency and accountability through budget system,
audit, and debt management reforms was designed to increase public confidence in governance
and to fight corruption. The reform vision encompassed paving the way for a self-sustaining
government sector that would rely on its own resources and institutions in designing and
implementing the policies required for long-term development as donor support was gradually
wound down. Moreover, an efficient and light system of taxes, a liberal customs regime, efficient
provision of needed public goods, and Entities working in close economic cooperation to create
the environment for private investment were also envisioned.

Much remained to be done in building a framework for sustainable fiscal management. In the
Federation, the customs, tax and the payments systems continued to be fragmented reflecting the
war-time division on ethnic lines, but a start had been made in unifying tax policies and progress
has been achieved in establishing canton-level fiscal administration. However, co-ordination
between Entity and local governments was weak. In summary, fragmented policies and practices
largely continued within the fiscal structure of the Federation. The Republika Srpska had barely



                                                   - 3 -

initiated basic fiscal reforms. At the State level, the institutional and legislative framework
envisaged by the Dayton Accords had begun to function, but cooperation between the Entities in
key areas of economic management was absent or weak. For Bosnia and Herzegovina to start
functioning as a unified State these initial efforts toward policy harmonization and coordination
needed to be deepened and strengthened.

Therefore, the key challenge faced by the country was deepening structural reforms in public
finances. The Credit aimed to assist the authorities in meeting this challenge by supporting further
effort in institution-building and policy reforms in (i) broadening tax policy harmonization and
strengthening administrative co-operation between the Entities; (ii) improving equity in the
provision of public services; (iii) developing an affordable social safety net; (iv) improving fiscal
efficiency and control; (v) establishing audit institutions; and (vi) strengthening country-wide
policy coordination in external debt management.

Macroeconomic Framework

The economic recovery of Bosnia and Herzegovina since the end of the war has been impressive
and has been accompanied throughout by solid macroeconomic performance. The institution of a
currency board arrangement underpinning a convertible local currency ensured monetary stability
and a low rate of inflation; currently inflation is around zero. The requirement to balance budgets
on a cash basis (excluding donor financing) imparted fiscal discipline. Discipline in public finances
has also been assisted by a radical strengthening of the banking regulatory regime and by the
privatisation of banks and closure of inadequately capitalised ones. As a result, substantial
re-monetization of the economy has taken place. Small enterprise privatisation is all but
complete. The trade and customs regime has been liberal and progress on market-oriented
structural reforms has taken place, if at too slow a pace. Internal formal and informal restrictions
on the free movement of goods, capital and labour across the entities have been removed, and
inter-entity commerce has boomed.




                                                  - 4 -

                                             1997       1998       1999     2000      2001      2002
              Real GDP Growth (% p.a.)
                               Actual /Est  36.60      15.60       9.60     5.50      4.50      3.80
                           Est./Projected   ..         ..          8.00   14.00     14.00      10.00
            Real Export Growth (% p.a.)
                               Actual /Est  78.00      40.00     13.00      6.00      3.20      4.37
                           Est./Projected   ..         ..        14.00    15.00     14.00      14.00
               Fiscal Balance (%of GDP)
                               Actual /Est (25.00)    (20.00)    (9.10)  (10.00)     (5.80)    (4.30)
                           Est./Projected   ..         ..       (17.00)  (13.00)   (11.00)     (7.00)
    Current Account Balance (% of GDP)
                               Actual /Est (47.00)    (37.00)    (8.20)  (12.50)   (15.50)    (19.00)
                           Est./Projected   ..         ..       (25.00)  (20.00)   (15.00)    (10.00)
         Gross External Debt (% of GDP)
                               Actual /Est  ..         64.70     68.20    64.60     53.30      47.20
                           Est./Projected   ..         ..        72.01    68.10     63.61      60.49
                       Inflation (% p.a.)
                               Actual /Est  10.00       3.00       3.40     5.10      3.10      0.30
                           Est./Projected   ..         ..         ..       ..        ..        ..


Generous donor financing of the reconstruction and public investment budget has been
instrumental in supporting economic growth. After GDP growth averaging over 60 per cent in
the first two post-conflict years, growth slowed to 10 per cent in the late 1990s and has recently
been averaging around 4 per cent. External debt write-offs of around 70 per cent in net present
value terms from both bilateral and commercial creditors have freed up resources for internal
spending. As donor support has taken the form of grants, external debt indicators remain
comfortable: total external debt service in relation to exports of goods and non-factor services
ranges at 8-10 per cent.

This encouraging macroeconomic performance has taken place with the support of IMF
arrangements since the end of the conflict. At PFSAC-II approval, Bosnia and Herzegovina was
in the middle of a two-year standby arrangement for SDR94 million. Upon the expiry of this
successful arrangement, a 15 month standby for SDR68 million was agreed and Bosnia and
Herzegovina remains in compliance with its undertakings under the arrangement.
Macroeconomic performance has also been underpinned by public finance reforms (described
earlier) under Bank credits and Fund programmes, by improvements in the climate for investment
and by privatisation -- also part of Bank support. In addition, the country has received copious
technical assistance from the Bank, the Fund and bilateral partners in practically all spheres of the
economy.

Despite the record of continued macroeconomic stability, pursuit of structural reforms, and large
scale donor assistance, job creation remains the Achilles' heel of the economy and poverty is
widespread. Growth has dented unemployment insufficiently -- the rate of unemployment remains
around 40 per cent; adjusted for informal sector activities, unemployment is, perhaps, of the order
of 20 per cent. The LSMS study shows that 20 per cent of the population are poor. The poor are
disproportionately present in small towns and villages and long term displaced persons and
refugees are at significantly higher risk. At high risk are also the young, the poorly educated, and



                                                 - 5 -

families with only one earner.

Over the medium term, macroeconomic vulnerabilities will arise as the country faces the challenge
of supplanting external support (with a winding down of extraordinary donor assistance) with
domestic resources, whilst reducing the extremely high share of public expenditures in GDP
(around 60 per cent) and also trimming the tax burden (around 50 per cent) that is required to
release resources to the private sector. Both these ratios are excessive by any standards and are
not consistent with macroeconomic stability over the medium term.

Some of the adjustment will be assisted by the termination of the reconstruction-type investments,
but a strong effort at expenditure reduction will, nonetheless, be required to preserve
macroeconomic stability and keep debt indicators within prudent bounds. Indeed, Bosnia and
Herzegovina faces the twin challenges of sharply cutting public spending whilst raising the quality
of public spending. A sharp reduction in spending on wages and goods and services is required
hand in hand with civil service reform to reduce the public sector payroll and direct staff to high
priority managerial activities. Defence and veterans expenditures are also far too high.

Room will also have to be found for normal investment in public goods, adequate operations and
maintenance, for making good some implicit or contingent liabilities of the government, and
possibly for social assistance. Moreover, expenditure demands will arise from one-time (but
significant) costs associated with accelerated refugee returns, military demobilisation, and
downsizing public enterprise operations. The major gains in the quality, i.e., efficiency and equity,
in public spending will have to come in the social sectors. Unit costs in education (extremely high
by international comparisons) need to be reduced through reforms and the cost of social spending
(health, education, social assistance, pensions) will have to be kept within the resource envelope,
whilst significant efficiency and equity gains will have to be sought.

Greater private sector participation in service delivery and privatisation of large enterprises and
utilities are required to support medium term fiscal adjustment. These actions will reduce
pressures on public spending, while tax revenues can be expected to benefit from efficiency
improvements. The reforms supported by PFSAC-II have set the stage for the medium term fiscal
adjustment task.

Clarity and Realism of Objectives

The PFSAC-II was undertaken under the aegis of FY98-99 Country Assiatance Strategy (CAS),
as updated by the July 1998 CAS Progress Report (IDA/R98-111). In their Policy Statement of
mid-1998, the authorities identified their highest priority as the reduction of unemployment
through the pursuit of (i) macroeconomic stability; (ii) public finance reform; and (iii) private
sector development. The CAS was designed to support these objectives and it identified
inter-entity cooperation as key to driving the implementation of the development agenda. The
CAS Progress Report elaborated on the then-planned PFSAC-II, focussing on the contribution
discipline in public finances would make to the overall structural reform programme. The project
as approved and implemented was fully in line with the CAS.




                                                 - 6 -

The project objectives were articulated clearly and were of central relevance to Bosnia and
Herzegovina's objective of consolidating economic recovery. The expectations for the
achievement of project objectives were realistic. The objectives were precise in their formulation
and the relationships to their supporting reform components were clearly explained. The links to
the overarching public policy goals -- strong, self-sustained private sector led growth leading to a
fall in unemployment -- were delineated and discussed in project documents. Nevertheless, the
project could have provided a better sense of the priorities within the objectives and the related
reform components. Clearly, not all objectives were of equal weight or value; moreover, the
trade-offs between them could have been more explicitly identified. Similarly, a discussion might
have been provided of, for example, why reform steps in health were included but not education
in social sector reforms, though education faced equally serious problems and project preparation
had studied the education sector. The documentation should also have elaborated on the medium
term fiscal constraints faced by Bosnia and Herzegovina and built them in into the design.

The high degree of relevance of the project can be seen from the fact that the Policy Statement of
the authorities of the State and the Entities had considered the PFSAC-II supported reforms as a
key pillar. The sound realism of the objectives arises from the achievements of the earlier
operation, PFSAC-I that was fully complied with and disbursed within one year. The authorities
had already taken some of the key actions prior to Board presentation of PFSAC-II and had
continued to demonstrate their commitment to following through. Critical among these actions
were entity implementation of State-set tariffs and elimination of special trade agreements of each,
entity equalisation of excises on domestic and imported goods, rationalisation of tax exemptions,
design of Federation legislation on pension fund unification, establishment of entity working
groups on budget system reforms, and, by project effectiveness, design of entity legislation on
setting up audit institutions. The project was also prepared and appraised at a time of significantly
improving inter-entity cooperation, notably in the fiscal field, and a strong, coordinated donor
effort to provide political and financial incentives for bolstering cooperation.

The reform agenda supported by the operation was ambitious in its scope covering diverse
elements within public finances and the timetable for project implementation was equally
ambitious. This tight timetable imparted an internal discipline to maintain the reform momentum
on a wide front, but, in the event, the totality of reforms needed an additional year for completion.
Looking at the overall reform achievements, a period of three and a half years to complete
successfully a wide-ranging and ambitious reform agenda such as the one supported by PFSAC-II
clearly cannot be faulted as being too long; indeed, it stands up well to international comparison.

Evaluation of Benefits and Risks

        The major benefits of the operation were identifed as the consolidation of the public
finance reforms began under the PFSAC-I, thereby substantially strengthening the prospects for
continued fiscal stability; adding to the sustainability of the structural reform process; and the
reintegration of the economy. The reforms would promote free flow of goods between the
Entities and improve tax revenue collection by completing harmonization of major tax structures,
strengthening administrative co-operation and revenue distribution. They would facilitate
development of a robust intergovernmental system and improve efficiency and coverage of public



                                                  - 7 -

sector services. Medium-term imbalance between revenues and expenditures would be corrected
and public outlays would reflect priorities more closely. Benefits would also arise from
improvements in the financial viability and targeting of the pension system, the design of an
equitable and sustainable social safety net, and greater equity in the provision of health services in
both Entities. Finally, the institution of sound auditing procedures was expected to enhance
accountability of public service operations.

These envisaged benefits have been realized. As noted, fiscal stability was maintained, overall tax
revenues rose and tax administration was strengthened, but, clearly, there is a major task of
medium term fiscal adjustment that lies ahead. The reforms supported by PFSAC-II were key to
the entire structural reform programme as given in the Policy Statement of the authorities of
mid-1998; without these measures, other reforms relating to private sector development and
privatisation and social sector modernisation would have foundered for lack of fiscal stability.
These measures were also central to the re-integration of the economy and the creation of a
common economic space free of distortions, unwarranted tax competition, and losses in revenues
owing to lack of inter-entity cooperation. Finally, they served an important political economy
objective in fostering the conditions for inter-entity dialogue on economic policy matters and
providing a vehicle for Bank, IMF and donor engagement to reward growing cooperation. An
evaluation of the component-specific benefits of the project is contained in the next section.

The project identified two major risks, (i) those associated with the country's process of ethnic
reconciliation and (ii) those arising from low administrative and institutional capacity within the
governments. The project contained elements that were politically sensitive in view of the
inter-ethnic differences of views on the division of the role of the state and the entities and, in the
case of the Federation, differences in views on the degree of integration of delivery of public
goods. Thus, questions such as the need to harmonise tax rates and systems across entities, to put
pensions on a fiscally sustainable footing, and, in the Federation, the unification of pension funds
and reform in intergovernmental financial relations were contentious.

The project sought to mitigate this risk by insisting on up-front actions and on encouraging the
consensus-building process through joint actions (e.g., common working groups). Donors were
also energised to provide the technical assistance required and the political pressure to support
reforms. It was noted that the success of PFSAC-I had required strong commitment and
cooperation by the different authorities, and this augured well for the successor project. The
second risk was largely addressed through a programme of carefully phased technical assistance
from the Bank, Fund and bilateral donors.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
1. Harmonisation of tax policies and coordinating tax collection.

2. Reform of intergovernmental finances within the entities.

3. Reform of the social safety net.



                                                 - 8 -

4. Modernisation of the budget management system.

5. Establishing auditing procedures and institutions.

6. Strengthening debt management capacity.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of entry of PFSAC-II is assessed as satisfactory as the project (i) addressed the key
priorities of the governments in public finance reform; (ii) was fully consistent with the CAS and
the updated Progress Report; (iii) incorporated attentively lessons learned from its predecessor
project, particularly on the careful sequencing of reforms, the support required to build consensus,
and the need for intensive Bank and other donor engagement in TA, supervision and coordination;
and (iv) was designed on the basis of extensive analytical work -- CEM, PER as well as on the
individual project components and of institutional capacities and needs --, and the project design
also reflected implementation constraints and risks and provided for appropriate flexibility of
response. Moreover, the project was prepared with the full participation of the Entity
governments and the governments displayed a high level of commitment.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is judged to be satisfactory in that key objectives were met and
the development impact is rated to be substantial. Despite the difficult political environment
during project implementation and the risks posed by the political sensitivity of the reform
components and weak institutional capacity, the components achieved their goals. Inter-entity
harmonisation of tax policies and systems was implemented as envisaged with the outcome of
higher revenue yields, greater efficiencies and reduced distortions. Intergovernmental financial
reforms have clarified the attribution of revenues and improvements in public service delivery
have taken place. Pension funds are financially sustainable and more efficiently administered.
Reforms in budget management and the establishment of the audit system have led to clear
results: gains in transparency and accountability, closer relationship between priorities of public
policy and budgets. Finally, the entities have adopted improved external debt management
systems resulting in more secure budget control and oversight, but the guidelines relating to
sub-entity borrowing are still to be implemented.

The achievements under the operation are likely to be sustainable for a number of reasons. First,
the project has been an instrument for deepening the inter-entity dialogue on public finance and
has created the policy and institutional conditions for a closer integration of the economy through
fiscal reforms. Second, far reaching improvements in tax administration, social service delivery,
budget management and accountability affect public welfare tangibly and enjoy popular support.
This makes reversion unlikely. Third, the authorities maintain their support for overall structural
reforms and a follow up adjustment credit in support of measures to ensure medium term fiscal
sustainability and achieve efficiency gains in public spending is envisaged (CAS, 2002).


                                                 - 9 -

Nevertheless, the experience of Bosnia and Herzegovina has shown that though changes in laws
and regulations and administrative systems are often difficult enough, the fundamental test of the
durability of reforms lies in implementation. Formal reform measures can often be obtained
through political pressures or financial incentives from donors, but real ownership can be elusive.
PFSAC-II has done a credible job in the ownership battle, and its three tranche structure provided
incentives for ownership and performance. Yet, the implementation of some key components or
elements of its components is at a nascent stage and strong political support will be required for
success. A formidable implementation challenge remains that will have to be addressed by new
governments that have just taken office.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Harmonization of tax policies and coordinating tax collection -- rated satisfactory. At
project initiation, the Entities had differing sales and excise tax rates and structures, differing
customs tariffs and trade practices, excise taxes differed as to origin of goods, tax collection was
poorly coordinated and excise taxes collected at the wholesale level were not passed on to the
destination of the consumer. There were, thus, powerful incentives for wasteful tax competition,
distortions were created within one country from varying tax rates and tax practices, revenue
attribution was not related to the point of final consumption, and tax avoidance or evasion was
facilitated. It was clear that sustained and efficient growth could not take place under such highly
distorted fiscal conditions.

Supported by the project, the authorities undertook to harmonize tax systems and rates, to
simplify and apply the state-mandated external tariff system, to abolish discriminatory trade
practices (including customs arrangements of the Federation with Croatia and of the RS with
Yugoslavia), to agree on allocation of tax revenues based on destination of goods, and to
strengthen cooperation between tax administrations so as to make the reformed system effective.
During project implementation, the district of Brcko was declared to be under international
supervision and its separate tax system had to be provided for within the project.

It is a major achievement of the project that this ambitious set of reforms was fully achieved.
These actions were politically sensitive as they lay at the heart of the the issue of the autonomy of
entities as prescribed in the Dayton accords and nationalist-oriented politicians were not eager to
cooperate with one another. Progress in achieving these reforms was fitful, slower than expected,
and required strong interventions from donors. Today, sales and excise tax rates are fully
harmonised, no differential excise tax rates exist, a common external tariff and trade regime is
applied, revenue attribution follows the destination principle and there is encouraging cooperation
between the customs, excise and tax authorities. These achievements have required not only
legislative changes, but the setting up of mechanisms for inter-entity allocation of sales and excise
tax revenues and coordination of tax administrative practices and information sharing. These
achievements were facilitated by an intensive provision of TA by the Bank (including through
donor financed programmes) and directly by donors.

The implementation of the inter-entity allocation mechanism is at a very early stage and will have
to be carefully monitored to ensure its effective functioning. The implementation of the allocation
mechanism for one important excisable product, tobacco, is proceeding satisfactorily. One


                                                  - 10 -

significant weakness of the harmonised tax system arises from the uneven implementation of its
provisions relating to the import of fuel products in the special district of Brcko that is under
international supervision. As this causes substantial losses in revenues for both entities,
addressing this lacuna is a matter of urgency. Further and continuous work will also be required
to improve inter-entity tax administration cooperation and information exchange with the
important purpose of fighting tax-related fraud.

Through its achievements on harmonisation and building up of tax administration capacity, the
project has created the conditions for the eventual introduction of VAT, notably through building
up skills in tax administrations and by the institution of tax rebate systems that are an essential
building block for a VAT system. Experience in other countries has shown that preparations for
the introduction of VAT have to be done with great care and typically require several years. The
tax administration capacity can be built on for this purpose. It will be important to avoid a rushed
introduction of VAT and to introduce it within an administrative structure that enjoys the full
confidence and support of the state and entity governments and the populace as a whole.
Otherwise, the risks of substantial revenue losses and a slippage from the achievements of the
PFSAC-II supported reforms will be too great.

The project was well designed to satisfy the outcomes under this component and clear
performance indicators were set out as tranche release conditions.

2. Reforming intergovernmental finances within the entities -- rated satisfactory. In the
Federation, efficiency in intergovernmental finances was hampered by an unbalanced allocation of
revenues across the cantons as sales taxes on excisable goods and profits taxes were assigned to
the point of collection and not related to destination of goods or the location of production.
Further, tax exemptions were awarded with little rationale, outside legislative authority, and local
revenue capacity was unduly restricted. Public service delivery with geographic spillovers needed
to be financed on a sustainable and equitable basis, particularly in health. In the RS, action needed
to be taken on tax exemptions and policies developed on improving efficiency in health care
finance and service delivery.

Significant progress has been recorded in all these areas of action. Both entities rationalised tax
exemptions and eliminated those outside the law. In the Federation, the government opted for
moving the attribution of sales taxes on excisable commodities as well as its collection to the retail
level. This also led to harmonised points of collection between the entities. However, the change
in point of collection to retail has led to significant revenue losses. Although the eventual
introduction of VAT will automatically solve the level of collection problem, consideration is
being given in the intervening period to moving the collection to the importer/manufacturing level
(as has been done for the tax on tobacco). Such a change, if undertaken, would have to be
followed by a mechanism to attribute the revenues to the local (canton) level.     Local revenue
capacity has been strengthened by abolishing duty free privileges (except at the airport for
outbound passengers) and by reducing ad hoc tax exemption awards.

In the Federation, cantonal health funds today channel contributions in a transparent manner and
offer equitable access for health services to all ethnic groups. However, the administrative



                                                   - 11 -

unification of the health funds in one mixed-ethnic canton (the Mostar canton) has only just taken
place (having been greatly delayed for political reasons) and judgement as to its proper
functioning must be awaited; financial unification had taken place a year earlier. The cantonal
system has been supplemented by the creation of a Federation Health Insurance Fund funded by
both the Federation budget and cantonal health insurance revenues to finance certain tertiary
expensive health services, thereby reducing wide variations across cantons in access to such
services. Data from the first quarter of 2003 show that KM8.4 million were placed in this fund as
transfers from the cantons. It would clearly be desirable to even out existing wide variations also
in primary and secondary services and consideration should be given in the future to widening the
remit of the insurance fund. A pre-condition for this further reform is a strong improvement in
compliance with the payment of contributions within certain poorly performing cantons -- an
objective of the proposed Social Insurance Technical Assistance Credit.

In the RS, rules have been put into place for strengthening control over the collection of health
contributions and policy steps taken to focus expenditures on priority services, such as primary
health care and the basic health package. Nevertheless, the degree of evasion and non-payment of
contributions remains serious. Greater budgetary support for health spending will be required.

3. Reform of the social safety net -- rated satisfactory. The pension systems of both the entities
provided for benefits inconsistent with demographics and with projection of revenues based on
the applied contribution rates. Moreover, the distribution of benefits needed to be tilted towards
the most destitute pensioners by a rise in minimum pensions. Finally, the distinct ethnically-based
pension funds in the Federation needed to be merged so as to create the conditions for a viable
unified pension system with equitable benefits. The veteran benefits programme in both entities,
likewise, was unbalanced as to entitlements and available resources and over-complicated in its
administration.

Legislative pension reforms in both entities, supported by the project, have resulted in financial
discipline by relating benefits to available resources and redefining benefit rules and indexation
formulae in accordance with projected revenues. Financial transparency and accountability in the
use of resources has been established. The divided pension funds in the Federation have been
unified. This has paved the way for strengthened financial viability of the system by simplifying
contribution collection and enhancing confidence in the fairness of the system. The unification
will result in greatly enhanced labour mobility in the Federation and will do much to promote
post-war ethnic reconciliation. However, the information systems that underlie the fund have not
so far been unified and action must be taken urgently to this end. The pension fund should also
agree on a settlement of its arrears to the cantonal health funds. Steps are being taken to devise
reform of the veteran benefits system, and this reform will be supported by the forthcoming
Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit.

The RS pension fund system is functioning smoothly with no recurrence of payment arrears that
were experienced in mid-2002, but the level of pensions (related so as to balance with the cash
contributions flowing into the fund) remains extremely low and enforcement action is required to
reduce the current high rates of non-payment of contributions.




                                                 - 12 -

More generally, in both entities, compliance with the paying of pension and health fund
contributions is less than satisfactory, legal action is not taken against non-compliers, and
procudures and systems, including IT, are inadequate to ensure coordination and information
exchange between the various ministries of finance, pensions and social funds and tax
administrations. The proposed Social Insurance Technical Assistance Credit is being designed to
address these shortcomings.

4. Reforming the budget management system -- rated satisfactory. The weaknesses identified in
the budget management system related to insufficient linkages between public policies and
priorities and the budget; lack of integration of the recurrent and capital budgets; and absence of a
medium term planning perspective. In addition, budget execution systems at entity and canton
levels were fragmented and weak in controls.

Both entities have taken great strides towards addressing these weaknesses in a impressive
performance. Strategic multi-year budgetting systems and processes have been introduced with
links between budget planning and macroeconomic and sectoral policies. In this context, the
preparation of medium term expenditure frameworks has been a critical step, and one that
facilitates the eventual preparation of poverty reduction strategy papers. But implementation is at
an early stage in both entities, and the effective translation of sector priorities and the making of
inter-sector choices in spending priorities into the budget still remains to be achieved. In the
entities, inter-ministerial working groups have developed expenditure policy and strategy
frameworks for a series of pilot sectors and a pilot exercise is underway in two cantons of the
Federation. This will be a highly important task for the near future.

Capital and recurrent budgets are integrated.      In the Federation, cantons have also carried out
similar reforms. The integration of budgets will be replicated by the authorities at the State level
as part of ongoing preparations for a full PRSP.

Significant progress has been made towards enhancing the coverage of capital expenditures in the
Entity budgets, including externally financed capital projects. This process has also led to notable
improvements in the external financing databases, which are administrated by aid coordination
units. More recently, the entities have also taken the decision to strengthen their role in the
management of external financing. Progress has also been made at the State level; however, the
fragmentation of donor coordination responsibility between two ministries of the State will
complicate management.

Finally, a major step towards improving budgetary control and transparency was achieved with
the establishment of a treasury system at the State and the Entity levels.

5. Establishing auditing procedures and institutions -- rated highly satisfactory. At project
initiation, Bosnia and Herzegovina lacked an audit capability. The challenge lay in designing an
external audit system that would permit the autonomous layers of government to undertake sound
audits, whilst ensuring consistency of standards and quality across all the layers. The reform
strategy entailed establishing a Supreme Audit Institution in the State and each entity to carry out
compliance audits (relating to legal and regulatory requirements), certification audits (financial)



                                                  - 13 -

and performance audits (value for money), with a National Coordinating Committee, comprising
State and entity auditor-generals, being responsible for ensuring consistency. Appropriate
safeguard provisions relating to the independence of the institutions was to be made.
Furthermore, the strategy called for the institutionalization of internal audits at all levels of the
government, with entity and canton ministries of finance playing a leading role.

This component has been fully implemented. Supreme Audit Institutions function at the State and
entity levels and have developed considerable capacity to undertake external audits. Compliance
and certification audits are being conducted, training of staff is under way for performance
auditing expected to be introduced in about two years. Progress has been made towards
establishing internal auditing, initially, certification audits, with compliance and performance to
follow, in the entities and in one of the cantons. A comprehensive technical assistance programme
is in place to support development of this work.

This progress is impressive but it needs to be supported by proper follow-up of the auditors'
reports by competent authorities in the State and the entities in terms of enacting reforms and
enforcing sanctions in the event of breaches of the law. Moreover, especially with both the
entities, independence appears to be tenuous and attempts have been made to apply political
pressure on auditors. Parliamentary organs would need to be vigilant to ensure that the audit
institutions are permitted to function with effectiveness.

6. Strengthening debt management capacity -- rated satisfactory. Within the debt management
institutions of the State and the entities -- which had been set up under PFSAC-I --, the need to
develop policy-making, credit analysis and monitoring functions, in particular the tracking and
control of borrowing by sub-entity levels of government, public enterprises, utilities and public
agencies, was addressed by this component of the project. Specifically, the strategy provided for
the adoption and implementation of guidelines for borrowing intended to ensuring accurate
reporting of debt, strong, transparent criteria for contraction, budgeting and supervision of loans
and guarantees, and procedures for coordination.

The guidelines and the associated coordination framework has been developed and adopted by
both entities to the benefit of debt management and policy coordination between the entity and
sub-entity levels. These guidelines are being translated into public borrowing legislation
(consistent with the existing state law). The entity governments need to ensure that sub-entity
borrowing is fully in compliance with the guidelines.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has made a high contribution in a number of spheres to institutional development in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and has greatly improved the ability of the country to make effective use
of its human and financial resources. This achievement has been facilitated by the large volume of



                                                   - 14 -

technical assistance put in place by the Bank, the Fund and bilateral donors.

In the tax area, the administrations of the entities have been strengthened, institutional
cooperation fostered, and systems improved. The budget planning and management system has
been developed virtually from scratch, single Treasury systems built and training provided to staff.
Furthermore, within the state and the entities, external debt management capacity has been
deepened with the adoption of modern methods. The pension reforms leading to sustainable
systems, the unification of the Federation funds, and the institution of the entity level Health
Insurance Fund in the Federation are powerful examples of institutional development in social
service delivery.

The establishment of Supreme Audit institutions at the State and entity levels, coordination
mechanisms, the introduction of internal audit practices and capabilities at the State, entity and
sub-entity levels, together with a large programme of training for staff, is expected to result in a
significant boost to the efficient use of human and financial resources within the governments. In
sum, the establishment of governance structures, together with appropriate tools for management,
in all components of the project reflects the subatantial institutional development impact of the
operation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The reform programme supported by the project was stretched out over a 3 1/2 year period,
which is an entirely reasonable period given the depth of the reforms, but which was, nonetheless,
a year beyond that envisaged under the operation. Progress in taking the policy and institutional
reform measures was hindered by frequent changes in governments (following elections) during
the life of the project. It was also handicapped by protracted decision-making by the various tiers
of the government; the project may have under-estimated this difficulty.

Inter-entity cooperation was often less than full-hearted, especially at the beginning; as a result,
the agreement on the mechanism for tax attribution and eventual revenue sharing was delayed.
Part of the delay can also be attributed to the need to make provision in mid-project
implementation for the special circumstances of Brcko district in project design once that district
was placed under international supervision. Also for reasons of inter-entity tensions, delays took
place on agreeing to common policies on and then implementing reforms related to budget
systems and external debt management. Ethnic tensions within the Federation led to slow
preparation for the plan for unification of the pension funds and then to the implementation of the
plan. For similar reasons, the operation of cantonal health funds in mixed-ethnic cantons as well
as the implementation of the Health Insurance Fund were delayed.

These difficulties were compounded by weak human and institutional capacities. Preparatory
work for much of the reforms took longer than envisaged and required intensive externally-
supported TA. There was a tendency on the part of the RS pension fund and the Sarajevo fund to



                                                     - 15 -

back-track on agreed rules for pension adjustments that dissipated the reform momentum.

The State and entity ministries of finance generally took a strong leadership role in project
implementation, often with very few dedicated and technically equipped staff. Project
performance improved as technical capacities were being gradually built up and as inter-entity
dialogue developed and cooperation improved. A major factor responsible for the successful
completion of the ambitious set of reforms was the dedication of the authorities, as represented by
entity prime ministers and ministers of finance, to their programme as outlined in the Policy
Statement of 1998; it was this commitment that overcame the difficulties outlined above.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable as government is the implementing agency.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The IDA financed cost of the project amounted to SDR53.2 million (US$72 million equivalent at
the time of Credit approval), of which SDR31 million was onlent to the Federation and SDR22.2
million to the RS. The Netherlands provided co-financing in the amount of US$27 million, of
which US$8 million was allocated to the State and US$9.5 million to each of the Entities; and
Switzerland provided cofinancing in the amount of US$3 million equivalent, divided equally
between the Entities. The substantial cofinancing of PFSAC-II amounting to over 40 per cent of
the IDA contribution is notable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the reforms supported by the project is judged to be likely. First, the policy
and the institutional measures taken under the project will greatly enhance the viability of public
finances, thereby creating the conditions for the furtherance of structural reforms on a broad front
to the benefit of prospects for self-sustained growth. All levels of the government -- State,
entities and sub-entity units -- benefit from the strengthening of policies and systems.

Second, the project has been an important vehicle for fostering inter-entity cooperation, and the
dialogue between the entities has deepened in the course of the project. This has made clear the
benefits to be obtained from cooperation and the creation of a single economic space, the
elimination of wasteful and distortive tax competition and restrictions on the movements of goods
and factors of production; and also the high costs that will be associated with any possible attempt
at reversion.

Third, the public is benefitting tangibly from sustained, regular pension payments, more assured
health care that is also more sustainably financed, greater accountability and transparency in all
levels of the government brought about through budget system reforms and the new audit
capabilities in an environment that was widely held to be highly corrupt. The greater assurance in
the availability of, and equity in, the allocation of public goods and the diminution of the
possibilities of malfeasence will help to maintain the public support for these reforms.

Fourth, the continuing commitment of the authorities to a continuation of the public finance
reform agenda is evidenced by their support for the recommendations of the recent Public


                                                    - 16 -

Expenditure and Insittutions Study and their interest in the proposed follow-up operation, the
Economic Management Adjustment Credit, focussing on reforms to ensure medium-term viability
in public finances (CAS Progress Report, 2002).

Finally, external political and economic support on reforming public finances and fighting
corruption, helping establish the standards that the country will be required to fulfil to qualify for
the stabilisation and association agreement with the EU and the demonstrated determination at
State and entity government levels to progress to an ever closer relationship to the EU, and the
continued conditioning of donor financial support to progress in structural reforms remain
powerful bulwarks of sustainability.

Nevertheless, the authorities will need to remain vigilant to a number of vulnerabilities that
sustainability faces. Sustainability will depend to an important degree on the steadfastness and
quality of implementation. This report has identified a number of areas where implementation is
still in its infancy, and tough political and technical challenges lie ahead. One source of
vulnerability is the proposed introduction of VAT, which is highly desirable in itself, but which
requires meticulous preparation, adequately paced timetable for introduction, and which should be
levied and administered in a form that enjoys the support of all the people of the country.
Otherwise, the risk of a substantial haemorrhage of revenues will be great. Another is the need
for the new governments to brief themselves fully as to the lessons from the reforms and to stick
closely to the implementation path. A third arises from the simultaneous challenge of pareing
down the public sector to create the room for private sector led growth, whilst raising the quality
of public spending. A fourth can be found is the inadequate levels of pension payments and the
basic health care package (especially in Republika Srpska), which are unlikely to be tolerated for
long by society.

Hence there is the need for continued TA to strengthen local capability and introduce new ideas.
The close engagement of the Bank, Fund and donors will remain vital. In turn, the state and
entity governments will have to deepen cooperation and accept greater accountability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performace is rated as satisfactory. The project identification was on target as it
addressed a central plank of the authorities' reform objectives and was fully consistent with the
thrust of the CAS. The Bank assisted the authorities closely in the design of the project and
careful attention was paid not only to the key policy and institutional changes, but also to the
necessary technical assistance required. The design covered the essential policy variables under
public finance reform. The team was large, staffed with the right mix of skills, experienced in
prior work on Balkan or post-conflict countries, and, indeed, many members had worked on
PFSAC-I. Substantial continuity of staff was maintained.

The design work had been supported by a recent CEM, recent PER, and by reform-specific


                                                  - 17 -

technical studies. Both preparation and appraisal were staff intensive with close involvement of
the state and entity level counterparts; some bilateral donors were also consulted. The appraisal
covered an assessment of the commitment of the authorities, evaluation of project implementation
capacities and need for additional technical support, and the design of the project, while clearly
ambitious, was kept parsimonious so as to maximise the prospects for implementation. There was
close rapport with the Fund team working on the parallel standby arrangement. The project, as
noted earlier, paid careful attention to the lessons learned from the PFSAC-I operation.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated as satisfactory. It was intense with missions from HQ taking place
every 3-4 months (at times in combination with ESW tasks) and with an economist in the resident
mission tracking developments closely. Supervision was greatly helped by the task manager being
unchanged throughout the project; indeed, she had also managed PFSAC-I. Supervision missions
highlighted developments (or lack thereof) clearly to the authorities, both at meetings and in
written aide-memoirs, covering the issues in detail. Missions worked closely as partners with
government representatives and with providers of TA; indeed, close coordination with donors to
ensure uniformity of advice and proper coverage of TA needs was an important aspect of
supervision. Supervision reports reveal the early and proactive detection of incipient problems,
creative approaches to possible solutions, and a high quality of advice given to the client.
Supervision reports were followed up by communications and missions from the country director
and resident representative. The contribution of supervision missions to the building of consensus
and the furthering of economic dialogue between the entities and between ethnic groups in the
Federation as well as its technical support was valued by the authorities and helped develop
project sustainability.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower preparation is rated satisfactory. All levels of the government were closely
involved in preparation through working groups and they provided ideas for design of project
components. The borrower governments took actions to satisfy Board presentation conditions,
some of which involved the preparation or passage of legislation. The borrower demonstrated
firm commitment to its reform programme and to its financial relationship with the Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation is rated satisfactory. The authorities stayed the course on
macroeconomic stability and remained in full compliance with Fund standby arrangements.
Implementation actions were generally taken as agreed or as sequenced, albeit often with
considerable delays. Clearly, frequent changes in government following elections hampered
implementation. Some of the implementation weaknesses arose from the unavoidable political
sensitivities associated with the project; others from inadequate technical capacity -- these factors
have been discussed earlier. Nevertheless, the delivery of such a far-reaching set of reforms
within a 3 1/2 year period is commendable. The implementation experience has led to the
realization of the gains to be reaped from cooperation, from fiscal modernisation, all of which has
set the stage well for follow-up operations. It remains vital that the encouraging start to


                                                 - 18 -

implementation is maintained in the months ahead as the new institutions (inter-entity transfer of
tax revenues, external debt management, broadening internal audits, developing the budget
framework, pension and health funds operating under disciplined rules) will doubtless face
challenges.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
See above

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

   * In a post-conflict environment of weak governance and still festering ethnic tensions, a firm
commitment by the top State and entity leaderships to the reform programme and associated
policy measures is vital to success. Moreover, the dedication of a core team of political and
technical leadership amidst elections and changing ministerial cabinets greatly assisted in keeping
reforms on track.

   * Inter-entity and ethnic cooperation requires a careful, often slow, process of consensus
building, realization of "win-win" solutions, and is facilitated by external mediation. Technical
working groups supported by Bank teams or other donor teams and external political or financial
incentives from the OHR and donors are critical to achieve agreement on reforms.

   *     A clear vision and a clear supporting strategy for public finance reforms was important to
success. The project followed logically from PFSAC-I, represented continuity, and is to be
followed by another adjustment credit. Careful linkages of reforms and their sequencing is
critical, especially when different actors that are required to coordinate (State, entities,
sub-entities) are involved.

   *     TA has to be planned and linked to project implementation from the project design stage
where local capacity is so weak.

   *     All this, in turn, requires careful spadework, reform blueprint, technical studies. Bank
work and TA was of importance. It requires deep institutional knowledge and experience of the
country or region and of post-conflict conditions. The skilled Bank team and the continuity of its
composition won credibility and led to success.

   * In the weak governance environment and with politically sensitive reforms, intensive
supervision is vital. Supervision has to be pro-active and fully engaged at the political and
working levels and directed at finding solutions. Resident mission played an important supporting
role.

   * Partnerships with the Fund and with bilateral donors has leveraged up the impact of all
parties, with each playing a lead role in a specialised field.

   * The passing of legislation and the setting of reform-supporting institutions, difficult though


                                                  - 19 -

they are, represent only the first step to final outcomes of higher growth and greater efficiency in
public finances. The quality and steadfastness of implementation are vital factors. The authorities
and all their donor partners, especially the Bank, will have to remain vigilant to the sources of
vulnerabilities in implementation and respond promptly to emerging problems.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In relation to the PFSAC II Implementation Completion, we consider the implementation
satisfactory, as the Credit was used by the BiH for the intended purposes.

        Although in the post-war period significant improvements have been achieved, especially
in the following areas:
         -     infrastructure reconstruction,
         -     strengthening of the domestic currency and, consequently, low inflation rate,
         -     removing inter-entity barriers for movement of goods, people and capital,
         -     beginning of the market reforms through trade liberalization and creation of single
               economic         space, and
         -     beginning of the enterprise and bank privatization, etc.,

        Bosnia and Herzegovina is still facing great difficulties, major ones being reflected through
high unemployment rate of 40%, poverty rate of 20% and still large numbers of refugees and
displaced persons.

        Under such circumstances, PFSAC II focused on the structural reform program in the area
of public finance, so the funds provided under the credit assisted Bosnia and Herzegovina to
strengthen public finances, this being a precondition for creation of the sustainable economy of a
country.

        The credit assisted in mobilization of public resources in all areas by improving, on one
hand, the coordination of financial and administrative links between the BiH's two entities, and,
on the other hand, those within each entity.

    The proceeds of the Credit have helped BiH to implement:

         -     reform and harmonization of the tax policies in the entities, as appropriate
               legislation has been      adopted in this area,
         -     reform of financing of and harmonization of health care in the entities,
         -     pension system reform (merger of PIO and MIO in the Federation of Bosnia and
               Herzegovina, appropriate legislation has been passed in RS, so pensions in both
               entities are being disbursed      within the available resource envelopes),
         -     reform of the Budget Management Systems at both the State and the entity levels,
         -     strengthening of the debt management capacity at both the State and the entity
               levels,
         -     reform of the budget execution system, and
         -     establishment of the appropriate audit institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to



                                                  - 20 -

                perform public finance audits.

    PFSAC II also served the purpose of fulfillment of BiH assistance program  CAS, through:

          -      strengthening of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's macroeconomic stability,
          -      strengthening of the public finances, and
          -      private sector development.

    Inter-entity cooperation in all the areas was crucial for implementation of all these reforms,
and the cooperation was significantly strengthened by and through the implementation of PFSAC
II.

    Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its efforts to stay on the path of establishment of the single
economic space and creation of the road to sustainable economic development. We were happy
to have had this credit to assist us in our endeavor.

    We hope that the new three-year CAS will assist Bosnia and Herzegovina with the additional
IDA loan funds, to speed up Bosnia and Herzegovina's transition process, as we are aware that
we are still at the beginning of this process.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                  Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Promoting free flow of goods between the          Entity governments have taken legislative and Satisfactory implementation of the measures
Entities and improving tax revenue collection administrative steps to these ends.                 continues.
by incorporating all Entity specific tariffs into
the State Customs Law and eliminating all
implicit tariffs imposed by the Entitis as well
as special trade agreements.

Promoting free flow of goods between the          Legislative and administrative actions have     The implementation of the harmonised tax
Entities and improving tax revenue collection been taken in all these areas, but actual           structures continues satisfactorily, and that of
by both harmonizing the sales and excise tax implementation of inter-entity allocation of         the allocation of inter-entity taxes has begun.
structures and developing a revenue               sales and excise taxes is still to be effected.
distribution system between the Entities.

Improving revenue and expenditure                 These actions have been fully taken.            The implementation of the actions continues
assignments within the Entities by improving                                                      to be satisfactory.
the allocation of sales tax revenues to the
local governments, and financing and
delivery of services with geographic
spillovers, particularly in health.

Designing an equitable and sustainable            These actions have been taken with two          The merged Federation system has begun to
pension system by aligning pension benefit        gaps, (i) the merged Federation system was      operate satisfactorily. RS took measures to
levels with the realities of future revenues;     to begin functioning and (ii) RS pension        restorre sustainability to its pension system.
adjusting the pension benefit formula for         contribution rules were not satisfactory as
provision of a reasonable minimum benefit;        they raised insufficient amounts to finance
and integrating Federation pension systems. pension obligations.

Developing efficient and transparent budget       Appropriate measures have been taken and        Policies and measures continue to be in
planning system by linking budget                 institutions are in place, but time will be     place, but there is a need to build up
preparation with government's                     needed to effectively internalise the links     experience with budget formulation and
macroeconomic and sectoral policies;              between policies, priorities and budget         management. Entities need to ensure that
integrating capital and recurrent budgets; and allocations. Moreover, the implementation of guidelines on sub-entity public borrowing are
strengthening institutional capacity.             guidelines on sub-entity public borrowing was fully enforced.
                                                  awaited.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
                  Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
TAX POLICIES AND COLLECTION

 Entities to implement the State-set external     Achieved.                                       Continued satistactory implementation.
tariffs, to eliminate special trade agreements
with Croatia and Yugoslavia, to equalize the
excise tax rates on domestic and imported
goods.

 Entities to complete the harmonization of        Achieved                                        Continued satisfactory implementation.
sales tax system by reducing differences in
sales tax rates.

 Entities to implement strengthened               Achieved                                        Continued satisfactory implementation
arrangements for administrative
co-ordination, including an information
sharing system;

 Entities to implement new legislation on         To be achieved                                  Implementation initiated.
inter-Entity allocation of sales and excise
taxes.


REFORMING INTER-




                                                                      - 22 -

GOVERNMENTAL FINANCES

Federation:

 Eliminate tax relief and exemptions with a      Achieved                                    Continued satisfactory implementation
specific expiration date, including those
granted to duty-free shops, unless provided
for under tax legislation or by international
treaties.

 Adopt changes to the tax legislation to         Achieved                                    Continued satisfactory implementation
improve collection and allocation of sales
taxes on excisable goods between cantons
and implement.

 Establish cantonal health insurance funds;      Achieved                                    Continued satisfactory implementation
establish Federation Health Insurance Fund
under secure and clear financing and service
responsibilities.

RS:

 Eliminate all tax and duty exemptions          Achieved                                     Continued satisfactory implementation
without a specified expiration date and that
are not provided for under tax legislation or by
international treaties; adopt measures to
effectively control duty-free shops and ensure
that transactions at such establishments are
limited to authorized persons.

 Develop and adopt guidelines to improve
administrative efficiency in health service       Achieved                                    Continued satisfactory implementation
delivery and collection of health contributions.


SOCIAL SAFETY NET

 Entities to adopt and implement                Achieved in the Federation, slippage in the  Federation - satisfactory implementation;
amendments to pension legislation on benefit RS to unsustainable financial position          RS has corrected the slippage and
formula and eligibility criteria to ensure                                                   implementation is now satisfactory
sustainability of pension financing.

 Federation to adopt and implement merger        Merger achieved.                            Continued satisfactory implementation
of the two pension funds alongside with the
changes to the benefit formula and eligibility
criteria.

 Entities to submit to the Bank a                Achieved                                    Achieved
comprehensive analysis of beneficiaries for
their veteran's programs.


BUDGET MANAGEMENT SYSTEM

 Entities to establish macroeconomic             Achieved                                    Maintained
analysis and forecasting units in their
respective MoFs; to prepare budget
framework papers to a time-horizon of three
years.

 Entities to incorporate capital projects in the Achieved                                    Continued satisfactory implementation
year 2000 budget plans including those
which are externally funded.

 Entities to adopt a strategy and timetable      Achieved                                    Maintained
for integrating their external aid management
function

 Entities and State to operate with Single       Achieved                                    Continued satisfactory implementation
Treasury Account and to manage budget



                                                                 - 23 -

execution through Treasury Ledger
Accounts.


AUDITING PROCEDURES AND
INSTITUTIONS

 State and Entities to adopt the legislative  Achieved                 Maintained
framework and budgets for their Supreme
Audit Institutions.

 State and the Entity Parliaments to appoint  Achieved                 Maintained
Auditor-Generals for their SAIs and to
operationalize their SAIs.

DEBT MANAGEMENT CAPACITY

 State and Entities to implement the          Partly achieved          Achieved, but entities need to ensure that
Guidelines to govern public sector borrowing,                           guidelines for sub-entity borrowing are fully
including at the Sub-Entity level, consisting                           enforced.
of: (i) a comprehensive debt reporting
system; (ii) transparent selection, budgeting,
and supervision procedures for loans and
guarantees; and (iii) procedures for
borrowing policy co-ordination.

1End of project




                                                              - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million
IDA                                                       72.00         72.00            100
Co-financing

Dutch Grant                                               23.00         23.00            100
Swiss Grant                                                3.00           3.00           100

Total Baseline Cost                                       98.00         98.00
                        Total Project Costs               98.00         98.00
                  Total Financing Required                98.00         98.00




                                                - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              November 1998             7    1 economist, 3 tax policy
                                             specialists, 3 budget specialists
              December 1998             1    1 budget specialist
              January 1999            15     1 economist, 4 budget
                                             management specialists, 3 audit
                                             specialists, 2 debt management
                                             specialists, 3 tax policy
                                             specialists, 2 pension reform
                                             specialists

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April 1999              11     1 economist, 2 tax policy                S               S
                                             specialists, 1 health
                                             specialist, 1 pension reform
                                             specialist, 2 budget
                                             management specialists, 1
                                             treasury system specialist, 1
                                             debt management specialist,
                                             1 audit specialist, 1 veterans
                                             benefit sch.
              May 1999                  2    1 economist, 1 legal specialist          S               S

 Supervision

              September 1999           12    1 team leader, 1budget                   S               S
                                             management specialists, 1
                                             treasury systems specialist, 1
                                             budget management (fed)
                                             specialist, 1 budget management
                                             (rs) specialist, 1 budget/macro
                                             framework specialist, 1 debt
                                             management specialist, 1debt
                                             mng.-legal framework specialist,
                                             1tax policy specialist, 1
                                             intergovernmental finance
                                             specialist, 1 pension finance
                                             specialist, 1 veterans' benefit sch.
              October 2000              7    1 team leader, 1 treasury                S               S
                                             specialist, 1 pension specialist, 1
                                             public finance special, 1 health
                                             sector specialist, 1 program
                                             assistant
              May 2001                  6    1 task team leader, 1 treasury           S               S
                                             system specialist, 1 debt
                                             management specialist, 1 tax
                                             policy specialist, 1 health finance



                                              - 27 -

                                            specialist, 1budget consolidation
                                            specialist
               May 2001                5    1 task team leader - overall          U    S
                                            supervision, 1 health finace
                                            reforms specialist, 1 penison
                                            reform specialist, 1 treasury
                                            specialist, 1 tax policy specialist

 ICR
                                      2     1 team leader, 1                      S    S
                                            macroeconomist, 1 research
                                            analyst



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            25.3                              117.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 11.1                                  47
  Supervision                          96.27                              313.9
  ICR                                     8.0                               40.0
  Total                                  140                                 520




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Strengthening pension and health systems
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Initiating Concept Memorandum, January 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Memorandum for Regional Operations Committee Review Meeting,
March 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Appraisal Mission Back to Office Report, May 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Negotiations Package, May 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Board Package (President's Report, Legal Documents), June 1999

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Project Status Report. (Report ...),

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Supervision: Back to Office Report (BTO), August 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Supervision: Tax Policy BTO, October 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Supervision: Pension Reforms BTO, October 1999.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Supervision: BTO, February 2000.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Supervision: BTO, September - October 2000.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Supervision: BTO, May - June 2001.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - PFSAC II - Third Tranche Release Memo, IDA/

Bosnia and Herzegovina - Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper ...

Bosnia and Herzegovina - Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 24978, October 2002.

Bosnia and Herzegovina - From Aid Dependency to Fiscal Self-Reliance: a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review, Report No. 24297, October 2002.




                                                 - 31 -

- 32 -

