Page  1
January 10, 2000
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
  Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re: 
Dutch Grant for  the cofinancing of Second Public 
Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
Grant Number TF023282                                         
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands, 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding nineteen million United States dollars 
(US$19,000,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Elaine W. Patterson
Acting Resident Representative
for Bosnia and Herzegovina
Europe and Central Asia Region 
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Mirsad Kurtovic
Authorized Representative
Date:  January 24, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to cofinance the Second Public Finance Structural 
Adjustment Credit (the Project) to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) 
consolidate the public finance reforms began under the First Public 
Finance Structural Adjustment Credit;
(b) 
promote the free flow of goods between the entities and improve tax 
revenue collection by completing harmonization of major tax structures;
(c) 
develop a more robust intergovernmental system, by improving efficiency 
Page  2
and coverage of public sector services; and
(d) 
develop a comprehensive budgetary strategy and a regulatory framework for 
auditing aimed at improving transparency, fiscal efficiency and accountability in 
public sector operations.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall cause the Federation and Republika Srpska to: (a) carry out 
the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, 
the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on 
the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
For purposes of ensuring that the Grant is implemented and that the funds are 
transferred according to the terms and conditions of the Grant, the Recipient shall 
enter into a subsidiary grant agreement with the Federation and a subsidiary grant 
agreement with Republika Srpska on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2.3.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 2000.
3.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
3.1.
The Recipient shall, prior to furnishing to IDA the first request for withdrawal 
from the Grant Account, open and thereafter maintain in its central bank a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. All withdrawals from 
the Grant Account shall be deposited by IDA into the Deposit Account.
3.2.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 3.1., 3.3. and 3.4. of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to the use of proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the 
Grant Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Activities.
3.3.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Attachment to this 
Annex. If IDA shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Grant shall 
have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to 
the amount of said payment, or (ii) if IDA shall so request, refund such amount to 
IDA. Amounts refunded to IDA upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account 
for cancellation.
3.4.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities and 
shall be allocated as follows:
   Amount of the Grant
   Allocated
Item
(in United States Dollars)
(1)
Federation
  12,500,000
(2)
Republika Srpska
   6,500,000
TOTAL
  19,000,000
3.5.
Upon IDA’s request, the Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA;
(b)
furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the date of IDA’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(c )
furnish to IDA such other information concerning the Deposit Account and 
Page  3
the audit thereof as IDA shall have reasonably requested.
Attachment
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of paragraph 3.3. of the Annex, the proceeds of the Credit shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services 
are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall not be 
excluded;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanu-
factured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
Page  4
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party;
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
