Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFITCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8304
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT
(LOAN 1758-KO)
DECEMBER 29, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
GRCO      -    Gwangju Regional Construction Office
GRDU      -    Gwangju Regional Development Unit
GRP       -    Gross Regional Product
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IRCO      -    Ir Regional Construction Office
MOC       -    Ministry of Construction
NFFC      -    National Federation of Fisheries
Cooperatives
PCR            Project Completion Report
Py        -    Pyong (equivalent to 3.307 sq. m)
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
044K.e d OIfEE.IfI
Oprtaom twaWtuin
December 29, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Korea - Second
Gwaniu Regional ProJect (Loan, 1758- KO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Korea - Second Gwanju Regional Project (Loan 1758-KO)o
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorztion.



KORE
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KOU
gROECT COMPLETION UREORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .     .............................................         i
BASIC DATA SHEET  .........       ...........................      ii
HIGHLIGHTS   ...........      ..............................        v
I. INTRODUCTION
A. The Gwangju Region  ..................                    1
B. Project Background .....................                  1
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Project Preparation  .................                    2
B. Project Appraisal  ......        ...................      3
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives  ......        ..................      5
B. Project Description  ......        .................      5
C. Project Processing  ......        ..................      6
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Start-up  ..................                      6
B. Revisions in the Project  ..................              a
C. Physical Progress   .               .10
D. Project Cost and Financing  ..............    ..         11
E. Disbursements .........    .....................         11
F. Procurement      ...............................         12
G. Performance of Consultants, Contractors
and Suppliers      .............................        12
H. Compliance with Loan Covenants          ............     13
I. Reporting and Audits  ......................             13
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Performance of the Implementing Agency  ....             13
B. Performance of the Bank  .....       ..............      14
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Strengthenning the Economic Base  ..........             14
B. Economic Re-evaluation  .....        ...............     15
VII. LESSONS LEARNED  ........       ......................      18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duti.s. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Appraisal and Actual Implementation Schedule  ....                     .........   21
2.   Comparison of Appraisal and Actul  Project Costs                       .........    22
3.   Financing Plan  ............... ........................ ....     23
4.   Disbursement of Loan by Category  ......                 ...................    24
5.   Estimated and Actual Accumulated Disbursements  .                     ..........    25
6.  Suiuary of Contracts  ...                 ..................................    26
7.   Covenants in Loan Agreement  .......                .......................    27
8.   Economic Re-Evaluation            .................... ...............    31
9.   Gwanju City Finances  .....................................    38
10.   Comments from the Borrower  .......                ........................    41



- i -
KXOREA
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KO1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Gwangju
Regional Project (Loan 1758-KO) for which a loan of US$65 million was ,-proved
by the Board on September 11, 1979. Under Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the
proceeds of the loan were on-lent to City Governments of Gwangju, Mogpo, and
Yeosu, the Government of Goheung County and the National Federation of
Fisheries Cooperatives. The on-lent funds carried the same term and grace
period as the Bank loan but at an interest rate which was 0.05% per annum
higher than the Bank loan rate. The loan closed on June 30, 1985, and the
final disbursement was made in December 1985. Due to cost savings under the
project resulting from a substantial devaluation of the won, US$12.78 million
of the loan funds were cancelled at the Government's request in October 1984
and another US$1.02 million were cancelled in December 1985.
The PCR was prepared by staff of the Infrastructure Operations
Division, Country Department II, Asia Regional Office, based on documents
contained in the project file. Comments were received from the Ministry of
Construction, the agency primarily responsible for project implementation.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached to
the Report as Annex 10.



- ii -
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
CDURTRY
NWlE OF PROJECT
(LOAN/CREDIT NO.}
BSIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal            Actuat or              Actual as X of
Item                                   Exoectation        Current Estimate         AoraisaL Estimate
Total Project Costs (USS million)                154.8                 148.7                       96.1X
Loan Amomnt (USS million)                         65.0                  51.2                       78.8X
Cofinancing-Total (USS million)
ADAB s
CIDA                                                                                                                    =
KfW 
NORAD 
MA
SIDA
Date Physical Coamponents Canpleted            12/31/83               12/31/85
Proportion completed by that date (X)            1002                   1002
Economic Rote of Return                             23X                   122
Institutional Performance                  Satisfactory           Satisfactory
CUULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
F80   FY81               83     Y fY84    FY85   FY86
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)                1.50    16.50   41.30   63.20   56.00
Actual (USS million)                            0.00    4.06    11.81   24.69   46.85   50.77   51.20
Actual as X of Appraisal (2)
Date of Final Disbursement: December 30 1°85
PROJECT DATES
Original                                        Actual as X of
Plan          Revisions      Actut            Oriainal Ptan
First Nention in Files                           4/72                           10/g;
Negotiations                                                                   6/25 29/79
Board Approval                                                                 9/11/79
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)                                                9/27/79
Effectiveness                                                                  2/15/80
Closing Date                                   6/30/84                         6/30/85
* Use PROGRAM in the case of SAL audits.



- ii 
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY77   FY78   FY79  FY80   FY81   FY82  F3y§    FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87  FYa8   FY89
TOTAL
Identification/
Preparation           0.3  39.6   64.0
103.9
Appraisal                           131.1
131.1
Negotiations                         17.2 24.1
41.3
Supervision                                27.3  32.4  23.7  20.4  12.4   5.2    0.2   12.2
133.8
Subtotal               0.3  39.6  212.3  51.4  32.4  23.7  20.4  12.4   5.2    0.2   12.2
410.1
fMlSSIOM DATA
Date         No. of     Specializations           Performance                 Types of
(mo./yr.)      Persons      Represented                Ratina          Tren    Problem
Identffication            12/76            2      EC EG
Preparation                3/78            4      2 EG FS US
Preappraisal               7/78            7      2 EG FS 2US TS FA
Appraisal                  10/78           9      2EG 2FS US 2FA A S                             -
Post-Apprafsat             2/79            5      2 EG 2FS A                     -
Supervision    I          10/79            4      EG FA A EC                     1               1         F
Supervision   II           5/80            6      EG FA A 3EC                    1               1         F T
Supervision  III           8/80            5      3EG FA FC                      2               1         F T
Supervision   IV           4/81            3      EG 2EC                         2               2         F
Supervision    V           9/81            2      EG EC                          2               2         F
Supervision  VI            1/82            2      EG EC                          2               2         F
Supervision VII            5/82            2      EG EC                          2               1         F
Supervision VIII          11/82            3      EG EC FA                       1               2         F
Supervision   IX          10/83            2      EG EC                          1               2         F T
Supervision    X           7/84            1      EC                             1               2         F
Sunoervision  XI          11/84            1      EC                             1               2
Supervision  XII           4/85            2      EC EG                          1               2
Completion                11/86            3      EC FA RA                       -
EC a Economist, EG = Engineer, FS = Fishery Specialist, US u Urban Specialist
TS a Transport Specialist, FA a Financial Analyst, A = Architect, S a Secretary
RA a Research Asststent



- iv -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                                    Goverrnent of Korea
Executing Agency:                            Ministry of Construction
Foltlo-On Pr.uects:
Name                                       Jeonju Regional Project
Credit Number                              LW 2388-KO
Amnomt (US$ million)                       60.0
Approval Date                              13 March 84



- v
KOREA
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
1.          The Second Gwangju Rerional Project (Ln. 1758-KO), like its
predecessor, the Secondary Cities Regional Project (Loan 1070-K0), was
designed to support the Government's strategy for reducing regional imbalances
in the country's economic development through industrial decentralization,
development of secondary cities and increased primary sector productivity in
the Gwangju Region, one of the poorest, least developed regions of the
country. Specifically, the project aimed at. (a) promoting industrialization
in the region's cities in order to expand employment opportunities; (b)
improving living conditions in the urban areas; and (c) increasing the income-
earning opportunities of the region's island population through improved
transport linkages and fisheries activities.
2.          The project as appraised included the provision of:  (a) housing
estae ,- in the major regional cities of Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu totalling
nearly 3,950 serviced residential plots, some with expandable core houses; (b)
about 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo; (c)
improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and the Narodo Islands;
(d) construction of two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo Islands to the
mainland, improvements to 1.9 km of commercial road in Yeosu and ferry service
between Narodo Island and the mainland; (e) an aquaculture development program
to enhance fishermen's incomes and a shrimp storage facility at Imja Island;
and (f) technical assistance (para. 3.2)   A Bank loan for US$65 million was
approved by the Board in September 1979 to assist in financing the project's
total estimated cost of W 75.1 billion (US$154.8 million).
3.          The project was initiated at a time when the Korean economy had
begun to deteriorate after the oil price increases of 1979. Higher than
expected inflation led to project cost increases while the tight budgetary
situation, of both the central government and the project cities, resulted in
delays which could not be made up during the subsequent implementation period
(paras. 4.2 and 4.3). The project was therefore completed two years later
than expected, in December 1985 rather than December 1983 as originally
planned, and loan closing had to be extended by one year, from June 30, 1984
to June 30, 1985. Actual project costs totalled W 104.8 billion (US$141.1
million). While the project experienced costs overruns in won terms, costs
were less than expected in US dollar terms due to the devaluation of the won.
As a result, savings of US$13.8 million of the loan amount were cancelled.
4.          The project underwent several changes during implementation, the
major changes being as follows: (a) the design of the Dolsan Bridge was
changed from a steel box girder suspension bridge to a itore expensive cable
stay suspension bridge; (b) a separate water supply system was added to the



- vi -
Gwangju industrial estate due to delays in expanding the Gwangju City system;
(c) the Hogpo industrial estate and related works, cancelled due to
projections of higher than expected costs and sluggish demand, were replaced
with other high priority investments, i.e., land readjustment scheme and a
drainage improvement, also for Mogpo; and (d) the aquaculture development
component for the production of laver, an ecible seaweed, was reduced due to
overproduction and a consequent lack of farmer enthusiasm for further
investment (para. 4.5).
5.          The project succeeded in accomplishing its objective of providing
industrial employment opportunities through the construction of the Gwangju
industrial estate which has been fully sold out and is expected to employ
about 10,000 workers (para. 6.2). The water supply components have improved
living conditions in the area while housing provided under the project has
increased the housing supply in the project cities. Project investments to
establish a road link between the mainland and Jindo Island, noted for its
coastline and beaches, should enhance the Island's tourism potential,
particularly in view of the rise in domestic tourism expected as a result of
increasing incomes (para. 6.5). Cable stay bridge technology was transferred
to Korean contractors through the construction of the Jindo and Dolsan Bridges
(4.14). The project did not, however, contribute to development of
aquaculture in the region due to the major cut-back in the aquaculture
component. Overall, the major project components, accounting for 77% of total
projects costs, have weighted average economic return of 12%, rather lower
than the 23% return estimated at appraisal due to cost increases resulting
from the longer than expected implementation period (paras. 6.6 and 6.7).
6.          While the project is estimated to have accounted for less than 10%
of total government resources invested in the Gwangju Region during the
project period, it did play a major role in financing investments in the
project cities, which are constrained by their limited revenue base and lack
of access to ex:ternal financing (para. 7.3). Implementation of the project
was largely hampered by two factors: first, some project components were
identified somewhat late in the project preparation process and may not have
been sufficiently prepared; and second, the need to provide counterpart funds
for all project components simUltaneously strained the local government
budgets. In the future, regional development project should also consider
formulating an institutional framework for identifying and implementing
projects which could include:
(a)   a regionalized allocation of central government resources, with
regional breakdowns of annual budgets; and
(b)   mechanisms by which local governments (whether provincial, city or
county) could themselves implement the regional projects. This
might require development of a financing scheme, e.g., a Regional
Development Fund, and, where the local governments lack the
technical capabilities for project implementation, the appointment
of a central government agency such as the Ministry of
Construction to carry out works on behalf of the local government
or the establishment of a separate agency, e.g., a Regional



- vii -
Development Corpovation, to assist the local governments where
necessary.
The development of such an institutional framework would be a medium term
objective to be achieved through a series of regional development projects,
starting off with selected investments carried out in the target region
through a central government agency along the lines of the regional
development projects in Korea.



KOREA
SECOND GWANCJU REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. The Gwanaiu Region
1.1         The Gwangju Region,  consisting primar.ly of Jeonra Nam
Province,l_/ is one of the poorer regions in Korea.   Located in the
southwestern part of the country, the province has traditionally been
an agricultural center, and did not benefit from the rapid industrial
development of the late 1960s and 1970s which was concentrated around
Seoul, in the northwest, and Pusan and Taegu, in the southeast.
Agriculture and fisheries continue to be the main economic activities
of the province, and in 1978, when t's Second Gwangju Regional Project
was being prepared, per capita Gross Regional Product (GRP) in Jeonra
Nam Province was about 80% of the national average and 60% of the GRP
of Seoul.
1.2      In 1980, the province had a population of 3.8 million or 10%
of Korea's total population. Its urban population of 1.2 million was
spread out in four cities:   Gwangju (population 727,600, the fifth
largest city in Korea), Mogpo (population 221,814), Yeosu (population
160,988) and Suncheon (population 114,241). The urbanization rate in
the province in 1980 was 32% compared to 57% for Korea as a whole.
Between 1975 and 1980, the province's urban population rose from 1.0
million to 1.2 million, while the total population dropped from 4.0
million to 3.8 million owing to a general movement of the population
from the poorer provinces to Seoul.
B. Proiect Background
1.3      The Government of Korea has been concerned about the regional
distribution of economic growth in the country since the 1960s.  To
address the perceived imbalance in development, in 1971 the Ministry
of Construction (MOC) issued the First Comprehensive National Land
Development Plan (1972-81) which provided a blue print for future
infrastructure investment in the country. The Plan divided the nation
into eight regions and outlined the broad investment priorities for
each region. Detailed investment plans were prepared for three of the
regions with   the help of foreign assistance:  the United Nations
1J The report uses the McCune-Reischauer System for spelling Korean
place names to be consistent with the appraisal report.   Under the
alternative Ministry of Education System which is now more widely used
by the Government, "Jeonra Nam Province" would be spelt "Cholla Nam
Province" and "Gwangju Region" spelt "Kwar,gju Region."



S                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
Development Programme (UNDP) provided financing for the Gwangju and
Taebag plans while the Jeonju plan was funded by a grant from the
Canadian Government. The Gwangju Regional Study, undertaken by Robert
R. Nathan Associates during 1974-75,   provided the basis for this
project as well as its predecessor, the Korea Secondary Cities
Regional Project (Loan 1070-KO), approved In 1975.   The Secondary
Cities Project financed housing sites and services in Gwangju, Mogpo
and Yeosu Cities, a fishery harbor complex in Yeosu City, a market in
Suncheon City, roads in Mogpo and Yeosu Cities, and technical
assistance. Utilizing savings under the loan due to a significant
devaluation of the won  in  1974,  funding  for  several  additional
components, including a water supply system for Yeosu City and several
studies,  was also provided under the project.  In line with  the
project's institutional objectives, a Gwangju Regional Development
Unit (GRDU) was established under the Ministry of Construction (MOC)
to implement the project. The GRDU was subsequently incorporated into
the MOC's Gwangju Regional Construction Office (GRCO).2_/   The
Secondary Cities Project was completed in 1980 at a total cost of W 15
billion (US$25 million), somewhat higher than the estimated cost of
W 10 billion at appraisal due to the additional costs of components
added during implementation. A Project Performance Audit Report for
the Secondary Cities Project (No. 5609) found that the project had had
mixed results and that its impact was somewhat less than expected at
appraisal. However, the audit found that institutional arrangements
under the project were quite successful and deserved to be replicated
in other regions of Korea, but cautioned that the projec'- should not
be emulated as a model for planning and designing regional development
programs. According to the PPAR, rather than constituting a cohesive
set of investment that together would foster regional development, the
project evolved into a collection of subprojects tied together by the
fact that the same element was being repeated in differenct cities,
and by the physical proximity of some of the components.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Project Preparation
2.1      In November 1976, after the Secondary Cities Regional Project
had begun, MOC suggested some additional components for Bank financing
in the Gwangju Region, based on the findings of the Robert Nathan
Study. The proposed investments addressed the needs of both the urb-%n
areas, through industrial development and infrastructure investments
in the four major cities, and the rural areas, through agricultural
storage and fishery  development.    Feasibility  studies  for  these
investments were funded under the Secondary Cities Project and carried
out by consultants who were already providing technical assistance to
2J The office was first named the Jeonra Nam Regional Construction
Office (JNRCO) , then subsequently renamed the GRCO.   The GRCO was
abolished and its operations integrated with MOC's Iri Regional
Construction Office (IRCO) in Jeonra Bug Province during the
government reorganization of 1981.



GRDU under the Secondary Cities Project.  The feasibility studies were
started in September 1977 and completed in June 1978. A Bank                          =
evaluation of the studies found them unsatisfactory since engineering                  '
design work had been carried out without adequately establishing the                   :
need for and appropriate scale of each component through an analysis
of demand and alternative design solutions.  As a result, the Bank had
to provide additiona;A resources during project preparation and
appraisal to compensate for the shortcomings of the feasibility
studies.
2.2          During project preparation,  changes were made in the
composition of components.  First, housing components were identified                  U
in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu in response to the acute housing shortage
in the region and the favorable experience with housing estates under
the Secondary Cities Project.   Second, additional water supply
components were identified fur Gwangju and Yeosu.   But due to the
priority of these investments, they were for the most part initiated
immediately, with funding under the First Water Supply Project (Ln.
2072-KO) for the investments in Gwe.ngju and under the first regional
project for water source development, transmission and treatment
facilities in Yeosu.   The Yeosu distribution system was, however,
financed under the Second Regional Project. Third, the fishery
development component was determined not to be economically feasible
and was therefore replaced by an aquaculture developmetn component and
by components for development of Narodo, a pair of islands off the
mainland with good potentional for tourism and fisheries. This
reflected the Government's keen interest in assisting the less
developed coastal and island areas in the region. The preparation of
these additional components was carried out by GRDU with the
assistance of local consultants and Bank staff.
B. Proiect Anpraisal
2.3        The project was appraised in October/November 1978.  The
main issues raised with the Government at appraisal were the
following:
(a) Inclusion of Narginal Components: The Government was eager
to include components to develop the poorer island and
coastal areas of the province primarily for political
reasons.   However, most of the components identified for
this target group were found to be economically and
financially not feasible.   The Bank mission proposed
redesigning some components (i.e., ferry terminals instead
of bridges for Narodo), identified new components (the
aquaculture component to replace several fisheries-related
components) and included technical assistance for an Island
Development Study to address the needs of the coastal areas;
and
(b)   Design Standards For Housing Estates:   The Bank's primary
objective in the housing sector was to construct affordable
housing for the urban poor without government subsidies so
that the program could be replicated on a larger scale



nationwide.   In order to make the units affordable to the
low income group, the Bank proposed expandable core houses
one of 9 pyong (py) 3J, about 30 sq m, and another of 12
py, about 40 sq m. The Government felt that these were too
small and preferred to construct apartments with a larger
unit size even if government subsidies were required to make
them affordable to the target group.
Other issues raised by the mission were: (a) the financial strain of
the project on the city budgets (especially Yeosu); (b) full cost
recovery for the industrial estate; (c) the financial status of the
Mogpo Water Bureau; and (d) the need for an urban plan for Dolsan
Island.
2.4      The main issues raised during the Bank review of the project
following appraisal were as follows:
(a) Status of Proiect Prenaration: The Yeosu and Narodo water
supply components and the acquaculture component were either
redesigned or identified late in the project (during
preappraisal/appraisal) and were considered not fully
prepared; and
(b) Coordination Between Different Operations Within the Bank:
Timely provision of water to the Gwangju industrial and
housing estates depended upon the timing of the Bank's
Secondary Cities Water Supply Project which wa.s being
prepared simultaneously, while an Agricultural Marketing
Project was being prepared for implementation by the
National Federation of Fishery Cooperatives (NFFC), also the
implementing agency for the aquaculture component. Concern
was expressed over the NFFC's financial situation and it was
feared that implementation of a separate Bank project might
undermine efforts to improve NFFC's financial performance.
2.5        The Bank agreed to a post-appraisal mission (in February
1979) to finalize the aquaculture component with the participation of
staff preparing the Agricultural Marketing Project. Although the
mission was not completely satisfied with NFFC and did recognize it
may complicate later efforts under the Marketing Project, it was
decided to proceed with the acquaculture component because of its
importance to the project and its small size relative to NFFC's total
operations. The Bank also included a covenant in the Loan Agreement
requiring timely provision of water for the industrial and housing
estates.
3j The pyong (py), a Korsan unit of measuring area, is equal to
3.307 sq m.



- 5 -
III. TEHE PR0JMC
A. Project Obiectives
3.1        In order to promote development in the Gwangju Region, the
project aimed at: (a) promoting industrialization in the region's
cities to expand employment opportunities; (b) improving living
conditions in the urban areas; and (c) increasing the income-earning
opportunities of the region's island population through improved
transport linkages and fisheries activities.
B. Proiect DescriRtion
3.2         The project, as appraised, consisted of the following
components:
(a)   Housing (US$44.6 millior.):   Provision of nearly 3,950
serviced residential plots in the cities of Gwangju, Mogpo
and Yeosu, with expandable core-houses designed mostly for
low-income families.
(b)   Industrial Estates (US$64.7 million):   Provision of about
200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo to
accomodate 16,000 to 20,000 employees.
(c)   Water SuRply  (US$13.4 million):    Improvements  to water
supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and Narodo including
transmission, treatment, and distribution and operations.
(d)   Transportation (US$19.5 million):   Construction of two
bridges to link the islands of Dolsan and Jindo to the
mainland and improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in
Yeosu and ferry service between Narodo and the mainland.
(e)  Fisheries (US$7.0 million):  Provision of a shrimp storage
facility and an aquaculture development program aimed at
enhancing fishermen's incomes.
(f)   Technical Assistance  (US$5.6 million):   Provision of
assistance for regional planning, including an island
development study as well as aquaculture development, water
supply system operation and management, and preparation of a
third regional project.
3.3       With the exception of the aquaculture development program
which was implemented by NFFC, project design and construction were
carried out by HOC. Overall project coordination was carried out
through MOC's Regional Planning Division in Seoul, while review of
detailed designs, procurement and construction supervision were
carried out by MOC's regional offices (GRCO and then IRCO). Gwangju,
Mokpo and Yeosu Cities were responsible for land acquisition,
financing and operation and maintenance (upon completion) of the
housing, industrial estate, water supply, and Yeosu commercial road
components.



-6 -
3.4      The total project cost was estimated at W 7..l billion (US$
154.8 million). A Bank loan of US$65 million was provided to cover
the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the project (42% of
total project costs), with the balance of financing to be provided by
the cities (27%), central government budget funds (13%), the Korea
Housing Bank (13%), the Korea Development Bank (3%) and the National
Federation of Fishery Cooperatives (2%). About US$46 million of the
Bank loan was on-lent to Gwangju City, Mogpo City, Yeosu City, Goheung
County Government and NFCC.  Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
between the Ministry of Finance and the local governments and NFFC was
a condition of loan effectiveness.
C. Project Processin8
3.5      The loan was negotiated in June 1979, approved by the Bank's
Board on September 11, 1979, signed on September 27, 1979 and became
effective on February 15, 1980.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Start-up
4.1      The economic situation in Korea deteriorated just as project
implementation was ueginning.   The Korean economy, which had been
averaging real GNP growth of over 10% per annum during the 1970s,
entered into a recession in the second half of 1979 as a result of
increased oil prices and the resulting slowdown of economic growth
worldwide. The annual growth rates of nominal and real GNP for 1976
to 1985 are presented in Chart 1. Real GNP growth dropped from 9.7%
per annum in 1978, to 6.6% in 1979 and to -6.6% in 1980.  Both local
and central government revenues, which had been growing at over 10%
per annum in real terms during the 1970s, experienced negative growth
in 1980. Wholesale prices, which had been increasing at around 10%
per annum, showed an annual increase of 19% in 1979, 39% in 1980 and
20% in 1981. On the other hand, land p- .ces which had been increasing
in real terms during the 1970s began to stabilize, reducing the
attractiveness of land as an investment. Land price increases in the
medium-sized cities in Korea averaged well over 20% per annum in the
late 1970s, peaking at 59% per annum or over 45% in real terms in
1978. However, Government intervention and economic recession reduced
the growth in land prices which fell to an annual increase of only 15%
(or about -4% in real terms) in medium-sized cities in 1979 to 14%
(about -35% in real terms) in 1980 and to 9% (about -12% in real
terms) in 1981.   The annual growth rates of land prices, the GNP
deflator and wholesale prices are compared in Chart 2.
4.2       The worsening economic situation had a negative effect on
project start-up.  The drop in central government revenues and high
inflation led to a tightenning of central government expenditures.
Detailed engineering for the housing and industrial estates components
was temporarily suspended in 1979/80 when the Economic Planning Board
dropped this activity from the 1980 government budget on the grounds
that it should be funded by the local governments. Central government



a    i                  ss|{i  I
-                         ..4/z -
Ss t%z/M     -       o             o      >>>>SS\S\ii\\       - 
o    -            ~~            ~~o   -J  rXX\\ 
|: M                 ~     ~     ~~~~~o                       " UP  
z                                   C)~~~~NNC\
S                0                                                    -J.-z
w   _              g              .°'1 
I...$



- 8 -
funding was eventually restored and detailed engineering was completed
in mid-1980. Budget difficulties also resulted in longer construction
periods for the Jindo and Dolsan bridges.
4.3           Funding constraints  also resulted  in delays  in  land
acquisition by the project cities for the housing estate, industrial
estate, and Yeosu commercial road components.   Local governments in
Korea generally funded a greater part of land development projects,
such as housing and industrial estates, through pre-sale-. During the
1970s when land prices were increasing rapidly in real terms, people
were willing to put down deposits for residential and industrial land
yet to be developed.  However, the land market cooled significantly
after 1980 so that the project cities had difficulty mobilizing
funding for  land  acquisition  through  pre-sales.    The  issue was
resolved when the Ministry of Home Affairs, which oversees local
government financing, gave approval in April 1981 to the project
cities to borrow from commercial banks after turning down the cities'
requests for grant assistance. As a result, construction in the three
housing estates and the Gwangju industrial estate did not start in
earnest until the third quarter of 1981 alth.-;- the contracts were
awarded and construction officially started in December 1980 and
January 1981, respectively.   The project cities continued to have
difficulties with counterpart funding which resulted in the Bank's
increasing the loan disbursement ratio on several components and
agreeing to direct payments to suppliers (see para. 4.5).
4.4       The Mogpo industrial estate and access road components were
re-evaluated in light of the changed economic outlook and significant
increase in development costs which doubled from 4 8.6 billion at
appraisal to W 15.8 billion after detailed engineering due to higher
land acquisition and land fill costs. A study by the Korea Research
Institute for Human Settlements in November 1981 determined that the
industrial estate was no longer feasible. The industrial estate and
access road components were therefore dropped from the project and
replaced with other high priority investments in Mogpo City (para.
4.5).
B. Revisions in the Proiect
4.5        During implementation, several revisions were made to the
design of project components, project scope and disbursement
arrangements. The major changes were as follows:
Design Changes:
(a)  Dolsan Bridge:   Due to the foundation conditions of the
bridge and marine traffic in the bridge area, the
consultants responsible for detailed design of the bridge
recommended a more expensive cable stay suspension bridge
instead of the steel box girder suspension bridge originally
proposed.
(b) Separate Water SuRnlv for Gwangiu Industrial Estate: Delays
in the expansion of Gwangju City's water system made it



- 9 -
necessary to develop a separate source of water supply for
the industrial estate in order to market the estate upon
completion.  Therefore, the industrial estate civil works
contract was extended to include some 26 km of transmission
line and treatment facilities to provide 30,000 MT/day of
water to the industrial estate at a cost of W 5.7 billion.
The Loan Agreement was amended to accommodate the above
change.
(c)  Minor Modifications:   Other changes to the project design
included: (i) a 20% reduction in the number of completed
housing units (the area being sold as open lots targetted to
the low-income group) in the Gwangju and Yeosu housing
estates in order to reduce the cost of housing construction
in view of the shortage of local funds; (ii) inclusion of a
small earth dam, 3.2 km of raw water transmission and a
booster station in the Narodo water supply component since
utilization of groundwater was not feasible; (iii)
modication of the Im'. shrimp storage facilities, at the
NFFC's request, to ut;.lze the existing jetty and improve
its truck access rather than constructing a new jetty with a
rail link; and (iv) addition of drainage works in the Mogpo
housing estate.
Prosect Scope:
(a)  Cancellation of the MogRo Industrial Estate and Access Road:
These components were dropped due to higher costs an
projected sluggish demand for industrial land in Mogpo
(para. 4.4) and were replaced with other high priority
investments:  (i) the Juksan Land Readjustment Scheme, and
extension of the Mogpo housing estate in line with the
project's overall objective to provide affordable low-income
housing; and (ii) the Mogpo drainage improvement scneme
inivolving upgrading of two major drainage channels to reduce
flood damage during heavy rainfall. The Loan Agreement was
amended in 1982 to accommodate the above changes.
(b)  Apuaculture:   This component was intended to expand laver
(edible seaweed) production to meet domestic demand and
increase the incomes of laver farmers, one of the poorest
groups in the rural population.   However,  production of
laver exceeded government projections and the resulting
oversupply dampened the farmers'  enthusiasm  for  further
investments in facilities.   The Government restricted
increases in new floating net units (which were intended to
replace the outdated and less productive bamboo slat growing
units), making loans for net units impossible.   Therefore,
NFFC requested and the Bank agreed to reduce the program to
one year, eliminate the floating net units altogether, and
limit the facilities to only those for which subborrowers
had already been selected.   The program as completed
consisted of three seed culture facilities, 13 processing
facilities and one net freezing facility.



- 10 -
Changes in Disbursement:
(a)  Disbursement Ratios.   In order to reduce  the financial
burden on the cities and facilitate project implementation,
the Bank increased disbursement ratios on the following
components: (a) the Gwangju industrial estate (including the
water supply component) from 44% to 55% (Bank letter of
November 30, 1982); (b) the Yeosu commercial road from 44%
to 80% (Bank letter of November 30, 1982); and (c) Mogpo
City inner drainage from 44% to 74% (Bank letter of
September 15, 1983). Even at the higher disbursement ratios,
the Bank loan still exceeded the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of the project. The disbursement ratio was also
increased for consultant's services from 60% of total
expenditures to 100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of
local expenditures (March 30. 1981) and overseas training
from 100% of foreign expenditures to 100% of total
expenditures in order to facilitate the processing of these
expenditures (February 14, 1983).
(b) Disbursement Procedures.   Due to budgetary shortages, the
cities were having difficulties in mobilizing funds to make
payments to contractors prior to seeking Bank reimbursement.
In order to ease the cities' cash flow requirement and
accelerate disbursements, the Bank agreed to pay the
contractors directly (Procedure III: Application for Direct
Payment) on condition that the cities give assurances that
the local counterpart funds would be forthcoming in a timely
manner (letter of November 22, 1983).
C. Phvsical Progress
4.6         Actual implementation of the project was completed in
November 1985, about two years behind the original completion date of
December 1983. A comparison of the planned and actual implementation
schedules is given in Annex 1. The closing date of the project was
extended by one year to June 30, 1985. 4_J
4.7        The slower than expected physical progress resulted from
delays during the start-up period (paras. 4.2 and 4.3) which could not
be made up during the latter part of implementation. Construction of
the project bridges, for example, was constrained by government
budgetary problems which caused the demobilization of the contractor
for the Jindo Bridge in September 1981, well before the end of the
construction season. The Government was also initially reluctant to
field a full construction supervisory team for the Dolsan Bridge
(proposing to use part-time inputs from the Jindo supervisory team) as
4J Although the Mogpo Drainage component was not completed at the
time of loan closing, no extension of the closing date was sought
since the contract was on-going and all disbursements were expected to
be completed by December 1985, or within 6 months of the revised
closing date.



- 11 v
a cost-cutting measure. This arrangement was unsatisfactory and the
matter was resolved only after the Bank had suspended disbursements on
the Dolsan Bridge in August 1982. Land acquisition problems resulted
in further delays of the Gwangju housing estate, due to the holdout of
one owner, and the Juksan land re-adjustment component due to lack of
funds.
D. Proiect Cost and Financing
4.8      Total project costs were significantly higher than estimated
at appraisal in won terms but were slightly below the estimate in
terms of US dollars. The total project cost at appraisal was V 75.1
billion (US$154.8 million equivalent)  including taxes,  duties  n.td
contingencies. Actual costs totaled W 104.8 billion (US$141.1 million
equivalent), an increase of 40% in won terms but a decrease of 9% in
US dollar terms. A detailed comparison of actual and estimated costs
is shown in Annex 2. The higher won costs were due to a combination
of higher inflation than estimated, longer implementation periods, and
some design changes (para. 4.5). The greatest price increases were
related to the two bridges. At the time of appraisal, inflation in
Korea was projected at 10% in 1979, 9% in 1980 and 8% thereafter. In
reality, wholesale prices rose by 19% in 1979, 39% in 1980, 20% in
1981, then dropped to 5% in 1982, and remained below 1% p.a.
thereafter. The savings in US dollar terms was due to a devaluation of
the Korean won following the Government's decision to move from a
fixed exchange rate to the dollar to a floating rate system.  As a
result, the won depreciated from W 484 to the dollar in 1979 to W 660
by end-1980 and eventually to W 870 by 1985, the last year of
implementation.
4.9       The cost overruns aggravated the already difficult local
funding situation, both in the central and local governments (paras.
4.2 and 4.3).   Financing for the project was provided by the Bank
(37%), the Central Government (24%), local governments (22%), the
Korea Housing Bank (14%), the Korea Development Bank (2%) and the
National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives and the Shinan County
Cooperative  (1%).   Annex 3 provides a detailed breakdown of the
financing plan.
E. Disbursements
4.10      The loan was disbursed over six years, or one and a half
years longer than the appraisal estimate of 4 1/2 years.   However,
actual performance still compares favorably with the disbursement
profile for Korea which shows disbursements averaging six years.
Disbursement of the loan did not begin until two years after loan
effectiveness.   Bank guidelines at the time when this project was
prepared did not require that detailed engineering be completed prior
to Board presentation.   Therefore, delays in detailed engineering
(para. 4.2) led to delays in project start-up, which was further
delayed by land acquisition problems (para. 4.3). Disbursements from
the various categories of the loan are shown in Annex 4. A comparison
of cumulative loan disbursements with the appraisal estimate is shown
in Annex 5.



-12 -
4.11       Even with the increased contract costs in won terms, the
devaluation of the won resulted in savings in the loan amount in US
dollar terms.  As a result, a total of US$13.8 million (21%) of the
original loan amount was cancelled, US$12.78 million on October 9,
1984 at the request of Government and US$1.02 at the time of loan
closing on December 18, 1985. MOC fully utilized its loan allocation
due to cost overruns on the bridges. Savings under the loan occurred
in the local government components.
F. Procurement
4.12      Procurement under the project was satisfactory.  The bulk of
procurement for civil works was carried out by GRCO, which had
experience  with  Bank  procurement  procedures   due   to   its
responsibilities as the primary implementing agency for the Secondary
Cities Project (Ln. 1070-KO). The project was advertised in August
1979 in accordance with ICB procedures for prequalification.  As in
many other projects in Korea, only local contractors appl!ed to be
prequalified, many of theui regional contractors.   Fifty three were
prequalified for the project and six were qualified for the cable stay
bridges. Because of the complex construction techniques involved in
bridge construction and the limited experience of local contractors
with such techniques, the six contractors were asked to enter into
joint venture arrangements with foreign contractors who had experience
in construction of cable stay bridges.   Project contracts are
summarized in Annex 6.
4.13       NFFC requested changes in procurement of laver processing
equipment from ICB to prudent shopping since these machines were
produced by only 11 firms in Japan and Korea.  In order to expedite
implementation, the Bank agreed to internatioual prudent shopping,
allowing direct contact with all 11 manufacturers (in lieu of
advertising), a 45-day tender period and simultaneous provision of
tender documents to the suppliers and the Bank.
G. Performance of Consultants. Contractors and Suppliers
4.14          The consultants,  contractors and suppliers performed
satisfactorily. However, the foreign consultant firm supervising the
cable stay bridge had some difficulty in its relationship with GRCO
due to characteristics of the business culture in Korea. For example,
the consultant and GRCO differed in their perception of safety
considerations in bridge construction. The consultant felt that the
Korean contractors were cutting corners and jeapordizing quality to
reduce costs and meet the implementation schedule, while the Koreans
considered the consultants to be excessively cautious, to the point of
being obstructive. Despite these difficulties, the consultant played
a very important role in providing quality control. Since these were
the first major cable stay bridges built in Korea, the foreign
consultants were critical in transferring cable stay bridge technology
to the MOC and the local contractors.



- 13 -
H. Gmnpliance with Loan Covenants
4.15        There were no major problems with compliance with loan
covenants.  Annex 7 summarizes the major covenants contained in the
loan agreement and the status of compliance.
I. Reporting and Audits
4.16        Submission of progress reports was satisfactory.   Twenty
bimonthly progress  reports prepaced by  the  local  consultants
supervising all construction except for the bridges were submitted as
planned between October 1980 and ')ecember 1983.   Fifteen bimonthly
progress reports prepared by the consultants supervising bridge
construction were submitted to the Bank from July 1982 to November
1984. These reports were also used by GRCO and MOC for monitoring the
progress of the prcoject.   GRCO provided audited project accounts,
prepared by external private auditors, for fiscal years 1980 to 1985
in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Performance of the Implementing Agency
5.1         The performance of implementing agencies was generally
satisfactory. GRCO, the main implementing agency, performed extremely
well.   Despite some problems with delays  in land acquisition
experienced during the start-up period, GRCO, the cities and the
provincial government have worked closely together both during project
preparation and implementation.   As a result, there have been no
"turn-over" problems, such as refusal by local governments to accept
the completed project or disputes over design standards, which
typically occur when a national government agency constructs a project
on behalf of local governments and turns it over to the local
government for operation and maintenance upon completion.
5.2       Implementation of the aquaculture component was coordinated
by NFFC's International Banking Department which was not responsible
for actually carrying out the component.   The component was only a
very small part of NFFC's overall operations.   The status of the
aquaculture program within NFFC's regular operation:; and its
relationship with the Government's aquaculture program beirg promoted
by the Office of Fisheries were not clear. As a result, the component
never got off the ground and eventually was cut back significantly
during implementation (para. 4.5).
5.3       Ironically, the difficulty in implementing the aquaculture
program and resulting cut-back may have reduced the damage which
resulted from overinvestment by farmers in laver processing equipment.
The return from investing in laver processing equipment was initially
considered to be so lucrative that many farmers and cooperatives
purchased equipment with loans from local banks.   This led to
overproduction of higher quality laver, a drop in prices and losses to
many investors.   As of November 1986, all but one of the 17 sub-



14 -
borrowers under the aquaculture program were in arrears in serviclng
their loan obligations to NFFC.
B. PerfornMce of the Bank
5.4          The Bank's partlcipation in the project allowed the
Government to complete the regional planning and development process
thiat started with the UNDP-funded reglonal development studies in the
early 1970s (para. 2.1). The Bank provided financing for a multi-year
comprehensive regional project involving both national and local
government agencies.   Furthermore, the Bank's intervention assisted
the Government to rationalize the project,  select the  least-cost
option and drop some doubtful projects (para. 2.3). The Bank pla)ed a
role in transferring cable stay bridge technology througbh the inputs
of consultants during supervision missions.
.
5.5           Within  the Bank,  the project  also brought  out  the
difficulties of dealing with projects which cut across traditional                 -
sectoral  lines.   While  the acquaculture  component  addressed  the              _
economic needs of the poorer island areas of the region -- a major
priority for both the/Bank and the Government under the project, the
Bank may have acted too hastily i:t developing the component for
inclusion in the project, especially considering that laver production             _
is carried out only in Korea and Japan, the Bank has no expertise in
this activity and many questions had been raised on the institutional
capacity of NFFC.  On the other hand, the need to have all components
(some of which had been under preparation for some time while others
like the aquaculture component had been only identified late in the
project cycle) appraised simultaneously, forced the Bank appraisal
team to decide to include the component prematurely.
5.6       All components of the project were supervised by the Urban
and Water Supply Division of the East Asia and Pacific Projects
Department.  During the  implementation period,  a  total  of  12                  1
supervision missions visited Korea, with an average of about seven                 -
staff-weeks per year spent on supervision in the field.   The Bank
supervision missions supported MOC's efforts to obtain appropriate                 U
budget resources,  and as a result of this intervention (not only
limited to this project), the Government began adopting multi-year
rolling budgets for Bank-asslsted projects which facilitated planning              I
over the life of the project.  The quality of the working relationship
between the Bank and MOC, NFFC and the local governments was                       0
excellent.   The Bank also responded to the Government's request to
provide an outside expert on bridge construction and cortributed
significantly  to  technology  transfer  in  cable  stay  bridge
construction.
VI. PROJECI JUSTIFICATION
A. Strengthening the Economic Base
6.1      Since the project was only completed in 1985, it is still too
early to assess its overall development impact on the Gwangju Reglon



- 15 -
as a whole. However, the project can be said to have had a positive
effect in strengthening the economic base of the region through
industrial development in Gwangju and potential tourism development in
the coastal areas.
6.2          The Gwangju industrial estate is expected to have a
significant effect on promoting industrial development in the region.
At full utilization, the estate will contain a total of 110 factories,
w4th electronics and chemicals accounting for 30% and 20% of the
factories, respectively. Total employment in the estate is expected
to be between 9,000 to 10,000. As of end-1986, 51 factories were in
operation, employing a total of 4,288 persons.   For comparison, the
total number of people employed in manufacturing in the Gwangju Region
in 1982 (the latest year for which data are available) was 63,349.
6.3       The majority of factories (about 75% of the total) are being
established by local firms, with 29% relocating from an existing
industrial estate. Of the factor.tes being established by non-regional
firms, 22 (20%) are from Seoul.   Two major electrical companies,
Daewoo and Goldstar, together pArchased about 32% of the industrial
estate area after representatives of Gwangju City and the local
chamber of commerce actively promoted the estate in Seoul, Pusan and
other major industrial areas. At W 50,000 per py, the sales price was
competitive compared to Seoul and Pusan where industrial land prices
were over W 100,000 per py.   Gwangju City also provided a pool of
cheaper labor and a market for manufactured goods.
6.4       The industrial estate is considered a success, and Gwangju
City is planning to develop an additional 340,000 py adjacent to the
estate, with assistance from the Korea Land Development Corporation.
6.5        The project also encouraged tourism in the Gwangju area.
With the rise in per capita incomes, domestic tourism is expected to
increase throughout Korea. The coastal areas of Jeonra Nam Province
retain a natural beauty which should be attractive to local tourists.
In view of the country's well developed highway system, the proximity
of Jeonra Nam Province to Pusan and other cities in the southeast
(only about several hours drive by expressway), and the increase in
privately-owned motor vehicles in Korea, an increasing number of
tourists can be expected to travel by car to the region.  The Jindo
and Dolsan bridges constructed under the project should facilitate
this tourism by providing direct links between the mainland and Jindo
and Dolsan Islands.   The bridges, the first cable stay bridges in
Korea, could well become tourist attractions in their own right.
B. Economic Re-evaluation
6.6        An economic re-evaluation was carried out to assess the
project's expected outcome. Given time and data constraints, it was
not possible to re-evaluate all project components; therefore,
economic rates of return (ERRs) were estimated for the project's key
components -- those for transportation, housing estates and the
industrial estate. Together, these components account for about 77%
of total project costs.   The methodology used in the re-evaluation



- 16 -
follows that used at the tlme of appraisal.    A  summary of the
calculations is shown in Annex 8.
6.7       The weighted average ERR of the key project components is
12%. This is lower than the weighted average of 23% estimated for the
entire project at appraisal, largely due to higher-than-expected costs
of the bridges and road constructed under the project and slower-than-
expected sales (and thus benefits) of thie housing developed.
Nevertheless, this rate of return is considered sufficient since the
project was in large part motivated by equity concerns and was
implemented in a relatively less developed part of the country.
6.8       TransUortation.  ERRs were estimated for the Jindo bridge,
the Dolsan bridge and the Yeosu commercial road. All three components
experienced significant cost increases over appraisal estimates due to
higher land costs in the case of the Yeosu commercial road and higher
construction costs in the case of the two cable stay bridges.   The
Bank was aware of the cost increases for the bridges when tenders were
received and re-estimated the respective ERRs which, though lower than
at appraisal, were considered acceptable.   Savings in vehicle
operating costs and passenger time costs were taken as the project
benefits for all three components.   Table 1 shows the cost increase
involved in each component and compares the re-evaluated ERRs with
those estimated at appraisal and at the time of contract award for the
bridges.
TABLE 1: Estimated and Actual Returns for the Project
Transport Components
(%)
ERR
Cost
Increase aJ Appraisal Revised b_J PCR
Jindo Bridge                 93          16       14            18
Dolsan Bridge              477           29       12            12
Yeosu Commercial Rd         180          29        -            14
aJ Increase in actual cost compared to appraisal costs including
price and physical contingencies.
bJ Obtained from Memorandum to Files dated January 27, 1981.
6.9       Industrial Estate.  Construction of the Gwangju industrial
estate and associated water works was completed at end-1983.   Sales
performance of the industrial estate has been good, and was completed
by mid-1986. Almost half the estate (170,000 py or 47%) was sold by
end-1983 (i.e., before the estate was completed) and over 80% (305,359



- 17 -
py) by end-1984. The initial sales price was U 50,000 per py which
was gradually increased to W 70,000 per py by 1986.   Sales of the
standard factories began in 1983 and were completed by 1985. Factory
prices started at W 200,000 in 1983 and were increased to W 264,000 by
1986.   The average sales price of the industrial land was about
W 55,800 per py compared to an average development cost of W 54,900.
As a matter of policy, the sales price of the land was set to' recover
only the development costs since the industrial estate was built to
promote manufacturing dovelopment rather than to make profits.
6.10       As at appraisal, the projected revenues from the sales of
land and factories, property taxes and water charges were used to
estimate economic benefits. Property values were assumed to increase
at 3% per annum in real terms, given the expected growth of Gwangju
City. On this basis, the ERR for the industrial estate is 9%.
6.11       Housing Estate.  Housing estateri developed under the first
regional project (i.e., the Secondary Cities Regional Project) went on
sale during the late 1970s when .Korea was experiencing a rapid
increase in land prices and were sold out almost immediately.  Based
on this experience, the cities included in the Second Regional Project                -
anticipated a short sales period and expected to finance their share
of project costs through pre-sales.   The marketing plan for the
housing estates was discussed with the Bank in January 1982.
6.12      However, actual sales of the housing estates did not proceed
as rapidly as the cities had expected, which exacerbated their already
tight budgetary situation arising from the economic recession (para.
4.3). Several factors made potential buyers wary of commiting funds
for sites yet to be developed as they had done in the past.  First and
foremost, the stabilization of land prices in the early 1980s and the
general economic recession dampened demand for housing.   Second, the
proposed sites were located some distance from the center of the city
and, in the case of the Gwangju and Mogpo, the sites lacked access to
public transport.  Third, the Gwangju houtsing estate was expected to
accommodate workers from the Gwangju industrial estate, which was
still under constructiun when the housing estate was completed.
6.13       Actual sales took five years for the Gwangju and Mogpo
housing estates and six years for the Yeosu housing estate.   The
average sales prices for the different types of lot are shown in Table
2 below.



-18-
IOUIL 2: Average Sales Price Per Lot by Type and
Housing Estate
(W million)
Gwangju    Mogpo     Yeosu
27 py Corehouse             6.5        7.1       7.8
30 py Corehouse             8.3        9.0       9.4
General Lots                7.3       12.9      11.1
Commercial Lots            17.9       19.9      37.2
Source: Letter from Y. C. Koh dated June 10, 1987.
As at appraisal, the re-evaluated ERR was estimated using sales values
of the general, commercial and public lots and imputed rental values
for the 9 py and 12 py corehouses as the project benefits. Property
values were assumed to grow at 3% per annum in real terms in line with
the overall development of the cities. On this basis, the ERRs were
re-estimated as follows: Gwangju housing estate, 11%; Mogpo housing
estate, 7%; and Yeosu housing estate, 16%.
VII. LESSONS LEARNED
7.'           Experience gained under  the  Second Gwangju Regional
Development Project provided the Bank with additional   guidance in
designing future regional projects. The project was, of course, only
part of a more extensive government effort to channel resources to the
region, and its impact on the region should be considered in that
context.   Since data on the regional distribution of government
budgets is not readily available in Korea, total public investment in
the region has been roughly estimated by using the total value of
civil engineering work contracted in Jeonra Nam Province as a proxy
for overall public investment.   Considering only civil engineering
contracts for forestry conservation, flood control, dams, irrigation,
water supply and sewerage, roads and bridges, and land development --
all typical government activities -- but excluding construction of
housing and factories,   between 1980 and 1985,  civil engineering
contracts in Jeonra Nam Province totaled W 1,232.7 billion.   With
total civil works carried out under the project (excluding
aquaculture) costing W 84.7 billion,  the project represented only
about 7% of all civil engineering contracts in Jeonra Nam Province
during the project period.    The project's  impact was  therefore
somewhat circumscribed relative to the total regional development
effort.   In order to promote development in a specific region, the
Government needs to consider the total amount of central government
funds being invested in that region.  In view of this need, future
regional development projects should probably encourage the Government
to prepare a regional breakdown of the development budgets, which



- 19 -
would highlight the total amount of central government resources being
provided to different parts of the country and allow for better
coordination among the various ministries and agencies.
7.2      However, this does not necessarily mean that there is no role
for separate regio.nal development projects. Regional disparitie: are
primarily political and social problems. Less developed regions are
generally at a comparative disadvantage from an economic point of
view. Jeonra Nam Province was not able to diversify out of agriculture
into manufacturing because it was located farthest away from Seoul and
Busan, the country's two main economic centers. Regional development
projects are useful in that, by being a separate activity solely for
that region, they can be easily identified as an effort to do
something "special" to help a certain area of the country.
7.3       While the project may not have been large relative to the
overall investment in the region, it did have a significant impact on
the investment programs of the project cities. The project provided
the cities with an additional source of funds to tap for their
development projects. Table 3 compares project costs with estimated
capital formation (for both General and Special Accounts) in the three
project cities for 1980 to 1985. The overall finances of the project
cities are summarized in Annex 9. The project is estimated to have
accounted for between 23% of city investments in Gwangju to 41% of
investments in Yeosu between 1980 and 1985.  It can also be observed
that the project's share is greater in the smaller cities with
relatively smaller overall investment levels.
TABLE 3: Comparison of Project Investment Costs to
Estimated Capital Formation for 1980 to 1985
(in W billion)
Gwangju    Nogpo    Yeosu
Project Investments (A)          30.0     22.3     11.4
Capital Formation  (B)          131.9     56.4     27.4
Share of A to B                   23%      39%      41%
Source: Annex 9.
7.4       Finally, the project indicated some of the drawbacks of
taking a top down, "convoy" approach where all project components are
expected to be prepared, appraised and implemented simultaneously.
Some components became higher priority, were prepared earlier than the
rest and required separate sources of funding, e.g., the water source
development, transmission and treatment facilities which were financed
with savings from the first regional project (para. 2.2).    Other



-20 -
priority components, such as the acquaculture component, were
ldentified when preparation of the other components was well advanced
and were included without sufficient preparation.   In the future,
multl-component regional projects should be designed to allow maximum
flexibility to react to changing local priorities.
7.5       In sum, future regional development projects should place
more emphasis on developing an institutlonal framework for identifying
and implementing development projects in the region. In addition to
central government investments which will contlnue to be an important
part of the project, the project might also aim at developing
mechanisms to:
(a) regionalize central government resource allocations by
preparing regional breakdowns of annual budgets (para. 7.1);
and
(b) implement local government (provincial, city, county)
projects. This might necessitate development of a financing
scheme, e.g., a Regional Development Fund, to provide the
local governments with the capability to implement their own
projects.   If the technical capability of the local
government is weak, the project may require a central
government agency, such as the Ministry of Construction, to
carry out the work on behalf of the local government or may
even require the establishment of a separate agency, e.g., a
Regional Development Corporation.
It is therefore suggested that regional development projects take a
program approach and aim at establishing the rules for project funding
rather than the "convoy" approach of preparing, evaluating and
implementing all the components simultaneously.



koREA
SECWOII GUHU RESIMIJL PROJECT (LO 1758940)
PROJECT CIUIILEIJOII REPORT
Appraisa and kctual lplefitatien Schedale
1979                1980      a          19I       a          1992      a          1993      a          199114               19951
--- - -                  - -  ---- - ---I --- - - ---------------                          ----                   -----             
t    2  3  4  1   2  3  4i   i2  3 4i                                 2  3  4   1  2  3  4  1   2  3  4 :  1   2 3  4
-- - --- - - -------- -----------                                                  -        -- - -                                - -- -  -  ---- -  --- - - -  -  ----- -  -  -  --.  -  -  a
6MAnoj Heusinu  Estate    Appraisal 1    := = =    I  tttttttIttl         ,,I5     He5 lUH5,5HH5#5U*5I                 2                    1                                         a
Actual    I                                  ttttttttt t**fi*uaes*esaese5aea5*5a5as5g;sHeHI*I5Hae5ast5sfraf                            I
*                     a                   ~          ~~I        1                    5                    1                   I                    I 
INWqpo llousinq Estate    Appramisal I=======                                                                o =   ttttttt,H,++4,fH,,,,,eI,6kIH4 51*fot*d d* f55Uae5a5:  I             a
Iteosu I*usint Estate     Aptraisal @e;-==== tittHH HH                           HHH*Ht                      
ts                 ~~~~~Actual    I                I             ttttttt,s.aIaIa.aeesaeIIaa.aaasaH5sashaa#55#.SeId                    I 
1a        :                    I                    I                   I                    1                    I                                         t
16oTm   l4ju   strial Estate  p   alsl      -             tttttttt  *1545aeH H H*HfHaI
Acrala
a ~    ~      ~      cta                                         tttttttee,eaaa.4Iseas4Htae4.tHHHHHHHHHHtI*5.Hte                      I                    S 
,Wu    lIater      Esalv  Appraisal t:::=                   tttt     It ttH,HHHffHa siI                                                      I                    a
a~~~~~~ Acual    I                                              ttttttttlt s,,h.",efihee.H,Ha,,eaeIsS,ae5f1e44H*H I                                                             a 
I                   I                    Ia                   I                                         a1 I
leDu later Supply         AppTaisal l====h G5  a=a=ttttttt H            HNtHtHHHtHtHtHHH                               I                    I                    I
:  ~~~~~~Atual    I                             ttt,       ttt4*4H44455a5,fh5H*s^*ae01flN                        I                    I                    a 
brodou Iater SWvply       aP isal I    :3::=:::= lttttttt    5H5HIHH5HtH                                                                   t
arodo later  Sul          Appraisal 1                    I                                                              Itt ttttt   . .u. aa3 a  a                I                    t
'Doisanado Briea                                         ,         tttttteaeH,e.aa HH              a A                                       a I  t
tJiDw CerNtdo l Rod       Appraisal t;5 5=:ttt5e tttttttt                                          a t                                       a                    *                    t
Mrimp                        ual                         S                    I                    I      tttHt HHHH I  tttttt
:AquKulture Omiapmt            BII :                             t                                 It                   I                    I                    I                    I
Oelkso  rLad   Weste   ktpil   I                                                                   IZ==  =   tttt HfHHH H H H H H N H U N t   
Iluaaqju Acess bad  Atual    I                  tttftttttttHtffa.*KHHtHHtHtHtHtHHtNtaafHtHHHffIfHaNHtWHHH HHttH HHWHtHtHtH a 
1.                    I                                                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      I                                         
:eos  'Oue         a       p  aal                                             I                                         I                                         I
tt                       Acr=iMl                         s And                                    a u     tt *sO5u u4 2w 
*:                                                       t                   s                    I a                                       t I                  *t t
t 1if,sa  Cadqe F        Aillo ppraisal 1n:=s===:        :ttttt     saIe.aHHHHHHHffHHHN5HI                             a                    )                    I                    a
aC                        1                   2                    1                    BtN &U§§**H    H   H                      I                    I
lJi.tad  e ehde           appraisal Is  :~:e::::ttttttttttt H 55f5*IflffIIHH5SHtUHH  UtHHNNNl5H5501 UH                                                           a ja
|;usn dndRenlsalRetActual   t1                                                                                   j                     tH ttttasfassaeefaaaaee.Ne14 4U5 5a*CHaHtUfHHtHU HtH
,wu~~~~~~~~~~~ a,As        s                    S                    .                    ,                    ,            HHtHH1 
ISAr i ep _ St eraqe Facility   Appraisal I           ttttt tt   aa sasa,seesas aI s, us aH a  ,  a  e  a  u  a  . aa__s aa a  a_           a                                         I-- -- _
5~ ~~~~~Ata 55  Eari                                                ttfNIHf5e5H5a1H44f                          I                    I
*tt    arn                                                                    :                                                             u                    a 
5aucutr d eveluput        Appiraisa Cettlt   ~    tttttt5aa#aa4I5H5faf*I5HHfh4*e#Nf5f                                                         
a                         Actual    I                    a                                                              a                   a                    a1



ANNEX 2
-22 -
KORER
SECOND WNWH6JU RE6ICOHL PROJECt (LOAN 1758-00)
PROJECt CIPLETION REPORT
Cmvarison of Rppraisal and Rctual Project Costs
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .. _.  _  _.................................. ...... ... ..._._
Rppraisal Estimate                              Rctual
I foreign                                 I Foreign
Conponents          Local  foreign  Total Exchange             Local  forcign  total Exchange
Housing Estate, 6umgJu         1,091   2,616   6,707       39S           6,100   3,613  10,021    36.1Z
Housing Estate, ngpo          ?,392   2,169   5,561        391           7,410   4,321   11,761    36.7%
Pousing Estate Yeosu           2,351    1,140   3,791      38Z           5,633   2,350   7.983    29.41
Juksan Residenfial              -       -        -                       1,605     828   2,633    31.52
Industrial Estate, hwangju     0,521   5,111  13,638       391          13,243   6,783  20,026    33.92
Industrial Estate, Nl*ow       3,869   2,579   6,418       I0L               0       0        0       -
Access Road                    1,088    1,541   3,425      452           2,955   1,993   4,940    10.3
Rogpo Uater Supply             2,060   1,979   1,039      '19            3,391    2,802   6,193    45.2?
Yeosu Uater Distribution         467     1'     082        i7n             282     282      564    50.0?
Ibrodo Oeuelopuent              205      149     351       12?             217     143      360    39,8?
RHgpo Drainage                  -                -       -               1,078     588   1,666    35.3?
Veosu Coerwcial Road           1,000     301   1,309       23?           2,343     460   2,811     16.6?
Dolsan Bridge                  1,060   1,464   2,524       58?           7,703  10,199  17,902    57.0?
Jindo Bridge                   1,312   1,887   3,199       59?           4,769   6,041   11,610    58.9?
Parodo Terninal (rerry)         -       -        -       -                 212     169      381    tl .Z
Shritp Storage (Itija Island)   451      288     739       39?             163     241      404    59.7Y
uiPuculture                    1,221     701   2,002       39S             169     670      0t7    00.0?
Technical Rssistance            873   1,310   2,183        60?           1,881   2,825   4,709    60.0?
Base Cost           32,768  24,033  56,601       12?
Phsical Contingencies          l,012   2,788   6,800       41S
Price Contingencies            6,784   4,714  11,198       41l
Total Contingencies      10,796   7,502  18,298       41?
TOTAL PROJECT COST      43,564  31,535  75,099       42?          59,695   K,124 104,819    13.0?
U*Xr  CCU==    =:*=U   UU U=X



ANNEX 3
- 23 -
KOREA
SECOND GUANSJU REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KO)
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
Financing Plan
(w sillion)
IBRD      "DC     City       KGB       KHB   Others    Total
Guangju Housing Estate       3,800         -      451         -    5,770         -   10,021
Nagpo Housing Estate         4,359         -    2,288         -    5,114         -   11,161
Yeosu Housing Estate         2,460         -    1,300         -    4,223         -    7,983
Juksan Land Re-adjusteent      608         -    1,825         -        -         -    2,633
G6angju Industrial Estate   7,797          -   12,239         -        -         -   20,026
Access Road                  1,926    3,022          -        -        -         -    4,948
Nagpo Vater Supply           2,126         -    2,007    2,060         -         -    6,193
Yeosu Mater Supply             237         -      181       146        -         -      564
Narado Water Supply            119         -        -       241        -         -      360
Nogpo Drainage                 941         -      725         -        -         -    1,666
Yeosu Commercial Rd.           599         -    2,212         -        -         -    2,911
Jindo Bridge                 4,115    7,495          -        -         -        -   11,610
Dolsan Bridge                5,339   12,563         -         -        -         -   17,902
Narado Terminal                i17       224         -        -         -        -      381
Aquaculture                    730         -         -        -         -      117      847
Shriep Storage                 169       186         -        -         -       50      404
T/A                          3,255    1,454         -         -        -         -    4,709
38,926   24,944   23,228    2,447   15,107        167  104,819
Others = NfC and Co-operatives



ANNEX 4
- 24 -
KOREA
SECOND 6WANBJU REGIONAL PROJECT !LOAN 1758-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement of Loan by Category
(USM Equivalent)
Category      Aoount allocated             Aount disbursed
in Loan Agreement      %      as of 12/31/85 X
Civil Works               40,000,000      61.5%    46,01B,287.88       9.9%
Equipment                  2,030,000       3.1%       921,564.07        1.8%
Aquaculture Credit           450,000       0.72              0.00      0.0%
Consultaot's               5,800,000       8.91     4,174,137.35       8.2Z
Services & Studies
Overseas Training            200,000       0.3%         85,671.99      0.21
Unallocated               16,520,000      25.4Z
TOTAL        65,000,000    100.0I     51,199,661.29    100.0I
Cancellation                                  13,800,338.71 al
a/ US$ 12.78 million was cancelled on October 9, 1984 and US$1.02 was
cancelled on December 18, 1985.



ANNIEX  5
- 25 -
KOREA
SECOND 6NANJJU REGIONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KU)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Accueulated Disburseemnts
(USS million)
Semester Ending              Appraisal                   Actual           Z
Estimate                               Disbursed
December 31  1979                  0.30                       0.00 al       0.02
June 30, 1940                      1.50                       0.00          0.0%
December 31  1980                  6.90                        1.41         2.21
June 30, 1941                     16.50                       4.06          6.2%
December 31  1981                 28.10                       7.96         12.22
June 30, 1942                     41.30                       11.81        18.21
December 31  1982                 52.40                       18.20        28.0Z
June 30, 1943                     63.20                      24.69         38.0Z
December 31  1983                 65.00                       41.32        63.6Z
June 30, i144                                                 46.85        72.11
December 31  1984                                            50.27         77.3Z
June 30, 1945                                                50.77 b/      78.1I
December 31, 1985                                            51.20 c/      78.8%
a/ Lcan became effective February 15, 1980.
bl Loan closing date. Disbursements were orocessed upto
December 1995 uhen the loan was officially closed
cl Out of a loan of US$65.00 sillion, US$12.78 aillion and
US$1.02 million *ere cancelled on 9/28/84 and 12/18/85,
respectively.



KRE
SECONID 6UNiJU O RESINAL PROJECT  LOAN 1758-MOAB
PROJECT COhPLETION REPORT
Sumary of Contracts
(Man Nillions)
Original Final
Bid       Biddinq      Signing       Start        End      Contract Contract
Subject                         Firm            Announcement    Date          Date         Date         Date     Amount -mount
6Sangju Housina Estate        Kuk Dong Construc.Co         10/06/80    Il/20/80    01/1501M    011201BI    10/03194           9,130    8,943
Hogpo Housing Estate          Hiryung Construction         10/06/80    11/20/90    12/20/80    12/26/90    09/21/83           6,575   10,337
Yeosu Housing Estate         Kumuang Company               10/06/80    11/20/80    12/201/0    12/26/B0    04/27/03           4,976    5,760
Gmangia Industrial Estate   hanila Construction Ltd         10/06/00    11/20/80    01115181    01120/91    12120163          7,723   15.702
Yeos. Commercial Road        Hanlla Construction Ltd       031121/2    04112182    05/03/82    05106/92    02125/B3             871      *936
Yeosu Mater Supply            Kyong Hyan? Construction    07/29/90    09/13/90    10/06/80    10/18180    12128/81              781       564
Narodo Mater Supply           Naudo Cons ruction Ltd.      10/06/90    11/20/00   12/20/90    12/26/80    12/25/81              334       318
Narodo Terminal               Naado Construction Ltd.      07/16/80    09/13/90    10/06/10    10/06180    10/31/81             343       376
loqpo Water Supply            Sam Bo Construction          10/29/79    12101/79    12/29179    12129/79    12128181           4,239    5094O
Imia Shrimp Storage           Dong 6wang Construction      11/10/80    12/10/90    12/20/80    12/26/80    09/07/82             477       402
8uangju Access Road           Han Kook Kun Up Const.       10/29/79    12/01/79    12/28/79    12120/79    12/20/83           3,245    4,614
Jindo Bridge                  Hyundai Construction Co.    09/10/80    11/17/80    12/20/80    12/26/80    12/30/84            9,866   11,401
Dolsan Bridge                 Daelim Industrial Co.        09/10/90    11/17/80    12120/90    12/26/80    12125/94           9,747   16,99B
Nogpo Drainage                Kyong Nam Enterprise         09/01/83    09/16/83    10104/93    10/10/93    07/05/84           1,229    1,306
Juksan Land Readjustment    Hankuk Pavement Cunstr.        11122/93    12/10/83    12/24/03    12/26/B3    11/30/05           2,010    1,992
Detailed Design for Ph 11   T.A.E.                                                   12/30/78    12/30/78    04/05/80           269       269
Construction SPf - Ph ll    KECC                                                     12117/80    12123f80    12131I93           338       287
Construction SPN Bridges    R.P.T.                                                   05/29/81    06/01/81    04/15/85         1,429    2,255
Cheonjh - Feasibility         KECC/SI6NA                                             05/18/11    05/1/81    05/13/82           768       759
Cheonja Design                KiCC                                                   12/22/82    12/29/82    12/26/83           919       849
Island Development Study    Doawa Technical                                          07/04/83    07/04/83    04/21/84            99        94
Evaluation                    Chonnam University                                     05/09/84    05/10/84    03/28/85            89        86
_    _   _    _--------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- -------
'a'



27                               ~~~~~~~~ANNIEX  7
- 27 -                                             1jP       of 4
KOREA
SECOND GSANGJU REGIOMNL PROJECT ILOAN 1758-KO)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Covenants in Loan Agrment
Section                       Activity                                               Remarks
4.05(b) IIC6 shall gradually raise average rate of taiffs     Mater rates wre raised in 1979 and in 1981.
for water supplied to camunities outside logpo
City so that by fiscal year 1995, the rate shall be
adequate to generate revenue sufficient to covw
the full cost of production, treatment and trans-
sission of water supplied to the comunities.
4.05(c) 6CS shall raise the average rate of tariff for        NIter rates  ere raised in 1979 and in 191.
water supplied at Narodo Islands by at least 5Z
annually in real terms until rate is adequate to
recover capital expenditures and operating and
maintenance cost.
4.06(a)(SCS, YC, 66C, and NFFC shall operate and uintain    Complied mith.
facilities transferred to thes.
4.Oa)(6CB shall make available staff, equipment and other   Complied with.
reswrces for proper operation and saintenance of
transferred facilities.
4.07    The borrower shall (a) cause the Daedong du to be    Draft maintenance plan was submitted in Sep. 1961.
periodically inspected; and Ib) cause Jefnora lNa
Provincial Government and ICS to prepare I furnish
to the Bank a report an such arrangements by
Decesber 31, 1980.
5.01    Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be executed on        Subsidiary Loan Agreemnt was executed in Nov. 79,
behalf of Borroer and 6C6, NC6, YC6, BBC and NFFC
as an additional condition of effectiveness.
5.02    Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be authorized or       lepl onon    lawd Decur   1979 and 1t low
ratified by the Borrower and 6C6, IC6, YC6, 66C and   ben  etfectlw on r*vy IS. 198
NFFC and shall be legally binding.
nal-                               flfl______ ef                             l                    - _ _



'                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX  7
28 -                                            Page 2 of 4
KOREA
SECOND GWAN6JU REGIONAL PROJECT ILOAN 1756-KO)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Covenants in Loan Agreesent
Section                        Activity                                                  Remarks
4.03(c) 6C6 shall allocate at least one third of the net         Not applicable.  No new residential areas were
residential area of any future housing development,   developed by the city during project period.
in the vicinity of new access road, to low-incose
housing to be sold to families with incomes in the
lower half of 6xangju City Household income
distribution at the time of sales.
4.041a) The Borrower shall take all measures to ensure the    Complied with.  Due to the delay in completion of
availability of adequate and timely water supply to   Dong Buk Dae, a smaller water supply project was
housing and industrial estates to be constructed in   added to the industrial estate.
Cwangju City.
4.04(b) The Borrower shall take all measures to ensure the    Haenan-bwangju and Swangiu-Nogpo sections were
completion of paving of highways which connect           paved. Work began in 1962 on Jindo-Haenas I due to
Jindo with Hamnam, 6vangju and Hogpo by the time         budget constraints, the road Nas not going to be
the bridge construction has been completed.              ready, but then Govt. made resources availabe in
1984 Supp. and 1985 budtet to get the roads ready.
4d05(a) Beginning with fiscal year lYE?- NCB and YCG shall    Water rates were raised in 1979 and in 1981.
raise the average rates of tariff by at least 5%
annually in real terms until the operations become
financially viable (sue of gross revenues from all
sources, consumer contributions in aid of construc-
tion and net operating income shall equal or exceed
the sum of all expenditures attributable to
operation, maintenance and administration (but
excluding depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), working capital requirements, payments of
interest and debt charges, taxes, cash dividends
and other cash distribution of surplus, any other
capital expenditures for which no financing has
been secured and any cash defecits incurred in any
previous fiscal year).



29  -                             ~~~~~ANNEX  7
- 29 -                                             Page 3of 4
KOREA
SECOND 6#AN6JU RE61ONAL PROJECT (LOAN 1758-KO)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Covenants in Loan Agreement
Section                         Activity                                                  Reearks
3.09(a) The Borrower shall by December 31, 1950 cause 6C6,    Complied Nith.  Due to the delay in construction,
NC6 and YCS to prepare and furnish to the Bank: (a)   the draft earketing plan was submitted in Sep. 91.
a marketing plan for allocation and sale of residen-  Revised plan incorporating the Bank's coments were
tial plots and core houses and for utilization of         discussed with the mission during Jan. 82. Due to
profits generated by the sale; and (bl a sanagement   the adverse economic situation, sales mere sltm, so
plan.                                                     eligibility criteria were revised to promote sales.
3.09(b) The Borrower shall by December 31, 1990 cause 6CG         Same remarks as 3.09(a) above.
and MC6 to prepare and furnish to the Bank: (a) a
marketing plan for the allocation and sale of
industrial plots and factory buildings and for
utilization of profits generated by the sale; and
(b) a management plan.
4.021a) 6C6, NCG, YC6, 66C, NFFC and IRCO shall maintain          Complied with.
separate reports and accounts reflecting all
expenditures.
4.02(c) Reports and Accounts to be audited for each fiscal    Cooplied with.
year and to be furnished to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
4.03(a) YC6 shall, (a) furnish to the Bank a draft urban          (a) A Naster Plan for Dolsan New Town was prepared
development plan for Dolsan Island by Dec. 31. 7'°    in October 1990.
and (b} take appropriate measures for payment of          lb) Yeosu city reaffirmed that priority in plot
adequate compensation and secure alternative acco-    allocation will be given to those displaced
modation and sites for families/enterprises              businesses at the fishery harbor industrial site
dispalced by construction of Yeosu Comeercial Road.   and new housing estate.
4.C3(bi MCS shall allocate at least half of the net               The North Port area was developed as part of this
res:dential area of any future housing development    project.  Mogpo City utilized savings in the loan
in the North Port area for construction of lower         due to cancellation of the Nogpo Industrial Estate
incoee housing to be sold to fanilies with incomes    to carry out land readjustsent scheme in the area.
in the lower half of fogpo City Household income
distribution at the time of sales.
_                                       - .  - - - _       - - - -- _    - - -____                         __---- -e 



30 -                                               ANMEX 7
-                                    ~~~~~~~Page 4 of 4
KOREA
SECOND 6WANBJU RE610NL PROJECT ILOAN 1758-KI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Covenants in Loan Agreement
Section                         Activity                                                   Remarks
3.02    The Borrower shall enter into subsidiary Loan              Coaplied with.  Subsidiary loan agreements were
Agreement vith 6C6, hC6, YCB and NFFC under terms         entersj into during November 1979 and the project
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including    became effective on February 15, 1950.
these in Schedule 5, and providing for repayment
to the Borrower by the above of all accounts
equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn.
3.03    The Borrower shall cause to be transferred, under          Complied with.  All facilities were handed over to
agreements satisfactory to the Bank, all facilities   respectable local governments & operating agencies.
promptly upon completion of construction, to the
various agencies and city governnents.
3.04    The Borrower shall provide and cause its relevant          Complied with although due to the economic
departments, KDB t KHB to provide sufficient funds    recession, the project suffered from the overall
to ensure timely and efficient carrying out of the    tight budgets during 1980/81.
project.
3.05    The Borrover shall employ consultants satisfactory    Detail design was completed by TAE/KECC. Contract
to the Borrower and the Bank to assist in prepara-    supervision was carried out by KECC for all civil
tion of plans, specs and bidding documents and for    vorks except Jindo and Dolsan bridges which were
supervision of construction.                              carried out by RPT.
3.07    The Borroxer shall promptly furnish to the Bank            Complied with.
plans, specs., reports, training programs, contract
documents, and work and procurement schedules and
any modifications or additions to in such detail as
the Bank may request.
3.99    The Borrower shall acquire all land and rights             Complied with.
required for carrying out the proiect and furnish
the evidence to the Bank.



-31-                                                  ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
KORER
SECONOD 119YMJU RE6IONRL PROJECT
PROJECT CIIlETIOH REPORT
ECONiI1 RE-EURLURTION
Jindo Bridge CSnponent
(in umn nillions, constant 1980 prices)
Costs                   Benefits
Develop    Ibinte-                  UOS       line        Net
Year       nent     nance      Total    Savings    Savings   Benefits
1980     115.0                 115.0                          (115.0)
1981     921.5                 929.5                          (924.5)
1982    1,730.1              1,730.1                        (1,730.1)
1983    3,617.0              3,617.0                        (3,617.0)
19i8    2,930.9              2,930.9                        (2,930.9)
1985      15.9        3.8       19.7        1.6     590.5      580.4
1986                  3.8        3.8        4.9     686.7      687.8
1987                  3.8        3.8       9.3      794.2      799.9
1988                  3.8        3.6      15.7      923.2      935.1
1989                  3.8        3.8       24.1    1,081.1    1,101.7
1998                  3.8        3.8       36.2    1 ,Z81.4    1,316.9
1991                  3.8        3.0      52.0    1,519.?    1,567.8
1992                  3.8        3.8       72.7    1,806.2    1,875.2
1993                  3.8        3.8     100.5    2,162.6    2,259.3
1994                 15.5       15.5      136.9    2,603.4    2,7Z4.8
1995                  3.8        3.8     187.1    3,190.0    3,373.3
1996                  3.8        3.8      251.4    3,890.7    4,138.4
1997                  3.8        3.8      335.4    4,769.1    5,100.8
1998                  3.8        3.8      4t5.6    5,882.3    6,324.1
1999                  3.8        3.8     589.1    5,787.0    6,372.4
2000                  3.9        3.9      785.5    7,707.1    8,488.9
2001                  3.8        3.8    1,034.0   11,104.1   12,514.3
2002                  3.8        3.8    1,516.9   15,75.7   17,228.8
2083                  3.8        3.8    1,700.3   18,217.7   19,991.2
2004                 15.5       15.5    2,089.0   21,126.4   23,199.8
Economic Rate of Return     18.32
Hote: 1. Deolment costs include land, construction and design and
supervIsion, but exclude taxes (estinated to be 5? of construction
costs).
2. Iaintenance costs and benefits obtained fri Ciwonau Ibtional
University 0evelopment Inpact Nalysls of lKangju Regional Projects'
lMrch 1985.



-32-                                  ANNEX 8
- 32 -                                              Page 2 of 7
KOREK
SECUO  OUAI(&U RE6IONRL PROJECT
PROJECT CIIPLETION REPORT
ECONIIOC RE-EURLURTION
Dolman Bridge Conponent
(in man nillions, constant 1980 prices)
Costs                   Benefits
Oeuelop-    7uinte-                 WOC       Tine        Net
Year      tient     nance      Total    Sauings    Savings   Benefits
1980       0.0                  0.0                              0.0
1981    1,055.7              1,095.7                        (1,055.?)
198I    1,635.0              1,635.0                        (1,635.0)
1993    3,699.6              3,699.6                        (3,699.6)
1981    7.159.4              7,159.I                        (7,159.4)
1985      51.3        3.8       58.0     503.9      217.6      663.5
1986                  3.8       3.8      SS9.5      241.5      797.2
1907                  3.8        3.8     615.1      265.5      076.9
1988                  3.8        3.8     6?0.9      289.5      556.6
1989                  3.8       3.0      725.8      313.3    1,035.3
1990                  3.0        3.0     811.1      337.3    1,141.9
1991                  3.8        3.8     845.9      365.1    1,207.2
1952                  3.8        3.8     955.0      486.1    1,437.3
1993                  3.8        3.8    1,406.2     607.1    2,009.6
1955                 15.5       15.5    1,607.3     728.5    2,100.2
1995                  3.8       3.8    1,968.1      849.0    2,811.5
19%                   3.0        3.0    2,250.5     971.5    3,218.2
1997                  3.0       3.0    2,540.1    1,096.8    3,633.4
15e8                  3.8        3.8    2,832.0    1,222.7    1,050.9
1999                  3.8       3.8    3,121.5    1,318.9    1,169.7
20W                   3.8        3.0    3,418.9    1,176.1    1,891.2
2001                  3.8        3.8    3,714.9    1,603.9    5,315.1
2002                  3.8        3.8    4,012.1    1,732-Z    b,71O.5
203                   3.8        3.8    1,312.1    1,861.9    6,170.6
2001                 15.5       15.5    1,634.9    2,011.7    6,634.0
Econonic Rate of Return *   11.5X
Note: 1. Deuelopent costs include land, construction and design and
superuision, but exclude taxes (estinated to be SX of construction
costs).
2. lanteance costs and benefits obtained fron Chomm National
Uhversity *euedopent Inpact RnOlysis of Kamgju Regional Projects'
narch 1985



- 33                                                    ANNEX 8
KORER                                                                               Page  3  of  7
SECOND ISifH6JU RESIONIL PROECT
PROJECT C0PLETION REPORT
ECOHNOC RE-£URlURTION
Yeosu C.mercial Component
(in von nillions, constant 1980 prices)
Costs                    8enefits
Oevelop-    Ibinte-                   UOC       line        Net
Year       Mnt       nance      Total    Swings    Savings   8enefits
1980
1981
1982    1,753.7               1,753.7                         (1,753.7)
1983      198.1                 4908.                           (498.1)
1989                   t.9        1.9       36.1       20.5       51.7
1985                   1.9        1.9       45.8       26.3       70.2
1986                   2.0        2.0       57.6       33.3       88.9
1987                   2.0        2.0       70.1       t0.8      109.3
1988                   2.0        2.0       05.3       19.7      133.1
1909                   2.0        2.0      102.9       60.0      160.9
1990                   2.0        2.0      156.9      10t.2      259.1
1991                   2.0        2.0      221.0      157.2      377.0
1992                   2.1        2.1      230.5      219.8      "8.2
1993                   2.1        2.1      389.3      299.2      681.4
199t                   2.2        2.2      t99.t      384.0      081.3
1995                   2.3        2.3      519.0      128.2      975.0
1996                   2.3        2.3      607.5      478.8    1,081.0
1997                   2.3        2.3      6U2.9      512.7    1,153.3
199                    2.1        2.1      681.0      St9.2    1,227.9
1999                   2.5        2.5     6W7.5       589.2    1,231.2
2000                   2.5        2.5      636.8      632.8    1,267.2
2001                   2.6        2.6      559.2      680.6    1,237.2
2002                   2.6        2.6      S26.1      732.9    1,256.4
2003                   2.7        2.7      199.8      790.1    1,287.2
Economic Rate of Return      11.01
Note: 1. Deuelopent costs include land, construction and design and
supervision, but exclude taxes (estirated to be 51 of construction
costs).
2. Ibintenance costs and benefits obtained from Chonnm National
University *Deuelomet Inpact Rnalysis of Kaangju Regional Projects'
March 1985.



-34 -                                                ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
SECOiD 61R16U RE610RIM  PMIECT
PROJECT CLEtIOH ROT
ECUONUC RE-EJRU3TINO
6agu Industriad Estae Cwponent
(in von illions, constant 190 prices)
Costs                                     eneWfits
eweop       tbinte-                 Land    ractory       Uater  Loal Tax         met
Year       rent      nae        Total      Sales      Sales   Reenues   Revenues   Benefits
1990
1981    3,869.5               3,869.5
1982    4,846.3               1,846.3      166.5                                     (4,679.7)
1983    6,110.3               6,110.3    7,153.0      182.0                             891.7
1981      821.7                 821.7    6,902.?      39S.4                           6,473.5
1985                  70.7       70.7      547.0      286.5                             762.8
1986                  70.7       70.7      798.5                 169.7                 897.5
1987                  70.7       70.7                            169.7        1.2       100.2
i9m8                  70.7       70.7                            169.7       $5.2       151.2
1989                  70.7       70.7                            169.7       111.3      210.3
i990                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      117.9      216.9
1991                  78.7       70.7                            169.7      121.5       223.5
1992                  70.7       78.7                            169.7      124.5      ZZ3.5
1993                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      124.5       223.5
1991                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      124.5      223.5
1995                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      121.5       223.5
1996                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      12.5       223.5
1997                  70.7       70.7                            169.7       121.5      223.5
1998                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      12.;       223.5
199                   70.7       70.7                            169.7      121.5       223.5
2000                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      121.5       223.5
2001                  70.7       70.7                            169.?       124.5      223.5
2002                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      124.5      223.5
2003                  70.?       70.7                            169.7      121.5       223.5
2001                  70.7       70.7                            169.7      124.5       223.5
Ecomic Rte of Return         D0.55
Not-,. i 0hopfflt costs include land, construction and design and suWrvision, but exclude taxes
(estieated to be St of construction costs).
2. ainmtetnec costs (including estinate of water supply operations) and vater reuenues
baed an discussions with 6ngju City officials.
3. Sales of land and factories and unit prices we Y.C. Kob's malysis (letter of June 10, 1987
1. Industrialist are exupted frm paying local taxes (Property and City Planning Planing Tax
at 0.61 and 0.21 repectivly) for 5 years.



-35 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
SECOND URR61U REGIOAl1 PROJECI
PROWECT COIIPETION REPORT
ECONIIiC RE-EURLUTION
hangju Hwsing Estate Cwonent
(in  on nillions, cotant 1980 price)
Costs                   Buefits
Qevelop-    Hadnte-            Carcia        Lvpued         Net
Year       nent      mnce       Total      Sales      Rents   Benefits
1990
1981      577.1                 577.1                           (577.1)
1992      94.4                  9".4                            (944.)
1983    5,830.7               5,630.7      555.5       90.6   (5,161.7)
1984      453.8                 153.8    1,167.2     S59.5    1,307.9
1985                 129.       12.        51A.0      591.5    1,012.1
1986                 129.4      129.4      328.1      612.3      811.1
i187                 129.1      129.4    1,196.0      6307    1,697.3
1988                 129.4      129.1                 649.6      520.2
1989                 129.4      129.4                 669.1      539.7
1990                 129.4      129.1                 689.2      559.8
1991                 129.4      129.4                 709.9      560.1
1992                 129.1      129.1                 731.2      601.7
1993                 129.4      129.1                 753.1      623.7
199                  129.4      129.4                 775.7      616.3
1995                 129.1      129.1                 799.0      669.5
1996                 129.1      129.1                 822.9      693.5
1997                 129.4      129.4                 847.6      718.2
1998                 129.1      129.4                 873.0      73.6
1999                 129.1      129.                  899.2      769.8
2000                 129.4      129.1                 926.2      796.0
2001                 129.4      129.1                 954.0      824.6
2002                 129.4      129.4                 982.6      9S3.2
2003                 129.1      129.4               1,01Z.1      882.7
2004                 129.4      129.4               1,042.5      913.0
Econmic Rbte of Retun        10.92
Note: 1. bouelopnnt cots ilude land, construction and desip and supesi
but excluded taxes (estlated to be S of cotruction costs).
2. Sales Mta taken frm Y.C. [oh's analysis (letter of June 10, 1987).
Land ualues are assuned to Increae at 32 p.a. in real term..



-36-                                              ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
S£CO  aimsU R8E6Im   PROJEC1
PM01ECC CiFlETION KMTOR
ECOIIC RE-EU8L.URTION                                                                                   U
Iogpo Housing Estate Coont
(In man aillins, constant 1980 prices)
Custs                   Bnerfits
O ldor    ruinte-              Cewcial   lpted             Net
Year      nrt        nsn        Total      Sales      Rents   Benefits
1910                                                     .0
1901    2,367.1               2,367.1                   0.0   (2,367.1)
9112    2,9N.7                2,974.7       30.1        0.0   (2,944.7)
1913    2,83.4                2,483.4       46.4       78.3   (2,358.?)
1981                 120.0      120.0      896.0      594.5    1,371.-
1915                 120.0      120.0      203.3      594.5      677.,
1916                 120.0      120.0      428.6      612.3      920.9
1917                 120.0      120.0                 630.7      SI.7
19*1                 120.0      120.0                 649.6      529.6
1989                 120.0      120.0                 669.1      549.1
1990                 120.0      120.0                 689.2      569.2
1991                 120.0      120.0                 709.9      589.9
1992                 120.0      120.0                 731.2      611.2
1993                 120.0      120.0                 753.1      633.1
1994                 120.0      120.0                 775.7      655.7
1995                 120.0      120.0                 799.0      679.0
1996                 120.0      120.0                 822.9      702.9
1"?                  120.0      120.0                 847.6      77.6
1998                 120.0      120.0                 873.0      753.1
199                  120.0      120.0                 8"9.2      m.2
20C0                 120.0      120.0                 926.2      806.2
2001                 1Z2.0      120.0                 954.0      834.0
2002                 120.0      120.0                 982.6      862.6
203                  120.0      120.0               1,012.1      892.1
2Q01                 120.0      120.0               1,042.S      922.5
Econmic Rate of Return        6.7Z
Note: 1. HaveI t costs include land, construction and design and smruisi
but aeluded taes (estilated to be S of construction costs).
2. Ilme  rte  of the estlmted cost of additional Juksmn Drairage Uorks
(est cat v. 2,727 aillion) exclude from  sts since benefits
Mil acrw  te wen as a Whole.
3. Sle dat to   frm Y.C. KIob's alsis (letter of June 10, 1987).
Id  lues me are d  to increase at 31 p.a. in real temns.



-37                                                AI_E 8
Page 7 of 7
KOME
SECORD 9161U RESIONIL  111ECI
PRIECT CM1ETIOP REPORT
ECOliRIC RE-E&URTION
Yeosu Housing Estate Cmponment
(in uon nillions, constant 1980 prices)
Costs                  Benefits
Oeuelop-    lainte-           Comercial    Inputed        Net
nent      awce      Total      Sales      Rents   8enefits
0.0
2,514.2              2,544.2                  0.0   (2,54.2)
3,247.4              3,247.4      462.2       0.0   (2,795.2)
735.0                735.0    1,133.0      338.4     736.4
83.4      83.4    1,309.3    5m4.5   1,90.5
83.4      93.4      558.6      594.5    1,069.8
83.4      83.4      652.1      612.3    1,191.0
93.4      83.4      398.7      630.7      546.0
83.4      83.4                 649.6      566.3
83.4      83.4                 669.1      585.8
83.4      83.4                 09.2       605.8
83.4      03.4                 709.9      626.5
93.4      93.4                 731.2      647.9
93.4      93.4                 753.1      669.7
93.4      83.4                 775.7      692.3
93.4      93.A                 799.0      715.6
83.4      83.4                 822.9      739.6
83.4      83.4                 847.6      764.3
83.4      83.4                 873.0      789.7
83.4      83.4                 999.2      815.9
83.4      83.4                 926.2      842.9
83.4      83.4                 954.0      970.6
83.4      83.4                 982.6      899.3
83.4      83.4               1,012.1      928.7
93.4      83.4               1,042.5     959.1
Economic Rate of Return     15.81
1. 8huelojnent costs include land, construction and design and supervisi
but excluded taxes (estimated to be 5t of construction costs).
2. Sales data taken frot Y.C. Koh's analysis (letter of June 10, 1987).
Land ualues are assuned to increse at 31 p.a. in real terns.



- 38-                                                      ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
KOMC
KM wwu  Ma FoWEoC
PROJWECT CNUtlEIN ItWLt
liuju City riiances
(in m million)
1900        19S1        1982         1983        1984        1985        Total
GEEBRL ACCUNT 
Rees                    25,811       33,591      33,420       37,075      40,575      54,58       225,330                                                 ;
Expenditures            24,098       32,177      31,362      34,147       36,614      49,39D      207,811
Capital I ornaimn      10,475       13,636       8,8t4        9,831      11,134      15,00?       68,927
01ficitlSnrol            1,721        1,414       2,058       2,926        3,931       5,46        17,519
........................................................................................................
SPECaL AUT
Revenues                13,683       23,321      32,980      t9,151       51,382      51,869     225,397
Ewnditures              10,769       18,234      23,425       41,843      47,306      48,149      189,726
Deficit/Sfuplus          2,914        5,097       9,555       7,l8         7,077       3,720       35,661
.......................................................I.................................................
ReveUes                 39,493       56,912      66,100      86,226       94,957     106,728      450,717
Expenditures            34,850       50,412      54,787      75,99D       83,949      97,540      397,537
Capital rsrmti.n       15,158       21,363      15,450      21,870       25,507      29,637     131,855
OeficitSurplus           t,635        6,501      11,613      10,236       11,00?       9,189      53,190
Siare of Capital
rmantion                43.51        42.12       28.2         28.01      30.42       30.41        33.22
Sorce: MONR Local 6out. Finace Y.8. (1981-85) ad lluncipal Y.8, (1906)                           14Jun-80
eo: a. 1985 6araBl  ccount Cpitl fomtion estimated using 1984 aveaes.
h  Cbined capital fornatin esinated using  en              Accwunt a ges for the Special Rccunt.



- 39                                                       AlE 9
Page 2 of 3
KORM
SECOND 6URNJU RE6IOlAL PRiJECl
PROJECT CillPLETION REPORT
nOW  City finances
(in u "llion)
1980       '981        1982        1983       1981        1985       Total
-E;N   RCMfl
Revenes                 7,841      12,153     12,701      16,352      14,573      15,525     79,146
Epitures                7,086      11,711     12,260      15,001      14,060      14,778     74,903
Capital rormtion       2,974       S,810      9,322       6,814       5,133      5,710      31,001
Deficit/Surplus           755         142        431       1,352         513        747       4,242
...       ...........................................................
SPECIaL RCMIT
Reenues                 5,726      10,612      9,660      15,046      13,855     14,931      69,930
Expenditures            4,990       0,929      9,186      13,963      11,097     12,097      61,263
Deficit/Surplus           736         683        474       1,083       2,750      2,833       8,560
.......................................................................................................
Revenms                13,567      22,765     22,362      31,398      28,429      30,456    148,976
Expenditures           12,076      21,640     21,iS4      28,94       25,157     26,875     136,166
Capital Forration      1,899      10,751      7,558      13,215       9,721     10,385      56,357
Deficit/Surplus         1,490       1,125        900       2,134       3,271      3,681      12,810
Share of Caital
fornation              40.62       49.71      35.2U       45.61       38.61      38.6?       41.42
Suc: MoM Loal  out, finance Y.9. (1991-85) and fluncipl Y.8. (1986)                        14-Jun-U
Nbte: a. 1985   nral Account Capil forration estimated using 198t ages.
b. CoWbined capital fornation estimted using   neral Account aerges for the Special Account.



-40                                                         ANNEX9
Page 3 of 3
KORE
SECOID W1RN16JU REGIMNRL PROJECT
PROIECT COIPLETI0N REPORT
Yeosu City finances
(in w nillion)
1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1985        Totl
GEERAL ICCOUNT
Revnues                  5,698        8,412       8,568       9,3t9        9,15       12,267      53,719
Ependitures              5,312        7,291       7,887       8,523       8,341       11,241      48,598
Capital fWrnation       2,195       3,016        2,821       2,674       2,166        2,919      15,791
Oeficit/Srplus             385        1,118         682         826        1,084       1,026       5,121
.. .............................. . ... .. ... ..    .            ....  ...... ..    ......  ... ...
SPECIL AECCEIM
Reveue                   3,739       6,580        9,150       ?,022       7,482        9,130      43,102
Expenditues              3,484       6,065        7,890       5,773       6,091        6,524      35,626
OeficitdSurplus            255          515       1,260       1,249        1,391       2,606       7,276
........................................................................................................
cOEnE
Revenues                 9,437      14,991       17,718      16,371       16,907      21,397      56,821
Ependitures              8,796      13,358       15,776      14,296      14,432       17,765      84,424
Capital feration        3,635       5,524        5,643       4,485       3,798        4,613      27,432
Oeficit/Surplus            640        1,633       1,942       2,075       2,474        3,632      12,397
Share of Capitdl
fontion                 41.31       11.31        35,8A       31.41       26.0?        26.0?       32.5?
Souce: MMNA Local  ou. finance Y8.i   (1561-85) and Ilunicipal Y.8. (1986)                      14-Jun-68
Note: a. 1885 6eneral Account Cital fornation estiated using 1984 aerages.
b. Conbined capital fornation estiated using Genral Rccount arages for the Special Account,



-41-
ANNEX 10
iX                       Page 1 of 3
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
Oct. 12, 1089
Mr. Alex&nder Nowicki
Division Chief
Operations Evaluation Dept.
World Bank
Dear Mr. Nowicki :
Re  : Korea - Second Gwangju Regional Project
(Ln. 1758 - Ko)
Opinion on Project Coitpletion Report
----------------------------------------------------
I appreciate your positive cooperation in completing
the Second Gwangju Regional PrQject.
I hope that the following opinion will be added to
your report
Following
o Where to be added
* 11, B , 2. 3, ( b) Design Standards for Housing Estatis
o Opinion to be added
After expandable core houses of 9 pyong, about 30isq. m,
and 12 pyong, about 40 squk.,were sold to the low



42 -                   ANNE 10
Page 2 of 3
income group, most of occupants expanded their
houses into more than 13 pyong, about 43 sj,~m,
past one or two years since they felt inconvenient
in living there owing to the small size.
Truly yours
Gil - Dae
Director
Regional Planning Division
Ministry of Construction



- 43                         ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
X-R RE:GIONAL CONSTRUTxION OIFjC:
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION, REPUBLIC OF KOREA
I-RI JEONRABUGDO KOREA
TEL I-R   52 - 1233
Ref . Jikae - 30500 -                                  Au gy.  29.  1989.
To    Axexander, Nowicki
Division Chief, Cperations
Evaluation Dept, I B R D.
Re  : Reply to Project (mupletion Report, Second Gwangju Regional Project
(tn. 1758 - ND)
We have the pleasure of thanks for your positive cooperation in
implementation of above project.
We have no object about above project, which you prepared othert than
followings.
fbllowings
S.  For J[ B. 2.3, (b) Design Standards For Hcusing Estates..
Actual the Governrment idea was diffrent with the Banks thugh, 9 PY
and 12 PY were decided and performed, and most of them were unconvenient to
live, therefore they extended to 13 IVY or more within one or two years.
Therefore, it made proof of that the original Government idea wes right.
Truly yours
Dit    sik
Director, I R C O



