Document of                 FILE COPY
The World BaHk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2615-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT O1 THE
INTERNATION\L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
OCR A
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT
August 9, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                Won
US$1                          W 485
W 1                           US$0.00206
W 1 million                   US$2,062
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)                 -    0.03937 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                       =    39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)                  10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                   35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer                       -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    -    10,000 sq m or 2,471 acre or
3,024 pyongs (py)
1 pyong (py)                      =    3.307 square meter (sq m) or
35.586 square feet (sq ft)
1 liter (1)                       -    0.264 US gallon (gal) or
0.220 Imperial gallon
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)       0.264 US gallon per capita
per day (gcd)
1 m  ric ton (mt)                -    1,000 kilograms (kg) of
2,240 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton per day (mtd)        =    1,000 liters per day of water (approx.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPB    -   Economic Planning Board
GRCO   -   Gwangju Regional Construction Office
JNP    -   Jeonra Nam Province
KECO   -   Korea Electric Company
KHB    -   Korea Housing Bank
KNHC   -   Korea National Housing Corporation
KRIHS  -   Korea Research Institute on Human Settlement
MOC    -   Ministry of Construction
MOAF   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NFFC   -   National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
OSROK  -   Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
OOF    -   Office of Fisheries
ROK    -   Republic of Korea
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



KOREA              FOR OFFICiAL USE ONLY
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Construction (MOC); Cities of Gwangju,
Mogpo, and Yeosu; and the National Federation of
Fisheries Cooperatives (NFFC)
Amount:            $65 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% p.a.
Relending Terms:  $46 million will be relent to project agencies for a term
of 17 years, including 2-3 years of grace, with interest at
7.95% p.a. The remaining $19 million will be given to
MOC and NFFC as grant. The Borrower will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The project is located in Jeonra Nam Province (JNP),
one of Korea's least developed regions. The project's
objectives are to reduce regional income disparities
and outmigration from JNP by providing both rural and urban
employment opportunities and by raising infrastructure and
service standards in the region's cities. The project
includes: (a) nearly 3,950 serviced residential plots in
Gwangju, Mogpo, and Yeosu with expandable core-houses
designed for low-income families; (b) about 200 ha of
serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo to
accommodate 16,000-20,000 employees; (c) improvements to
water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu, and Narodo, including
transmission, treatment, distribution and operations;
(d) construction of two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo
islands to the mainland, improvements in ferry service
between the mainland and Narodo and improvements to a
1.9 km road in Yeosu; (e) an aquaculture development
program and a storage facility at Imja island for the
shrimp used to prepare kimche (a national dish); and
(f) technical assistance in regional planning, aqua-
culture development, water supply system operation and
management, and preparation of a third regional project.
The main risks are: (a) the possibility that contruction
costs may escalate faster than other costs: (b) that the
planned expansion of the Gwangju City water supply system
may be delayed; (c) that water rates may not be increased
sufficiently; and (d) that the acquaculture component,
which is novel for NFFC, may not develop as planned if
adequate qualified staff is not made available and effective
administrative procedures are not applied. Measures to
reduce these risks are included in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- li -
Project Cost:
-------------- ($ million) ------…-----
Local    Foreign    Total    % of total
Housing estates (3#)                 20.2       12.9       33.1         28.3
Industrial estates (2#)              29.4       19.1       48.5         41.4
Water supply projects (3#)            5.6        5.2       10.8          9.2
Transportation project (3#)           7.0        7.5       14.5         12.4
Fisheries projects (2#)               3.5        2.2        5.7          4.9
Technical assistance                  1.8        2.7        4.5          3.8
Subtotal                       67.5       49.6      117.1         100.0
Contingencies
Physical                            8.3        5.7       14.0
Price                              14.0        9.7       23.7
Total                          89.8       65.0      154.8
Financing Plan
IBRD                                    -       65.0       65.0         42.0
Central Government Grants            20.1          -       20.1         13.0
Central Government Loans              6.9          -        6.9          4.4
Korea Housing Bank                   20.9          -       20.9         13.5
City Governments                     41.9          -       41.9         27.1
Total                          89.8       65.0      154.8         100.0
Estimated Disburse-
ments from Bank Loan:
----------- ($ million) ------------
Bank FY                    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual                      0.3      6.6    21.2    24.3    12.6
Cumulative                  0.3      6.9    28.1    52.4    65.0
Rate of Return:                         23% (weighted average of 13 subprojects)
Staff Appraisal Report:                 No. 2469a-KO, dated July 19, 1979



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $65 million to further
enhance the development of the Gwangju Region and reduce regional imbalances
through industrial decentralization, development of secondary cit:ies and
increase of the primary sector's productivity. The loan will have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Rapid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SECM79-390, dated May 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.        During 1977 and 1978, the performance of the Korean economy
outstripped on several fronts the targets set out for these years in the
Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81). In these two years, the growth rate of GNP
was 11.5% per annum (as compared with the annual average of 9.5% postulated
in the Plan), investment in real terms grew at the remarkable rate of 30% per
annum, and the domestic savings rate grew much faster than anticipated in the
Fourth Plan. Per capita income in current dollars, which was at a level of
$700 in 1976, reached nearly $1,250 in 1978.
4.        These developments were accompanied by a rapid transformation in
the employment and poverty situation. The official rate of unemployment
declined to 3.2% (in 1978), nominal wages rose rapidly at about '34% per annum
in the manufacturing sector, and the labor force in agriculture declined at
the rate of about 3.8% per annum in 1977-78. The problems of low productivity
employment, surplus labor, and extensive absolute poverty began to recede and
gave way to concerns about labor shortage, particularly of skilled labor.
5.        Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets in
spite of an uncertain international environment. In addition to export
growth, the terms of trade continued to improve in 1977 and there was a
spectacular growth in net receipts from overseas construction contracts. In
1978, Korea obtained new construction contracts of about $8 billion in the
Middle East, with gross receipts totalling over $2.0 billion. As a result of
continued export growth, improvement in the terms of trade, and growth in
receipts from overseas construction contracts, the current account balance
improved ahead of the Fourth Plan schedule and there was a small current
account surplus ($12 million) in 1977. In view of the improved balance of
payments position, and of the need to promote allocative efficiency and to
/1 This section is substantially the same as the corresponding one in
the President's Report on the Third Small and Medium Industry Bank
Project (No. P-2604-KO), dated June 21, 1979, which was distributed
under cover of R79-178, dated June 29, 1979.



counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978 a
far-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to international
private capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment, ahead
of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard terms
during 1974-75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly rising
prices of its major imports, especially petroleum and foodgrains, as well as
the international recession.
Some Emerging Problems and Long-Term Prospects
6.        The remarkable progress made in the last fifteen years or so has
carried the Korean economy to a new threshold of development, but the new
opportunities have brought with them new challenges. The critical issue
facing the Korean authorities is how to reconcile a high rate of economic
growth with the social and economic objectives of price stability, equity and
a more balanced pattern of urban development.
7.        Price stabilization is one area in which the performance of the
Korean economy has fallen short of the objectives of the Fourth Plan. The
rise in the consumer price index, which was about 10% in 1977, accelerated to
14.9% in 1978; the corresponding increases in the wholesale price index were
9% and 11.7%. It is believed that inflation has been fuelled by the rapid
rise in the rate of investment, which, in turn, has been associated with the
rapid increase in the demand for consumer goods. The installation of
some excess capacity in the heavy and chemical sectors has been cited as a
contributory factor, and there is also a widely-held view that the emphasis
on exports and growth may, perhaps, have been excessive. The consequences of
a high rate of inflation have been widespread: the low-income groups have
been hit particularly hard by the steep increase in the prices of necessities;
the middle-income groups are concerned about the rising cost of housing and
the eroding of the real value of their financial assets. Moreover, rapidly
rising real wages could affect the long-term competitiveness of Korea's
exports.
8.        Though the Government is seriously concerned about the pervasive-
ness of inflationary psychology, it feels that, in the long run, growth can
be reconciled with reasonable price stability through the coordinated imple-
mentation of a series of measures. Over the short run, it is expected that
the rise in food prices can be moderated by the import liberalization of food
items, a reform of agricultural price policy, the release of food products
from government stockpiles, and increased domestic production. For fuel and
energy prices, some significant upward adjustments may be both inevitable
and desirable for energy conservation.  In housing, policies for the control
of land speculation and an expansion in the supply of housing have had a
moderating influence. As for industrial products in general, import liberaliza-
tion is expected to contribute to a reduction in the pace of inflation in the
short-run, and to play a significant part in maintaining productivity growth
over the longer term. Over the eighties, as the Korean economy becomes more



- 3 -
fully integrated with the international economy, a policy of restrained
monetary expansion combined with fiscal discipline and financial liberalization
could play a key role in bringing the Korean rate of inflation in line with
international rates. In April 1979, the Government announced a stabilization
program encompassing a series of initiatives designed to address these
elements of the inflation problem.
9.        Korea's economic development has been widely acclaimed for having
achieved growth with equity. However, by the mid-seventies there was some
concern about the worsening of the distribution of income. The essential
conclusion reached in the 1977 Basic Economic Report, nevertheless, remains
valid, that a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to achieve the
objectives of greater equity through the creation of additional employment
and the generation of additional public resources to enable the provision of
direct assistance to the poor. However, at the new threshold at which the
Korean economy has arrived, there is the need for a redirection of efforts
towards reconciling growth with equity. In order to achieve a better rural/
urban balance, the Government has reiterated its support of the Saemaeul
Movement, the generation of off-farm employment opportunities and programs to
improve agricultural productivity. It has also announced its intention to
undertake a detailed review of its agricultural price support program. For
interpersonal equity, more resources would have to be devoted to the educa-
tional sector with increased emphasis on improving the lower income group's
access to the system. The Government is attempting to address these issues
through a long-term education plan. To help the poor, the Government is
moving to strengthen programs focussed directly on the target groups and away
from the former reliance on general subsidies, whose effects tend to be
relatively diffused.
10.       Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been one
of the highest among medium- and large-sized countries. In the early phases
of its growth process, Korea economized successfully on social and urban
development expenditures, particularly in transportation and housing. The
severity of the housing shortage, for example, is illustrated by the fact
that the ratio of housing units to households declined steadily from 82.5% in
1960 to 74.4% in 1975. With the rapid growth of household incomes and the
concentration of population in major urban centers, particularly Seoul and
Busan, the demand for urban services is rising rapidly. In addition, environ-
mental deterioration has been accelerated by population concentration and the
pattern and pace of industrialization. The Government has made a beginning
towards meeting these problems by adopting a two-pronged strategy - a dispersal
plan to reduce pressures on Seoul and Busan, and a program to improve housing
and transport within these two cities.
11.       In view of the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean
economy, it seems reasonable to assume that Korea will be able to tackle its
emerging problems and sustain its rapid growth through the 1980s. The
long-term projections for Korea, prepared by the Korea Development Institute
in collaboration with Government agencies, suggest that Korea could attain,
consistent with its social objectives, an average rate of growth of about 10%



-4-
per year over the next decade. While the long-term prospects appear to be
promising, the implications of the increased competition from developing
countries in export markets, protectionism in the developed countries, the
technological complexities of Korea's new industries, and labor and raw
material shortages, etc., should not be overlooked. Moreover, it is important
for Korea to develop, in the context of subsequent 5-Year Plans, appropriate
solutions to avoid the typical pitfalls of affluence experienced by the
developed countries; these include such problems as the dominance of private
automobiles in the transportation system, inefficient use of energy, costly
and inefficient welfare systems, and above all, inadequate systems of industrial
readjustment in response to the country's changing comparative advantage.
Near Term Prospects and External Capital Requirements
12.       In the light of these emerging problems and in the context of the
stabilization program announced in April 1979, the Government has prepared a
new Economic Management Plan (EMP) for 1979-81, revising its projections for
the three remaining years of the Fourth Plan. The EMP expects a slowdown in
the growth rate of real GNP from the 11.5% achieved in 1977-78 to 9.3% per
annum during 1979-81, a deceleration in the growth rate of real exports of
goods and non factor services from 22% p.a. to 12% p.a., and in the growth
rate of real investment from 30% p.a. to 13% p.a. The growth rate of imports
is expected to exceed that of exports. Owing to the expected increase in
the value of imports (import prices of crude oil and raw materials are
expected to rise), the current account deficit during 1979-81 is estimated to
be about $2.5 billion per year. Allowing for the repayment of past external
loans (about $1.1 billion per year) and the augmentation of foreign exchange
reserves (about $1.3 billion per year), the total gross requirements of external
capital are estimated to be about $4.5 billion per year during 1979-81. If
short-term inflows are to be limited to about $1 billion per year, gross
disbursements of medium- and long-term capital inflows will have to amount to
about $3.5 billion per year.
13.       While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond markets, the magnitude
of these external capital requirements is such that it will have to continue
to rely on considerable capital inflows from official sources, including
Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized that the higher anticipated
levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth Plan targets) are a
consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a shortfall in the
domestic savings rate. Thus, more than 90% of Korea's investment will
continue to be financed from domestic savings. The ratio of foreign savings
to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties, following the restructuring
and readjustment planned for the next three years. Servicing of the debt
should not pose difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the
prospects for continued export growth, provided that the proportion of
external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest rates is not
excessive. External debt as a percentage of exports has not increased over



5-
the years, and the level of foreign capital inflows required during 1979-81
seems consistent with a reasonable debt service ratio (of about 12-13% in the
early 1980s) and with continued growth with price stability. It would also
create conditions which would be conducive to the harmonization of growth
with equity.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
14.       As of June 30, 1979, Korea had received 43 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,401.5 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$876.9 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
15.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.
16.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks.  The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 mil-
lion, the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small and Medium
Industry Bank $85 million /1 in Bank loans for relending to private industry.
The primary beneficiaries of these loans have not been the development banks,
but the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones,
which have been provided with financing through the financial interiLediaries.
This has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial
sector, but has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improve-
ments and of the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan
of $80 million for a Heavy M4achinery Project was intended to assist in
achieving the structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is
necessary to ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export stratetgy. A
recently approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate arid support
the development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics
industry.
17.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industrializa-
tion has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport fa-
/1   A loan of $60.0 million for the Third Small and Medium Industry Bank
Project was approved on July 12, 1979.



- 6 -
cilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's efforts
to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has played
an important role in these developments. Some $340 million has been provided
for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity and im-
prove its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made for
highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities
at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
18.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
19.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen
agricultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in
the country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and
made possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of
the 40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily
on agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was provided by the
Bank to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system.
20.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region.
21.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
June 30, 1979, entered into 24 commitments, totalling $69.0 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs



- 7 -
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few
years.
22.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is
to provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing. The basic issue is
whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to the extent
necessary to ensure the attainment of its export targets. Lending to industry
will be diversified by the provision of a loan to the Citizens National Bank
in support of the small enterprises as well as a loan for a second machinery
project, which will provide financial and technical assistance to small- and
medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to introduce
RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs of industrial
development. In addition to the loan for the Electronics Technology Project
which was approved on March 22, 1979, a loan for the technological development
of technology-intensive industries is envisaged in the lending program.
23.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements
of the economy is, therefore, proposed.
24.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for
land/ water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and
processing and for the further development of rural infrastructure and
facilities in selected provincial areas, which would enhance incomes and
quality of life in the lesser developed regions of the country and would
have a significant impact on the problem of migration to the major metro-
politan areas.
25.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural
sectors and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent
infrastructural development. Although the transport sector will be given
less emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large and,
thus, there is considerable support for this sector in the proposed lending
program.
26.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt dis-
bursed and outstanding at the end of 1977 was about 11%, and its share of
debt service was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are
expected to increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the end of the
present decade.



-8-
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Gwangju Region
27.        Gwangju, one of Korea's poorest, least developed regions, is a
primarily rural area in the southwest (see attached Map) which has not
participated significantly in the rapid urban-industrial growth of the past
15 years. During the early 1970s, the Government formulated and began to
implement a regional strategy to accelerate Gwangju's development. Several
previous Bank-financed projects, as well as the proposed project, form an
important element of that strategy. Its primary objectives are to promote
industrialization and improve living conditions in the region's cities and to
enhance the economic prospects of the island populace through improved trans-
port linkages and fisheries activities.
Jeonra Nam Province
28.        Jeonra Nam Province (JNP), with 4 million residents and an area of
12,093 sq km, accounts for 94% of both the population and area of the Gwangju
Planning Region. Government estimates indicate that in 1976 Jeonra Nam
and Jeonra Bug were Korea's poorest provinces, with per capita regional
products of about 80% of the national average. In 1974, the primary sectors
(agriculture, forestry, hunting and fishing) accounted for 74% of the employ-
ment in JNP, compared to 49% nationwide. Only 5.4% of the employment was in
manufacturing, one third of the national figure of 16.2%. In 1975, 26% of
its residents lived in cities of 50,000 or more, compared to 48% nationwide.
JNP's population has been stagnant, growing only 0.3% a year during 1970-75
compared to national growth of 1.7% per annum. It has had one of the country's
highest provincial net out-migration rates, losing population primarily to
the Seoul and Busan metropolitan regions.
29.        Economically, JNP is characterized by lagging industrial development,
high agricultural densities, and a large coastal and island populace heavily
dependent on mixed agricultural and fisheries activities. The province has
not participated significantly in Korea's rapid industralization. Although it
accounted for 11% of the national population in 1976, its share of full-time
manufacturing employment was only 3%, and it contributed only 5% to value
added in the sector. Although agricultural yields are only slightly below the
national average, the average cultivated area per farm household in 1976 was
.84 ha in JNP compared to .98 ha in the rest of Korea. In 1975, 47% of JNP's
rural populace lived in island or coastal subcounty administrative units.
Part-time aquaculture is JNP's primary fishery activity. Only 5% of the
fishermen are engaged full-time, and 87% of the part-time fishermen practice
aquaculture. In 1976, JNP produced 45% of the national output of sea-cultured
products, including 75% of the seaweed; favorable environmental conditions
would permit considerable expansion of seaweed output, whereas the coastal
waters are already fished to near the limit of productivity.
30.        Partly because of the province's lagging industrial development,
JNP's four cities have been unable to attract a large proportion of the
rural outmigrants.  JNP's urban growth rate of 3.3% per annum during 1970-75



was considerably lower than the national rate of 5.0%. In 1974, 18% of JNP's
urban employment was in manufacturing, compared to 32% for all cities. A
special survey in 1974 indicated that the average urban household income in JNP
was 78% of the national urban average; Mogpo City had the lowest income in
the country. Bank estimates indicate that in 1978 about 18% of JNP's urban
households had incomes below the urban poverty threshold, compared to 9%
nationally.
31.       JNP's cities all have serious deficiencies in basic services,
especially water supply and housing. Domestic water consumption ranges from
about 40 to 60 lcd, well below the levels considered reasonable for maintaining
adequate urban amenity and health standards. In Mogpo and Yeosu, water supply
to large areas is limited to a few hours a day, and the lack of reliable,
adequate water supplies has impeded industrialization and other forms of urban
development. Housing, especially for the low-income populace, is scarce in
JNP's cities as elsewhere in urban Korea. The 1975 census indicated that
there were considerably more families than housing units; there were only
79,527 units for 185,072 households, an average of 1.75 households per unit.
The shortage of units results in extensive sharing of units and overcrowding.
In 1975 there was an average of 2.5 people per room in urban housing units in
JNP. Public housing production has been insufficient to reduce this shortage
substantially and has generally been affordable only by middle-and upper-income
families.
B. Regional Planning and Development
32.       Korean planners have devoted considerable attention to spatial
planning issues, primarily because of land constraints (about two-thirds of
the land area is mountainous or other highland unsuitable for agriculture or
large settlements) and a growing awareness of the uneven impact of Korea's
phenomenal economic growth. The most important spatial policy instruments
have been incentives discouraging industrial location in Seoul and Busan,
land-use controls, development of the national transportation network,
provision of local rural infrastructure through the Saemaul ("New Community")
movement and regional development plans and projects. The major successes
of these policies have been the diversion of industrial growth from Seoul
and Busan to satellites around the metropolitan centers, the virtual elimi-
nation of the gap between average urban and rural household incomes and the
establishment of a strong system of land-use controls. However, less attention
has been devoted to overcoming regional disparities, and provinces such as
JNP, Jeonra Bug and Gangweon, have not participated fully in Korea's develop-
ment.
33,       Systematic national land-use and regional planning began during the
early 1960s and led to a comprehensive National Land Development Plan
for 1972-81 which divided the country into eight regions (including Gwangju),
presented sectoral analyses and identified development guidelines and priority
projects for each region. A UNDP-financed study, initiated in 1974, prepared a
more detailed regional plan for Gwangju and, in 1975, in accord with the
institutional agreements for the Bank-financed Secondary Cities Regional Project



- 10 -
(Loan 1070-KO), MOC established a Gwangju Regional Development Unit (GRDU)
in Gwangju city to increase local involvement in the planning process./l
The objectives of the projects and other measures identified in the Gwangju
Regional Plan were to: (a) lower outmigration; (b) reduce the disparity
in per capita incomes between Gwangju and the more developed regions;
(c) raise infrastructure and service standards to national targets, espe-
cially in the urban areas; and (d) strengthen regional and national planning
capabilities.
34.       The Government has undertaken several domestically and internationally
financed projects to implement its regional development strategy in Gwangju.
A major petrochemical industrial estate at Yeochan and local industrial
estates at Gwangju and Mogpo Cities were initiated during the late 1960s, and
another local estate is under construction at Suncheon City. Bank-financed
projects have improved Gwangju's transport network, supported agricultural
and fishery development and improved urban infrastructure and services. The
first three Highway Projects (Loans 769-KO, 956-KO and 1203-KO) included
support for national highways linking Gwangju City with Seoul and Busan and
improved the provincial network connecting the cities of Gwangju, Mogpo and
Suncheon. Two Asian Development Bank-financed projects have also strengthened
Gwangju's transport network. Agricultural development has been supported by
the Bank through the two Yong San Gang Irrigation Projects (Loan 795/Credit
283-KO and Loan 1364-KO) which together will provide for the irrigation of
about 54,000 ha of farmland.
35.       The Secondary Cities Regional Project approved by the Bank in
1975 included 2,016 serviced residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu,
6.6 km of access roads in Mogpo and Yeosu, a city market in Suncheon and a
fishery harbor complex in Yeosu with on-shore facilities, including a market
and cold storage. Civil works for the project were substantially completed
in July 1978, an overall delay of only six months; costs were only about 10%
over the estimate at appraisal in spite of substantial inflation. The first
project's main innovations were in housing and regional planning. The
project broke new ground in providing long-term financing for lot purchasers
for the first time in Korea. The serviced plots also provided Korea's first
experience with inexpensive core housing affordable by low-income families.
Considerable oversubscription indicated the popularity of this approach, and
profitable open-market sales of about 40% of the net saleable area of the
project sites demonstrated that cross-subsidies can be used to lower prices
for poorer purchasers.
36.       The institutional arrangements and technical assistance introduced
as part of the project supported decentralized regional planning and enabled
provincial and local authorities to play important roles in identifying and
preparing the components of the proposed project.  Studies financed under
the project and conducted by an association of foreign and local consultants
assessed the feasibility of projects identified in the regional planning study
/1   When MOC decided to establish decentralized units in several provinces
in 1977, GRDU and its functions were incorporated in the Jeonra Nam
Regional Construction Office (JNRCO) which was subsequently renamed as
the Gwangju Regional Construction Office (GRCO).



- 11 -
and prepared proposals for nine of the components included in the proposed
project. The other components of the proposed project were prepared by GRCO
with the assistance of local consultants and Bank missions.
37.       The proposed project would reinforce other investments in Gwangju
and play an important role in the implementation of the regional development
strategy formulated with UNDP and Bank assistance. By stimulating development
of JNP's coastal and island areas, the fisheries components and two bridges
would complement agricultural projects in enhancing primary sector income-
earning opportunities, thereby reducing migration from the rural areas. The
urban components will improve JNP's ability to retain its population and
encourage migrants to remain in the province rather than going to Seoul or
Busan. The two industrial estates will accommodate a significant increase in
manufacturing employment, the water supply projects in Mogpo and Yeosu will
remove critical bottlenecks to expansion, the transport projects in Yeosu
will improve the efficiency of its land use and transport patterns, and the
housing estates in all three cities will reach a group not currently served
by public programs. Compared to the first regional project, the proposed
project places considerably more emphasis on direct employment creation and
income enhancement and has a broader geographic and sectoral focus.
38.       Institutionally, preparation of the project has encouraged central
and provincial authorities to cooperate in developing a more comprehensive,
integrated perspective on the region's needs and in identifying priority
investments. The Bank's participation in this process has helped the Govern-
ment translate its regional plans into well-designed subprojects, several of
which introduce important innovations, much sooner than if they had been
prepared as individual projects. The proposed project has been formllated to
ensure that Bank policies, administrative procedures, and appraisal standards
could be met while causing minimal disruption to the Government's muLti-sectoral,
decentralized, evolving and yet efficient approach to regional development.
In the formulation and appraisal of the project, every effort has been made
to work through the existing administrative structure, to support institution-
building at the city and provincial levels and to use conventional Bank
procedures in a flexible way to accommodate a unique project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second Gwangju Regional
Project (No. 2469a-KO, dated July 19, 1979) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were
held in Washington from June 25 to July 2, 1979 with a Korean delegation led
by MIr. Sung Il Cho, Director General, National Physical Planning Bureau,
Ministry of Construction.



- 12 -
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) nearly 3,950 serviced residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and
Yeosu with expandable core-houses designed for low-income
families;
(b) about 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo
to accommodate 16,000-20,000 employees;
(c) improvements to water supply systems in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo, including transmission, treatment, distribution and
operations;
(d) construction of two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands to the
mainland, improvements in ferry service between Narodo and the
mainland and improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yeosu;
(e) an aquaculture development program aimed at enhancing
fishermen's incomes and a storage facility at Imja island
for tiny salted shrimp used to prepare kimche (a national
dish); and
(f) technical assistance in the areas of regional planning, including
an island development study, aquaculture development, water
supply system operation and management, and preparation of a third
regional project.
Detailed Features
41.       Housing Estates.  The housing component will expand on the experience
of the first regional project which has been successfully implemented. Housing
sites will be located in Gwangju (31.9 ha), Mogpo (18.5 ha), and Yeosu (17.2
ha) with about 1850, 1115, and 980 residential plots, respectively. Nearly
60% of the net residential area on each site will be devoted to low-income
housing. The remainder will be sold as 136-230 sq m plots at market prices
for middle-income housing. The profits generated from sale of these plots
will be used to cross-subsidize low-income plots. The low-income housing
would consist of: 30 sq m core-houses expandable to 53 sq m on 90 sq m plots,
and 40 sq m core-houses expandable to 60 sq m on 100 sq m plots, roughly in
equal proportion. The housing estates will be fully serviced with roads,
water supply, drainage, and electricity, and adequate space will be provided
for commercial and community facilities which will be constructed and operated
by relevant local agencies.



- 13 -
42.       The 30 sq m core-house, designed for families at about the 25th
percentile of the household income distribution curve in project sites,
would consist of two rooms, a toilet and a kitchen. Because of the severity
of Korea's winters, it is essential to provide a heated, habitable core
for initial occupation. The house designs have been developed after a study
of housing under the first project which analyzed the alterations and additions
made by the occupants as well as their views on the designs. The proposed
size of the 30 sq m core-house is small compared to a house in a conventional
public or private housing project. Rising construction costs and high
mortgage terms (currently 16.5% for 20 years) place even a 30 sq m core-house
well beyond the reach of households in the bottom half of the income
distribution. As a result, the core-houses are being designed to permit
renting of a room to supplement household income, expand the supply of rental
rooms and lower rental costs to the low-income groups. In addition, cross-
subsidization through market sales of larger, open plots and a graduated
mortgage plan will help make the houses affordable by the target income
group. The criteria and administrative arrangements for the allociation
of housing plots were agreed upon during negotiations (Schedule 6 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
43.       Industrial Estates.  Fully serviced industrial estates are proposed
to be developed at Hanam Myun on the outskirts of Gwangju and at Radang
across from the existing estate in Mogpo. The gross area of the Gwangju and
Mogpo industrial estates would be approximately 150 and 50 ha, respectively,
which were determined conservatively after a thorough demand analysis.
Development would include access roads and on-site road networks, water
supply, surface drainage, electricity, telecommunications and administrative
buildings. Standard factory buildings will be built on about 75% of the
industrial plots for small-scale industries. Because industries locating
on the estates would have access to sufficient existing sources of finance
for equipment and working capital, special arrangements for this type of
credit have not been made in the project. When fully occupied, the two
industial estates would employ about 18,000 workers. Analysis of the compo-
sition of the industries likely to be attracted to the estates suggests that
manufacture of machinery and equipment (including electronics), textiles,
apparel and chemical and rubber products will probably be predominant
in Gwangju, whereas activities more dependent on local resources (e.g.,
food and beverage, non-metallic mineral and wood products) will be prevalent
in Mogpo. The Gwangju industrial estate water supply would, in the long
term, be dependent on improvements to the city water system. During nego-
tiations, an assurance was obtained that the proposed Gwangju Water Supply
Project will be expedited to ensure timely water supply to the Gwangju
industrial estate (Section 4.04 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
selection criteria and pricing policies for the industrial plots were also
agreed during negotiations (Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       Mogpo Water Supply.  The proposed project would add 25,000 mtd capacity
to the city system through construction of a 19 m high rockfill dam to create
a 7.7 million cu m impoundment, a surface water treatment plant, 2 trans-
mission pump stations, 25 km of transmission and distribution lines in
sizes up to 700 mm, and a systematic program to identify and substantially



- 14 -
reduce water losses in the existing system. The project will benefit nearly
all residents of the city through improved water services; domestic supplies
will increase from 52 to 105 lcd. With extension of services to about 2,000
new households, the city system would serve 98% of the population. Technical
assistance is included to assist the City Water Bureaus in the operation and
management of the water system.
45.       Yeosu Water Distribution Project.  The first phase of the Yeosu Water
Supply Project, including transmission, treatment and storage facilities is
currently underway; it will increase the existing system capacity from 16,000
to 46,000 mtd. This will restore satisfactory service conditions and permit
domestic consumption to rise from 50 to 100 lcd. The proposed project will
complement the ongoing works by a selective expansion of the city's distri-
bution system to meet 1985 goals for population served. About 7,000 new
households (35,000 people) will be extended service. The project will also
include a pumping station, storage tank and distribution nucleus on Dolsan
island, an important stimulus to island development. A total of about 14 km
of new pipelines and replacement of about 6 km of existing lines is involved.
46.       Narodo Development.  Narodo, a pair of islands with 16,000 residents,
is located just off the mainland in Southeast JNP. The islands have good
potential for development in tourism and fisheries, but face serious trans-
portation and water supply constraints. The Narodo development subproject is
aimed at improving the water supply and transport linkage to the mainland.
The water supply component consists of rehabilitation of the existing slow
sand filter plant and addition of about thirty 20-m deep drilled wells, well
field collector pipes, a booster station, chlorination and storage facilities.
The project would permit supply of about 70 lcd to 90% of the projected 1985
population as well as meet the needs of the seasonal tourist and fishing
populations. Water losses in the existing piping network will be reduced
through a program of leak repair and installation of meters on service lines
of selected larger customers. The transport component consists of upgrading
the ferry service to Narodo to be able to transport vehicles. The project
will provide four ferry terminals (one on the mainland, two on inner Narodo
and one on outer Narodo) and upgrade about 7 km of road on inner Narodo to a
gravel surface. The ferry service will be operated by a private company.
47.       Dolsan Bridge.  Yeosu is an expanding industrial and commercial
port city with a new fishing port and associated industrial complex; it also
services the nearby Yeochan industrial complex. Yeosu's growth is circums-
cribed by land constraints. Steep topography limits the amount of land
suitable for residential and commercial development.  The availability of
relatively low-cost residential land in the northern part of Dolsan Island
offers an alternative to the considerable densities forecast for Yeosu by
1985.  On the basis of the projected growth in traffic, construction of
a bridge between Yeosu and Dolsan is a better alternative than expansion
of the existing ferry service. The proposed project would provide a steel
girder bridge, 430 m long and 10.6 m wide, to link Dolsan with Yeosu. A
development plan for the Dolsan Island is being prepared. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that Yeosu City will review this plan with the Bank,
prior to its approval (Section 4.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Jindo Bridge.  Jindo Bridge, linking Korea's third largest
island (345 sq km) with the mainland, will stimulate development of the



- 15 -
island's agricultural and tourism potential. In 1975, Jindo had 100,000
residents, 84% employed in agriculture. Major land reclamation projects are
underway. Tourist visits to the island have increased significantly during
the 1970s. During 1970-77 passenger traffic on the ferry service between
Jindo and the mainland grew at an annual average rate of about 2!L% and cargo
traffic at a rate of 37%. The proposed project would replace the ferry
service with a 480 m cable-stayed suspension bridge and 700 m of approach
roads.
49.       Shrimp Storage Facility at Imja Island.  Imja, an island situated
about seven miles off the mainland in northwestern JNP, has a population of
about 1,400 engaged mostly in shrimp fishing and farming. In 1975, JNP
contributed roughly 16% of the national catch of the small shrimp used in the
preparation of the Korean national dish, kimche; 62% of the provincial catch
was landed at Imja. The fishing season for the tiny, but mature, shrimp
extends from April to November, whereas demand is greatest during October to
December when cabbage is available for kimche preparation. The shrimp is
fermented in brine and stored underground or in tunnels at constant tempera-
tures of about 18 c. For lack of storage facilities, the fishermen sell
their catch to brokers at very low prices during the fishing season. The
brokers store the shrimp on the mainland for retail during the winter at much
higher prices. The project's objective is to enhance the incomes of about
600 fishery families by providing a more economical storage facility on the
island and better marketing of their catch. The project will consist of a
series of four tunnels with a storage capacity of 2,550 drums in a hillside
1 km northeast of the island's principal village and landing place. The
facility will be operated and managed by the fishermen's cooperative which
has a suitable vessel for transportation of shrimp to the mainland.
50.       Aquaculture Development.  The proposed project would expand laver
(a specie of edible seaweed) production in JNP to meet domestic demands and
increase the incomes of laver farmers, presently one of the poorest groups in
the rural population. The primary emphasis will be on productivity increases
and quality improvement in laver. The project will consist of a credit
scheme operated by the provincial branch of the National Federation of
Fisheries Cooperatives (NFFC) and a technical assistance program to expand
extension and demonstration services, research and training through the
fisheries promotional offices in the province.
51.       The credit scheme will provide loans to laver farmers to finance
about 10,000 net units for replacement of the existing bamboo units and
expansion of the laver production area and to regional cooperatives for the
establishment of five seed culture facilities, 25 laver processing plants
and a net freezing and cold storage facility to accommodate about 50,000
seeded nets. Administrative arrangements for the aquaculture credit schemes
were agreed upon during negotiations (Annex to Schedule 2 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
52.       Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component of the
project includes funds for: (a) improvement of water supply operations,
especially financial management and maintenance, in JNP's cities; (b) aqua-
culture technical services; (c) a study of development potential of major
islands in JNP; (d) preparation (including feasibility studies and engineering)



- 16 -
of a third regional project in Jeongu region; and (e) development of regional
planning capabilities, including training and fellowships for MOC staff. It
is anticipated that approximately 680 man-months of consultants' time will be
required for this component of the proposed project. It is estimated that
these services will cost an average of $7,000 per man-month.
Project Agencies
53.       The Ministry of Construction (MOC) will be responsible for the
design and construction of all project facilities, which will be turned over
to the operational agencies when completed. MOC's National Physical Planning
Bureau has central responsibility for reviewing project design and execution.
The Gwangju Regional Construction Office (GRCO), located in Gwangju City,
will be directly responsible for supervising the design consultants, evaluating
bids and awarding contracts, and employing consultants to supervise construction.
Two of GRCO's five sections have been working almost exclusively on supervision
of the first regional project and preparation of the proposed project. Civil
works in the first project have generally been well executed, with only minor
delays and cost overruns. Execution of the first project and preparation of
the proposed project have encouraged close collaboration among the National
Physical Planning Bureau, the Provincial Government and the operating agencies,
and fostered a more comprehensive, integrated perspective on regional develop-
ment among them.
54.       The governments of the Cities of Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu will
be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the housing estate,
industrial estate, water supply, and urban transportation subprojects. All
three cities participated in the first regional project.
55.       The shrimp storage and aquaculture subprojects will be managed by the
Office of Fisheries (OOF) and the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). OOF is a branch of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MOAF),
which provides policy guidance on promotional and regulatory matters concerning
fishing, and local and foreign trade and supervises the cooperative movement.
The technical assistance component of the aquaculture project would be
administered by the OOF, through the Fisheries Promotion Offices in Mogpo and
Yeosu. The current staff of 35 extension workers in the offices would be
strengthened and more emphasis placed on laver production in extension
services.
56.       The Korean fisheries cooperative movement is an integrated, national
organization with statutory responsibilities and functions specified in the
Fishery Cooperative Law (1973).  NFFC activities encompass marketing, including
exports, and operation of several coastal and inland fish markets; credit
operations; fishery guidance and extension services; supply, including sales
of tax-free fuel; price support programs; insurance; and medical services.
NFFC credit operations are financed primarily by loans from the Government
and Bank of Korea as well as by member deposits. Its portfolio has been
overextended as annual loan advances have grown from $44 million (for 26,000
loans) to $186 million (for 20,000 loans) during 1973-77. Loan recovery
has been improving; arrears represented 3.5% of loans due for collection in
1977. The current financial position of NFFC is weak; nevertheless NFFC is
considered as the most appropriate agency to handle the credit scheme. A
recent Asian Development Bank Loan (December 1978) is addressing NFFC's
financial and institutional problems. NFFC's liquidity position will be
improved through long-term, low interest loans from the Government. In addi-



- 17 -
tion, consultants will be hired under the ADB loan to review NFFC operations
in order to improve accounting and reporting systems, examine the adequacy of
the interest spreads in its loan operations, and determine a more suitable
capital structure.
Project Costs
57.       The total project cost is estimated at W 75.1 billion ($,154.8
million) of which the foreign exchange component is estimated at 42%.
Project costs were estimated by consultants and Bank staff on the basis of
preliminary engineering designs. Consultants working on detailed design have
verified the cost estimates on the basis of site investigations.
58.       All cost estimates are based on June 1979 prices and include
land acquisition, construction costs including profits and overheads, design
and supervision and physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies
are 15% of construction costs. Price escalation is based on following yearly
rate of increase per year in construction costs: 10% in 1979; 9% in 1980;
and 8% in 1981-83. This is a conservative estimate given the rapid increase
in construction cost during the past two years in Korea, but the Government
is giving high priority to curtailing inflation. The overall price contingency
amounts to about 20%.
Financing Arrangements
59.       The proposed Bank loan of $65 million will finance the project's
foreign exchange requirements. The loan will be made to the Government of
the Republic of Korea (ROK) which will pass the funds on as loans ($46 million)
and grants ($19 million) to the project agencies (i.e. city governments,
cooperatives, and MOC). The sources of counterpart funds would be as follows:
(a)  The Central Government would contribute about 13% of total project
costs (W 9,779 million; $20.1 million) to the project agaencies as
grants for design and supervision and other costs which the agencies
cannot recover;
(b) About W 1,943 million ($4.0 million) will be provided as Central
Government loans through the Korea Development Bank (KD]3) for the
water supply projects;
(c)  About W 1,387 million ($2.9 million) will be provided by the
Central Government as loans to NFFC for aquaculture and shrimp
storage projects;
(d)  The cities of Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu would borrow from the Korea
Housing Bank (KHB) mostly as short term loans, about W 10,143
million ($20.9 million) for the three housing estates. All proceeds
from sale of plots and down payments will be used to repay KHB; and
(e) City governments will contribute W 20,314 million ($41.9 million),
which will come from advance payments for the industrial estates
and from borrowings.
60.       The Borrower will repay the Bank loan over a 17 year period, including
four years of grace, with interest at 7.9% p.a. and will bear the risk of
fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies in which the Bank loan



- 18 -
is made. The Bank loan will be onlent to the project agencies through
Subsidiary Loan Agreements at an interest rate of 7.95% for 17 years,
including 2-3 years of grace.
61.       Loans to project agencies from financial intermediaries will be
made on prevailing terms. The terms of the KDB loans to the Cities of Mogpo
and Yeosu for the water supply component will be 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, with interest at 7.5% p.a. The current terms for KHB loans
for housing estate projects are 20 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 16.5% p.a.  The loan for aquaculture development and shrimp
storage from the Ministry of Finance to the NFFC would be repaid over 10
years, including 2 years of grace, with interest at 8.6% p.a.
62.       The KEB rates are in line with current market rates.  The KDB and
NFFC rates are lower, but special rates are not proposed due to the small
size of the project-related loans in the agencies' overall lending operations.
Partially due to substantial interest spreads, the industrial estates and
shrimp storage subprojects will generate profits to the implementing agencies;
these profits will be earmarked for land acquisition and future development
projects.
Cost Recovery
63.       The general approach to cost recovery proposed for the different
project categories is summarized below:
Subprojects                               Approach
Housing Estates                    Sales prices will cover full land, on-site
development and house costs and an attribu-
table proportion of off-site infrastructure.
Internal cross-subsidization will be used to
lower the price of low-income plots. Low-
income beneficiaries would be required
to make a 30% down payment, and to repay the
balance over 25 years at 16.5% interest p.a.
with the option of an escalating mortgage
plan.
Industrial Estates                Sales prices will cover full land, on-site
development and factory module costs, an
appropriate proportion of off-site infra-
structure and, if market conditions permit,
include a profit margin. Terms for plots
would be a 40% down payment, with the balance
to be repaid over 3 years at 16% interest p.a.
Water Supply Projects              Project costs will be recovered through water
rates and periodic rate increases will
move the Water Bureaus in Mogpo, Yeosu and
Narodo toward financial self-sufficiency.
Shrimp Storage Facility           Full subproject development costs will be treated
as a loan (at 10.5% for 10 years) to the
county cooperative to be repaid from revenues.



- 19 -
Part of the profits will be distributed to
participating members; approximate:Ly 10% of
net annual profits will be retained to
finance other capital projects.
Aquaculture Project               Loans will be made on the same terms as
other NFFC loans (at 10.5% for 4 years to
individuals and 6-10 years to cooperatives)
in this sector. The technical services will
be financed through Government budgetary
allocations.
Bridges and Commercial Road       Costs would be recovered through vehicle user
charges and general revenues.
64.       In recent years revenues from water charges have not been sufficient
to cover operating costs and debt service, and the utilities' accounting
practices are inadequate. Until effective accounting systems can be cons-
tructed as part of the project, including determination and valuation of
assets, assurances were obtained that each Water Bureau will enter into a
suitable cash generation covenant including, inter alia, increasing water
charges by an average of not less than 5% in real terms plus an allowance for
inflation in each year until the financial soundness of each bureau can be
established. In the case of Mogpo Water Supply, the provincial government
has also agreed to rate increases to ensure that en-route towns which purchase
bulk water from the Mogpo system will pay the full cost of delivered water.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (Sections 4.05(a)
and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
65.       Because of the Government's interest in undertaking regional
development projects in other regions, special efforts will be made to
monitor and evaluate the largest and most innovative components of the
proposed project. The monitoring exercise will focus on the housing,
industrial estates and aquaculture credit subprojects. Local university
groups, with some expatriate assistance in formulation of the program, will
be responsible for monitoring of the project. MOC will periodically monitor
the traffic on the two bridges.
Procurement
66.       The civil works will be divided into about 15 contracts.  Most
subprojects will be covered under one contract, except for the housing and
industrial estate subprojects in Mogpo where it would be appropriaLte to have
separate contracts for land filling. The contracts will range in value from
about $0.2-25 million. All contracts for civil works will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding to prequalified contractors in
accordance with Bank guidelines. However, the local construction industry in
Korea is well advanced, and all contracts in this project are expected to go
to Korean firms. Contracts for aquaculture processing facilities will be let
through competitive bidding locally advertised because of the small size of
buildings and their scattered locations. Processing equipment for the



- 20 -
aquaculture program will be procured through the Office of Supply (OSROK).
Technical services for water supply and regional planning will require some
equipment (aggregate $200,000) which will be procured through prudent shopping.
Disbursement
6/.       Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made for 44% of the
cost of civil works, 44% of loans disbursed by NFFC, 100% of the cost of
equipment and overseas training and 60% of expenditures for technical services,
including consultancy services studies. Disbursements for all items would be
made against standard Bank documentation, except for the subloans made by NFFC
which will be supported by a statement of expenditure. It is expected that
Bank disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1983.
Justification
68.       The project's primary justification is its anticipated economic
impact on one of Korea's least developed regions. Project components have
been selected through a sieving process which began with broad regional
planning efforts and concluded with feasibility studies of specific components
identified in the earlier studies. In conjunction with other Bank and
Government-financed projects, the project will help achieve the objectives of
reducing regional income disparities and outmigration from JNP by providing
both rural and urban employment opportunities and by raising infrastructure
and service standards in the region's cities. The approximately 18,000
jobs associated with the industrial estate subproject and the enhancement
of the incomes of about 6,500 households in the fishery sector through the
shrimp storage and aquaculture subprojects will make significant direct
contributions to achieving these objectives, and the transport subprojects
will integrate three large islands more closely with the regional and national
economies. The urban water supply subprojects will help overcome critical
constraints to the expansion of Mogpo and Yeosu, while the housing subprojects
will address shelter needs not currently met by public or private programs.
69.       Separate economic anlayses for various project components, except
technical assistance, were performed. The rates of return were found to be
insensitive to standard conversion factors. No adjustments were considered
necessary for labor wages due to the tight labor market in Korea. Shadow
prices for foreign exchange or labor were, therefore, not employed in the
analyses. All taxes and duties were excluded. The estimated weighted
average economic rate of return for the project is about 23%. In addition to
a number of unquantified benefits for each component, there are interrelation-
ships among groups of components which enhance the benefits associated with
the project as a whole. The most significant interrelationships are between
the water supply and the housing and industrial estate subprojects in Mogpo
and Yeosu because the estates would be dependent on increased water supply.
Further, the full benefits of the Dolsan bridge would not be achieved
without extending water services to the island. Nevertheless, since only a
small portion of benefits from the water supply subprojects will accrue to
these other subprojects, separate rate of return analysis was performed for
each subproject.



- 21 -
Project Risks
70.       The most significant risk affecting all components is that cons-
truction prices may escalate faster than other costs. The housing subprojects
are particularly vulnerable to construction cost increases since the least
expensive units would no longer be affordable by the target group. Although
the demand for serviced industrial land has been assessed careful:Ly, the
industrial estate subprojects may experience marketing difficulties due to
locational factors and the policy of charging prices which fully reflect
development costs. The provision of installment terms for land and factory
purchases is intended to offset this risk. The Gwangju Industrial Estate
will be dependent in the long term on the planned expansion of the city's
water supply system, although other available resources may prove to be
sufficient in the early stages. The main risk in the water supply projects
is that rates may not be increased sufficiently. The full benefits of the
Yeosu-Dolsan Bridge will not be achieved if the urban development of Dolsan
Island is not properly planned and controlled. Construction of the Jindo
Bridge would be premature if the connecting highways are not comp:Leted
as planned. The main risk in the shrimp storage subproject is that many
fishermen may be too bound to middlemen by debt obligations to market their
catch through the cooperative. The aquaculture component is smal:L and novel
for NFFC and will need careful coordination with the Fisheries Promotion
Offices; unless sufficient qualified staff are assigned to it and effective
administrative procedures are worked out, it may not develop as planned.
Measures to reduce these risks have been incorporated in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement follows the pattern of Bank
Agreements for loans of this kind. Special conditions of the Project are
listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments:
August 9, 1979



-22-                                                           Annex I
,        Page  1  of  5
EJARL 3A
KOREA RZPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RZPZRZNCZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO,. gh)                  KOREA REPUBLIC OF               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             98.5                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      22.6                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Ž ESTIMATE Lb        REGION I/c   GROUP Id    GROUP I.
GNU  PER CAPITA (US$)                 120.0       300.0      820.0           450.6      926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      258.0       815.0    1020.0            371.1      73'.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      24.7        31.4      36.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         41.2       49.0            27.4       49.0         51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       49.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         64.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      251.0        319.0     365.0            154.8       44.6         28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0       1371.0    1593.0            566.7      140.7        100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9        41.0      37.0             41.3       41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                         53.8         55.7      60.0             54.9       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3         3.3       3.0              3.3        3.5          5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1,9         2.4       2.0              2.4        2.4          1.7
URBAN                               5.9         6.4       5.4              4.3        4.5          3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0        30.0       21.0            30.2       31.1         27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0        10.0        8.0             8.3        9.2          9.1
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1/f       2.6       1.4              2.1        2.2          1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          42.0      43.9             34.1       34.7.
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           80.8        99.0     117.0            106.2      104.4        102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   85.0        114.0     112.0            104.1      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0        65.0      75.7             57.4       64.4         80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0/j      19.0      16.3             16.9       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0         8.0       5.D              4.8        8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0         59.0      63.0             61.1       60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           62.0         43.0      37.0             46.6       46.7         45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        58.0      62.0             21.9       60.8         69.4
URBAN                                ..        84.0      80.0             46.2       75.7         85.1
RURAL                                ..        38.0      36.0             12.8       40.0         43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         25.0      61.0             28.4       46.0         70. 1
URBAN                               ..         59.0      68.0             65.0       46.0         88.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0             14.7       22.5         33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0       2110.0    1677.0           3790.5     2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3220.0/h    2170.0/h   517.0           1107.4     1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2510.0       1900.0    1430.0            613.3      453.4        197.6
URBAN                                ..          ..     340.0            203.6      253.1        260.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           1110.3     2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        14.9         ..            23.9       22.1         17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.3       5.1              5.2        5.3          4.7
URBAN                               5.4         5.0       4.9               ..        5.2          4.4
RURAL                               5.6         5.5       5.3               ..        5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3         ..              ..         19          1.1
URBAN                               2.8         2.7         ..              ..         1.6         1.2
RURAL                               2.4         2.2         ..              ..         2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.0        49.9                          .        50.0        66.0
URBAN                              67.3        92.4                          .        71 7        85 1
RURAL                              12.0        29.9       64.9              ..        17.3



-23-                                                              Annex I
p  2 Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYEIIAGES
KDREA REPUBLIC OF               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAM4E        SAME     ERXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROlIP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 94.0        105.0      109.0              97.9       102.5        101.7
MALE                   99.0        106.0     109.0              98.7       108.6        110.)
FEMALE                89.0        105.0      109.0              97.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0       63.0              42.2        33.5         51.2
MALE                   38.0         52.0      71.0              46.7        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       54.0              40.9       30.7         43. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.0            16.0       16.0             12.5        11.5         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0          57.0      49.0              32.5        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                           34.0         37.0       38.0              25.8        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          70.6         78.0       91.0             84.1        64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          2.0        2.7               6.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          32.0        126.0      144.0              84.4       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3         13.0       48.0              22.4       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    69.0        138.0     173.0              24.2        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             5.0        2.2              3.6         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0      10200.0   13061.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8         32.7       32.8              36.7        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4          51.0      44.6              54.6        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3         20.1       33.0              16.3        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  33.4         35.0      36.6              40.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                   49.5         46.8       48.8             49.9        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                 17.2         23.0      24.2              31.0        16.8         16.:3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.4        1.1              1.1         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/i          17.1      16.1              14.9        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3/i         44.5       45.3              46.8        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77I           7.1       5.7               6.2         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/i          17.7      16.9              16.8        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      220.0             193.1       270.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..             128.7       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      194.0             136.8       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..              %.8        248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         9.0             32.0        20.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..              52.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
1c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /g  1962;   /h  Registered, not all pract:ising
in the country;   /i  1965.
Maiy, 1979



Anrnex I
-24-                                                                           Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                       Page 3
agjU: Ine adiusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
popolaccd --outry is each group. Coverage of countriea anosg the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group avoeagos for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple populaticn-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ki)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                         urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
cr permanentlv fur crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation renters.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GANP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
c-lculamed by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 dots.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUCMPI10N PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOUSING
Average sloe of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULAIclN AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-yeor (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total po.psa-                      hold vary.
ticn; diffeoent definitions of urban areas may affect oomparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
cf data among countries,                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwollings, raspectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per s_. km.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
cf total ares                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. ion, agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
cnly.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Pepulation age structure (percent) - Children (0-1i years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary inetruction; pro-
and five-y-ear average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reprodctiem rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
sp-cific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ociiog in 1960,                   Vocational enrolloent (Percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clade technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
family plunbing - acceptors, anneal (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planming pragram.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family plannimo - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices ts all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Indea  number of per                   Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes umbulances, hearses and military
PFr capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per das.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities coed in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirenents weor  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished licensing.
.al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and se. distribhtions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of T' sets was in effect.
Pet capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circla-
capita net su?ply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
abhoe.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a  iinum allowance of 6I grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
cf uninal and poise protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
ThCse stansards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FA0 tn rioe Third Wmorld Food Survey.
P-r capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMIPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages '-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thoas-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
sod in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expect accy at birth  (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-pear averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                Female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-sex
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     structure of the pcpulalton, and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependencv ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in rash and kind) received by richest S
sonanble aceas  of that house.  In rural areas reasonable  coceo  would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 perccnt
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water  oeods.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rrurl - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Eicreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal .aY inclode the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
ccrotment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
cr chA  use if pit privies and similar installations.                                    Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
dpullern apr physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
fopulation ser nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
as-sltant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
-25-
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA ShEET
Actual                                                   Pro_jected            Growth rates (in percent)
1965       1970       1972       1973       1974       1975        1976     1977        1980       1985   1965-751975-80  1980-85  1985-90
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at 1975 pri-)
:.  ^5.  6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8   24,097.4  32,031.5  52,575.1   10.7         10.9      10.4      10.6
2.  Gains from TOT                    140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4        348.7          -    1,160.5    2,325.4   3,390.4   6,080.2    . 
3.  Groan domestic income          7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4   26,422.8  35,423.3  58,655.3   10.4                   13.1      10.6      10.7
4.  Imports (goods and NFS)          984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0   12,574.5  18,885.0  37,318.7   22.5                   20.5      14.6      14.6
5.  Eports -oo1e                     388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6   10,226.4  15,362.1  31,693.3   30.7                  22.2      15.6      15.2
6.  Exports (adjusted for TOT)    528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   ,,678.6   9,290.1   12,551.8  18,754.4  37,773.5   26.1                      27.0      15.3      14.7
7. Resource gap (adjusted for
TOT)                           455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0        666.0   2,136.8   .-785.4         389.9        22.7       130.6    -454.8       -          -         -         -
8.  Total consumption              6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4   17,698.7  24,632.6  40,514.2                 8.3       9.9      10.4      10.1
9.  Investment                       917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   ',120.6   5,874.4    7,247.7  10,921.7  17,692.5    18.8                  16.4      10.1      11.9
10.  Do-estic savingo (adjusted
for TOT)                       206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   1,708.1   6,569.9    8,724.2  10,790.7  18,141.2   33.6                  23.8       11.0      12.2
11.  GDP at current US$             2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  1'1,089.2  25,369.5   31,644.7  46,698.7 100,565.7    20.7                 19.6      16.6      16.6
8. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1975 prices)
1. Agriculture, forestry and
fisheries                       46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1        25.3       24.9       23.6        22.2        19.0       13.7
2.  Mining and manufacturing           13.9       20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2       29.2        31.8        32.2       36.8        41.4
3.  Other                             39.8        46.7       47.4       47.8       46.5       45.9        44.5        45.6       44.2        44.9
C. Prices (1975 - 100)
1.  Export price iden /a             57.7        67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9      100.0      111.7        122.3      141.6      176.4
2.  Import price index /0             46.3        46.2       46.8       62.5       97.2       100.0       98.0       100.2      116.0       148.0
3.  Terms of trade indan             124.6       145.9      143.8      136.3      111.0      100.0       114.0       122.1      122.1       119.2
4.  GDP deflator                      43.2        70.6       71.0       76.8       95.7       100.0      115.6       131.3      145.8       191.3
5.  Avorage exchange rote            266.2       310.4      394.0      398.5      406.0      484.0       484.0       484.0      484.0       484.0
D.  Selected Indicators                 1965-75      1975-80      1980-85       E.                                           1960     1970     1975    19 7    1980        1985
1.  ICOR                                 2.39         2.82         3.21        1.   Labor force (million)                    8.9     10.2     12.3    13 4    14.1        16.8
2.  Import elasticity                    2.10         1.88          1.40       2.   Unemployment (2 of E.1)                  7.9      4.9      4.1      3.8      2.1       1.5
3.  Average dom.estic s-vis8s rate    0.15            0.29          0.30       3.   Faploy.ent (million)                     8.2      9.7     11.8    12.9    14.1        16.6
4.  Marginal domestic savings rate   0.29             0.34/b       0.32       (7 shares)                                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10O.0    100.0
5.  Importo/GDP                          0.36         0.52         0.65        3.1  Agriculture, forestry, fihserie-    58.6    50.5    45.9    41.8    39.5              34.1
6.  Investment/GDP                       0.25         0.31         0.33        3.2  Mining end manufacturing                10.4    14.3    19.1    22.4    23.0          25.5
7.  Resource gap/GDY                     0.11         0.02         0.00        3.3  Other                                  31.0    35.2    35.0    35.8         37.5      40.4
F.  Public Finance Ic (% of GDP)          1972         1973          1974         1975          1976         1977/0        1980         1985
1.  Currest revenue                      17.8         16.9         18.3          20.3         22.9          22.7         22.4          23.5
1.1 Tao revenue                          13.5         13.2         15.0          16.8         18.9          18.9         19.2          20.0
2.  Current expenditure                  14.2         11.6          12.4         14.4          14.3         15.7         15.4          15.8
2.1 Defeone apenditores                   4.5          3.7           4.4          4.8           5.7          6.3           7.0          7.4
3.  Goveromeot saving                     3.5          5.3           5.0          5.8          8.5           7.0          7.0           8.7
4.  Capital enpenditore /d               11.3          8.7           8.0          8.3          12.7         10.5         11.0          10.8
/a  Dollar price index.  8efers to merchandise trade only.
/b Refers to period 1976-80.
7c  Refers to the Government Sector, comprising Central Goversoest (including goveroment enterprises), Local Government and Special
/d Refers to total capital enpenditures, less repayment of debts, for 1972-77.
In Budget estimates.
Noveober 10, 1978



AnnexI
-26-                                                                                               Page 5 of 5
6914C1  0F PAYhUNTB  901 101192  A8INTA9C1
IS million  st currnt plose
199      1970    1971   1872    iyj        1979    1975   176    1977m
A.  5-6as    Di of  alineS.of Papy-nl
Eaos    me.bS                                 998   1,221   1,4 79   2,075  3,962   5,125  5 , 679  9,111   12,508  21, 750   55,907   141,361
2.   Imo t, l      nd  91180 2,064  2,490  2, 577  4,368   7, 209  7,464  9,490   12,531 2196                                                      5,3 1212
I.  "I ...r.. balen-                                       -602   4943 -1,:012    -502    -406 -2,084 -1,785    -3692            -23      1L53       664     2, 249
(1)  NSA Insarmet  pmem.nie               a    ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~-29  -91    -138  166    *2 29    -399    -4 lI  -479    -66 5     -8 15      -534
of  h.ih in-re-  en pubLic  ALT loan    '07             -69      -99   -120    -150    -201    -290    -2 4 5       .437     -900  -1,296   -1,475
2  re   ic..nten   Incom                      -6      '9                -2       I       B       '4     -37      '63       '42      -150       -215,
3)Workers           . - ra Io ac . melc ………                                              ……-                                                      
(4)  Other  faceup  srice  .9oe1ot>                               77      94     101       72      74        6     167       35u      400       350        300
5.  Ccr,evo                                                   2In lr    nt)06  180  171  170  190      224     2 6    349        223       250       230        289
0.   Balance oocurnensaucouno               ~~~~~ ~~~~~-549    -623    -846   -371   -309 -2.023 -1,.817    -214    12     -220       299     2,090
Pricate dloect  Iroecteent             16      63      ~~~     ~~~    ~~~~~~~~43  7  137  104 .3  76       90       260       360       505
8.  OIf cu   cptl   rnt0S    131                                               94      87       61      64A       -       -         -         -        -          -
9.  Dtsure"Ic                                                660     414      625     73 5    757   1,155  1,6;.7  1,701    2,216    3,041    3,316          4,209
I:.   oa,rcceacic                                             109     203     213      789     334      391     346 0    504      717    1,322    2,661       3,384
I.   849 d isbur-oant                                         551     209     410      446     423      764  1.3:9  1,197    1,301    1,719           635        405
cLhe- cI LT icon
Il.   Dittupsemence                           ~~~~~~~~~                ~~~ ~~~          ~~17  76  33  49  71  1274  35    120  50  162  390      802
Ii.   3srla  u                                                          8      I        10      15       03       8      66        73        79      272        466
Is.  81disbur---c                                             14       70      23       39      36     151       17      54       -23        94      116        334
is.  cUr ci)MF r--nr-e   b                                      -      1        6      -0        -      132     1La       97      -00       -76         -          -
-t bn-cnnpincI  -n-otocion                            57     122     135      1    982          45     60      357        59     -254         50       130
.1.  Capccuicrensect juneNEl Ic                       -76       71     112     -87    -110      868      Id 1    -49     -270      -350         -          -
:. Ch-nccncoro    ( -Inrease)  Id                         -161     -35       49   -159    -340       -15   -4)3-4,419  -1,356   -1,165  -1,462    -5,904
19.  Fcnrignncanersecc/                                      549      594     535     694   1,034   1,043   1,5'2   2,661    4,306    7,302   15,611    06,961
0.   :;oancuoc -con Cunni coents                                                                                                              1972 - 1973   1974   1975   1976           1877~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~192    173 194   175 196 
Debt end Debt Services
I.Oliclo   gran.                                          2S0      151      84      97       61      64                                 Public debt eutetanding 6                   2,691  5,199  5.962  3,.2 77  6,659   9,472
2.T7ccI pbIc~ 0 4 LT Ien                                  75.3     475     689     813   1,075   1,9 72   1,3:0I5,613    3,463             disbrsd lend of perIod)
(II 1R0                                                 65       40      95       73     150       85     312.5  372        426         Interest on pblicd dm6                      120     150     201      290     389      43 7
Ill   1DA                                                15       13       7      26       20                        -         -        Bapayemnl  or pblic  dmbt                   089     336      391     366      504     717
13)   oter  nuclaee   If                                 25      23       81I     9        46      89      111.5114          133        Total public  debt macice                   409     494      592     659      993   1,154
4)Icnrcec                                              102     161      235     479     583      477     310      917      423         Octm-  dmbt  -arvic   Inetl                  23       33      54      60      103     125
0f 1 olhce-oraly AIlan.edeconeei …                  …        …       …        …        …       …        …-                      Total dmbt serice       tel                 432     317      646     718     996   1,279
/1 Supller                                           374     134      246      94      223     466     212      669    1,067
It    Pice  bntb                                    144      104       13      73     20      737      163   1,446    1,341      B.dno  Orr   aria    2
(I)   Ocodo                                                               19  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 60  68  Public det tmric                      19.7    12.1      16     1.         .       .
(I)   Putlic  Icons  501 It   28        1                       11       79      34                 -       Total dabo etroice                          20.9    13.1    12.6    12.6    10.9    12.2 12
c.Xhe-  M L4T Inan  /I                                    100       26      67       74     213     120      1)9       7        16       TDS + Pireen  Innee. Inc                    20.7    13.1    124   126    11.3    10.7
O.taltniroz Decem.ber 31. 1977                           A-sae  Tmrm  on Pobl11  Debt
danunt   0                             Interes~~~~~~~~~..t u  pioc  year D416D      5.3     5.6      6.3     7.6      B.2     7.3
-ntetni beci(di.b ccree  onl.y)                                                                                                                A-otieatioo .   0 prior pair 806;    12.9    12.4    12.2             9.2    10.9    11.9
I.  R0D                                                                                 1635.1)           (8.91
1.    kn CnnPpIRj 946.2                                                                                   112                              000  e t         toaadinj  6 dlsOura.d        94.7,  1349.8   223.    403.5  659.  3955.
3. Otr   IcueaI  c32.                                                                                     .                                     asbt pubIcdb 003.                                44       56      7.:7     99      9.9
.u.cerune..                                                                          2 ,91I7.7          34.6                                   as     public debt service                1.7     2 .5     3. 3    4.9      5.7     6.7
cI o1h c  c--traly plov-d enoica- 
Ic.   Suplicc                                                                             1,560 .0           19.4                             006 dn:bn enctunadiug  I diebursd             47.1    56.5    78. 3   92.7   102.    111.1:
n.   rcnancooconsoltcoicns  Ii                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~2,5586    30.                                   ae 0 publcdbt 060                         I.       1.8     0.0      1.8     15       13
7.  condo                                                                                   167.1'            2.0                                  at     public dnbc  .orice                 0.1]    0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1
9.Total  publIc IU Orho                                                                6,072.3           to106.
0 - Onc  Mill Irbn                                                                          544.08
ii    Ota   pubIIc  debt  hod.   -,distcr-d)                                         13,483.9-
T2.Tto    LTct (diohrodcdI9,017.1                                                                            -
1 I.  Tn-l hILT dcho  I i-li. -d.cc b--od)                                                14,053.1-
'0   c-  of 'dtoaings" and  repoynen  by p-ehone" (IFS).
no   Inllucu  100  ilIcn  horo-d by 'the~I bonkiu  syste    ic 1974.  hIuce bulk  . of -creonaec    of Ocr-r  and Ocs                   ooup    8
nude  no  ctuln  po jvctinc  7crI96  ud 1990.
Ic   Zncld- ccntueoT9 e,:re   tc    r  nb.c  seporauny.
Ituudet bOllounrol Ao, Eoinbonkc, nfficll enprt, crdits, incldibg U.S. CCC rrditu.
It  T:hr  .ue... r   proc i-~Ican
/. I....t taks urd crier f0 ...n tel i-natticuron
bo--nte IC, 1979



-27-                           ANNEX II
Page 1 oF 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit  Calendar                                                      (less cancellations)
Number    Year         Borrower            Purpose                Bank   TW   IDA  Undisbursed
Thirteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                  586.5         106.8
906       1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                 23.0                     4.9
917      1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                       80.0                     2.9
942       1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production              7.0                     0.7
953      1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                       25.0                     1.6
994      1974   AFDC                   Agriculture                13.0                     1.8
1070       1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities             15.0                     4.6
1096       1975   Republic of Korea   Education III                22.5                     6.8
1101      1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                   100.0                     3.9
1145      1975   KDFC V                 Dev. Fin. Co.              55.0                     0.1
1175      1975   SMIB I                 Dev. Fin. Co.              30.0                     0.1
1193      1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated             15.0                     1.7
Dairy Development
1203      1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III                  90.0                    28.7
1216 &    1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-                  20.0                     0.4
1218-T                                  structure I                       40.0              0.8
1319      1976   ADC                    Irrigation                 29.0                    27.1
1328      1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit           20.0                     6.5
1338      1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.           82.5                     4.5
1364      1977   ADC                    Irrigation                 95.0                    82.7
1401      1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                      67.0                    66.2
1461      1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.           70.0                     8.7
1466      1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery               80.0                    42.7
1474      1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training           23.0                    21.5
1503      1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Irrigation            36.0                    36.0
1507      1978   SMIB II                Dev. Finance Co.           55.0                     6.1
1530      1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II  95.0                         83.0
1542       1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                  120.0                    98.3
1574      1978   KDB III                DFC                       110.0                    79.2
1635      1978   KDFC VII               Dev. Finance Co.          100.0                    83.4
1640      1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV                  143.0                   143.0
1666 /a   1979   Republic of Korea   Chungju Multipurpose    125.0                        125.0
1676      1979   Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology   29.0                         29.0
Total                                                2,361.5  40.0  106.8  1,001.9
of which has been repaid                              93.4    -      1.4
Total now outstanding                                2,268.1  40.0  105.4
Amount sold                    8.5
of which has been repaid   2.9                         5.6    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                     2,262.5  40.0  105.4
Total undisbursed                                    1,001.1   0.8           1,001.9
/a Effective July 11, 1979.



28               ~~~~ANNEX II
-28-                     -M    1
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of June 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business                Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing             -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.         Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                   4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development       -      0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing             -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -      0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.          Synthetic Fibers                6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                           2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development        -      0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.               Paper                           5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                              15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing           17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products                      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                   0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                    -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.          Capital Market                 15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                   Development Financing             -     1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,       Electronic Products
Ltd                                                     -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                   Capital Market                    -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star                                                -     1.5    1.5
Total gross commitment                                99.4   19.3  118.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                47.9    1.8   49.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                     51.5   17.5   69.0
Total undisbursed
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II
-29-                     Page 3 of 12 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation should be completed about mid-1979. The contractor for the last
cereal plant civil works has declared bankrupcy, and completion of the works
has been let to other contractors; thus, there could be some additional
delay. More than two-thirds of the proceeds of the loan have been disbursed
and it is estimated that disbursements could be completed in 1979. It is
planned that all plants will operate on a pilot basis in 1979 and would reach
an average of 75% of capacity in 1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry arid peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, arid also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of June 30, 1979 were about 86% of the loan.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
-30-                         Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm development
and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a year but the
implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be completed ahead
of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and supply 8% more
cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the farmers has
been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture quality and
establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a low-cost
dairy industry in Korea. The expansion of processing facilities is below
the target; however, plans are well underway to complete these during 1979
and it is anticipated that the actual capacity then will be significantly
above the original estimate. KDBC financial condition improved during the
last two years but the net profit for 1978 was less than for 1977. The general
prospects are for a gradually improving trend. As of June 30, 1979, disburse-
ments were over 89% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood, Roads
and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were completed
by the end of 1977. Minor Irrigation will be completed shortly. Upland
reclamation is proceeding more slowly. Project monitoring and reporting
continue to be satisfactory, the Hydrologic Services Study has been completed
and the evaluation study is already producing useful results. As of June
30, 1979, disbursements were 98% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; 29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work has started on the first
of five major civil work contracts. Altogether, the five contracts will
involve construction of 8 large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main



ANNEX II
-31-                        Page 5 of 12 pages
and secondary canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The
project, which will require five years to complete, also involves construction
of 80 km of river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as
well as feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328   Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medium and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lendLing is on
schedule. As of June 30, 1979, disbursements were about 68% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1364   Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 IMillion
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, rezlamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule. As of June 30, 1979
disbursements were about 13% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1503   Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
*            development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to padLdy land.



ANNEX II
-32-                        Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 60 minor irrigation, 8,300 river training
and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone program. The
1978 program for river training, water supply and rural telephones was
completed on schedule. Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceed-
ing satisfactorily and contracts have been awarded for 8 subprojects. The
total area of the revised list of irrigation subprojects exceeds the appraisal
area by over 40%. The Government is reviewing the program and is expected to
recommend that certain sites be deleted in order to maintain the original
ceiling of approximately 9,000 ha. As of June 30, 1979, disbursements were
over 13% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood damage, generate
an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW of
peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of the
project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han River, a power
plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated transmission
facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam;
relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway, protective works in
the reservoir area including the raising of an existing embankment of a
cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation of a resettlement
program for some 9,300 families affected by the project; and consulting
services.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1145    Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The loan covered about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. The proceeds are being used to finance
direct imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component
of domestically-produced capital goods and of civil works. Over 99% of the
loan proceeds have already been disbursed. KDFC's performance in using
the loan has been highly satisfactory.
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are about 99% of the total loan.



ANNEX II
-33-                         Page ,'of 12 pages
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industria:l subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of June 30,
1979, disbursements were over 93% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78. KDFC's
performance has been very satisfactory. As of June 30, 1979, disbursements
were about 87% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million; $141 million above
the appraisal estimate of $255 million. This is due to increases in civil
works as a result of additional piling and land reclamation, expansion of
the heavy machinery, machining shops and training center; addition and
sophistication of equipment to ensure the highest manufacturing standards
to enhance the plants capability to meet Korea's future equipment: require-
ments and devaluation of the US dollar and local inflation. The company
is preparing a detailed financing plan to cover the cost overrun which
will be submitted to the Bank for review shortly. Project implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily in accordance with the revised implementation
schedule and the completion date is still scheduled for April 1980. As of
June 30, 1979, disbursements were about 45% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A portion of the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist
small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross
capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of June 30, 1979, disbursements
were over 90% of the loan amount.



ANNEX II
-34-                         Page 8 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Overall progress
is satisfactory. As of June 30, 1979, disbursements were 28% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979 Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at
a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order
to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available
to the Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company
affiliated to KDFC, by way of subloans. As of June 30, 1979, about 17% of
the loan had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is intended to stimulate and support the development of
technological capabilities in the Korean electronics industry. The project
consists of: (a) Development of the Korean Institute of Electronics Technology
(KIET) comprising (i) physical facilities including a semi-conductor building,
other buildings, support facilities and equipment, and (ii) technology-related
items including training, expert invitation, and the purchase of technology;
(b) Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) Program designed to promote
and finance research carried out at KIET for the benefit of the Korean elec-
tronics industry.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related works.



ANNEX Il
-35-                          Page 9 of 12 pages
Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed
by the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way.
The project is expected to be completed in about June 1979, six months before
the present Closing Date, which has been extended by one year to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of the proceeds after project completion.
As of June 30, 1979, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached over 79% of the total loan amount, which is expected to be fully
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedulie compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory. Training operations have commenced in five VTIs.
Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980 for
both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected
to be below, but close to the appraisal estimates. As of June 30, 1979,
disbursements were 69% of the total loan and were close to the original
forecasts.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational Training
Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a Central Vocational Training Institute (CVTI)
and technical assistance, part of which is being provided by UNDP and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The implementation schedule has been revised.
The construction of dormitories are postponed to 1979 and construction of two
VTIs planned in 1979 is being postponed to 1980, because the present budget
has been affected by recent price increases in wages and materials. The
Government's attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary
provisions. Civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978, approximately
six months behind schedule. Equipment procurement has commenced for six VTIs
and the CVTI with about $5.0 million purchased. Disbursements, as of
June 30, 1979, were about 6% of the loan amount and should improve signifi-
cantly. Technical Assistance from UNDP and Germany is satisfactory. Initial
experience with in-plant training schemes in Korea indicates lack of interest
from industry. The Government's Vocational Training Bureau (VTB) is exploring
ways to improve the system.



ANNEX II
-36-                         Page 10 of 12 pages
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953      Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supplv and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by about a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects on hotel development. The first two hotels with
600 rooms are under construction and are scheduled to commence operations.
Negotiations with other private investors are under way for a third hotel and
also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. About 94% of
the loan had been disbursed as of June 30, 1979.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads and a city
market have been completed. The Fisheries port complex at Yeosu has been
completed except for the refrigeration equipment which is being installed.
Construction of houses in the housing estates is nearly completed; a substan-
tial portion of sites have been occupied. Overall completion of works is
99%. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions of effective-
ness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the project has
moved extremely well.  As of June 30, 1979, disbursement was 69% of the loan
amount.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are practically completed. Final estimated cost is $143 million
including $101 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign exchange require-



ANNEX II
-37-                          Page 11 of 12 pages
ment over the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided by a
Saudi Fund for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Government; this
loan was based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115 million
arrived at following the first large increase in the price of petroleum
products. The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional civil
works. Progress on the project is generally satisfactory.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. About 96% of the loan proceeds have already been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways
totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and
(c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and
provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All contracts for
construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasibility studies by
consultants started in January 1978, and are now proceeding satisfactorily.
As of June 30, 1979, disbursements were about 68% of the total loan. The
Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35 million to assist in
financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project with ancilliary works;



ANNEX II
-38-                         Page 12 of 12 pages
rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and (d) Technical Assistance
and Training. The first contract has just been let following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Costs have increased to
$158 million ($96 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of
$112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting
from January 1, 1982. Traffic and specially containerized general cargo
traffic continues to increase at Busan.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment items
for 1980 and 1981. As of June 30, 1979, disbursements were 18% of the total
loan.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national roads
totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including paving and
supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads totaling about
280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance equipment for maintaining
national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the institutions involved in
the planning, design, maintenance, construction, administration and financing
of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the preparation of a program for
improving the organization and functions of such institutions, upgrading
provincial and gun road maintenance and the future development of the gun
road system, to be followed by detailed engineering of about 2,000 km
of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships for training staff of the
Ministry of Construction. Construction of one road was started in April
1979, and bids on the remaining roads are scheduled for August 1979. A
contract for the study is being negotiated.



-39-
ANNEX III
KOREA
SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: The project was prepared during
1977-79 with financing under Loan
1070-KO, Secondary Cities Regional
Project.
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Ministry of Construction (MOC)
with the assistance of consultants
and Bank missions.
(c) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: November 1977.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: October 1978.
(e) Negotiations completed: July 2, 1979.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1979.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific action is considered necessary.
Section III - Special Conditions: The following special conditions are
incorporated in the Loan Agreement:
(a) Criteria and administrative arrangements for the allocation of
housing plots was agreed during negotiations (para. 42).
(b) an assurance has been obtained that the Gwangju Water Supply Project
will be expedited to ensure timely water supply to the Giwangju
industrial estate (para. 43).
(c) an assurance has been obtained that the urban development plan being
prepared for Dolsan Island will be reviewed by the Bank prior to
its approval (para. 47).
(d) administrative arrangements for the aquaculture credit schemes
were agreed upon during negotiations (para. 51).
(e) an assurance has been obtained that Mogpo and Yeosu cities will
gradually increase average water rates till the water system
becomes financially viable and the Provincial Government will
increase the wholesale water rate for the small towns served by the
Mogpo system, such that these communities pay the full cost of
water delivered to them (para. 64).






..R 1- 16>EA                                                                                      m     .      127'KOE                                                                                      12R(00'
NORTH KO?REA -,/\ao ,                                               f/<J                          NoDrse/eon/l27ooot                   SECOND GWANGJU REGIONAL PROJECT
......    CO             -h-oAe-f                                                                                                                        Location of Project Components
,,-. EOUL-1 GANGWEON              .   ''. "             
~~~~  EOUL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GANGWEO                                                                                 U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Housing Project Sites
st   t<ChQn91~~~~~~~~~ 0   ?          N       4    R     y      B   U   G        D   O                                    sndustrrolProlectSites~~~~~~~Inlusr,l Pojet Ste
COUN                                                                                                                                       0        Salted Shrimp Storage Project
NAM~ ~~YE-                                                                                                                                             Wte,J          ~RB U          Soupplyo Pro Iect SiTras mso  Line Included)
'B.U"""G<\7  }' \ -s-M\_Vx  S  j   /                          / tv                                                                      Bridge Construchon
-'"2 E   Y N S .  t.                                                               -  j  t   Y  Ho Noa  Expresswaoy
LON (Ic-?T~ I                                                                                                                             ________   PrimPary Roads
s         .uo  _A,YEONG NAM
.AREA PP                                                                                                                                                              Seco     y Roads
South SooI                                                                                      chn
.           -                                                                                                                       Gogse                                     GYEONG                     SANGDong n  GWANGJU  .   t
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                                             Amg 
v S   8;;      ,/,             C0  .d               m  ,             ,)                  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NA ,,                 D
Is                                             DarHe  II' TNI NSAAL ESTATE
Hamport _
&                               ongsTnl Boseo nn
s~~~~~~~~~                   E v      N          Rs  A          N a     0 2       0        4           0            Wrde)ttrfsfyee n 
j 30'        t26§00'                                         126o30'                _                         127°00'                              _    __    127-30'                  frap_ofsachhoundarles.eI
Lh~~~~~mhogYt
Thin mop~ hen bee. Prep.redhby the
Workd Benko staff euoloon'y tor
0  10           20               30              the nonoen,enoe of~~~~th.    th.e redern of
MILES2 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _a__ _ _ _   _                (he   report to    edtich   it;in attached
MILES                                                 Th. denmiesti-   ~      -d the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tedeonnein oe  ndtr
So  e~~'tb  $  e  a       ~       KiLOMETERS,o                                                                   d    mp onemt
/odg-et -n the laIeglartet  of
126e00                             ~~~~~~~~~~~126-30'                               127'O0                                           127-30'                 eey aconeofuryorohyawdorea



