Report No. 584a-GUA                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project
in Guyana
April 3, 1975
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Documnent of the International Bank for Reconstruction ancd Development
International Development Association
This report wvas prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. it may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



1/
Currency Equivalents
(as of March 24, 1975)
US$1.00          G$ 2.16
G$ 1.00    =   US$ 0.46
1/ G$ floating with British pound sterling since July 1972
Measures
1 m2                10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2       =        0.38 sq. mi.
1 ha                 2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1    -    December 31



GUYANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ........................  i - v
I.   INTRODUCTION  ...................................    1
II.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMENT POLICIES   2
The Land, the People and the Economy             2
The Development Strategy.                        2
The Need for Human Resource Development          3
III.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR: NEEDS AND STRATEGY               4
The Formal Education System.                     4
Primary and Secondary Education.                 4
Teacher Training.                                5
Vocational and Technical Education .6
Agricultural Education.                          6
Non-formal Education and Training.               7
Education Development Strategy.                  7
IV.   EDUCATION FINANCE  ..............................  10
V.  THE PROJECT  ....................................  i1
Project  Strategy  .... ......................  11
Project Content  .......... .................  12
Elements of the Project  ......    .............  12
Cost of the Project  ........ ...............  17
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT  .....    ...........  19
Project Administration  .....     ...............  19
Sites .  ........... 20
Procurement ...............................  20
Disbursements  .......     ......................  21
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .... .....  21



Table of Contents (Continued)
A.NNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Public Education:  Structure, Enrollment and Teachers, 1973
3.   Enrollments in the Secondary Education System, 1968-1988
4.   Demand and Supply of Secondary School Teachers, 1973-1988
5.   Current Education Expenditure of the Central Government,
1969, 1974 and 1981
6.   Capital Education Expenditure of the Ministry of Education, 1969-1974
7.  Technical Assistance of the Project
8.   Summary of Project Cost Estimates
9.   Contingency Allowances
10.  Unit Capital Costs of Project Institutions
11. Project Implementation Schedule
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHART S
I    Structure of the Educational System, 1974
II   Full-time Enrollments and Population Pyramid, 1973
MAP
Republic of Guyana



GUYANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Bank Group's second education project in
Guyana, for which a loan/credit of US$12 million is proposed (US$8.0 million
would be a Bank loan, and US$4.0 million an IDA credit). The project would
support the priority areas of the Government's education development strategy
and aims at: (i) improving the relevance of the education system to the needs
of the economy and the local communities; (ii) meeting specific manpower
requirements in priority sectors of the economy, particularly in the agricul-
tural sector; and (iii) increasing the productivity of the work force and
developing greater self-reliance among workers. These objectives are in
conformity with the development objectives in the productive sectors of the
economy and would respond to their urgent needs.
ii.       These development objectives, require that the Government take
appropriate action now to alleviate the shortage of qualified manpower in
almost all fields. Although Guyana has a fairly literate work force, its
educational attainment level drops off sharply after primary education.
Those who have successfully completed secondary education account for only
14% of the working population and those who have continued beyond secondary
education constitute less than 2%. A more serious problem is the shortcomings
of the traditional education system itself: while its coverage of the school-
age population has been extensive, the curriculum has been too academic and
has not provided new entrants to the labor force with the basis for rapid
skill training and relevant attitudes that are the most needed by the economy.
Nor have there been adequate provisions for technical and agricultural training.
Non-formal educational opportunities are minimal. Consequently, the nature
of unemployment in Guyana has been, to a large extent, structural. WIhile
the economy has suffered from a high rate of unemployment, many positions
have been left vacant or are occupied by unqualified workers. This phenomenon
is more serious in the public sector, particularly the agricultural sector.
iii.      The proposed project would help the Government to resolve some of
these problems. This would be the Bank Group's second lending operation
for education in Guyana. The first Bank/IDA education project (Loan 583/
Credit 139-GUA, signed in 1969, for US$5.8 million) supported the Government's
efforts to improve the relevance of formal education for selected secondary-
level students and to meet the need for primary school teachers by financing
six multilateral secondary schools with a total of 5,500 student places and
a primary teachers' training college. Construction of these schools is
expected to be completed by end of May 1975. The proposed second project would
assist in improving secondary education and strengthening agricultural edu-
cation and training by enabling the Government to: (a) initiate a pilot
program of new community secondary schools that would offer the majority of



- ii -
primary school graduates a more meaningful and employment-oriented program;
(b) extend the diversified curriculum, introduced in the multilateral secondary
schools under the first Bank/IDA project, to existing secondary schools;
(c) provide facilities for secondary teacher training to include construction
of a new college; and (d) expand both formal and non-formal training oppor-
tunities for farmers, rural residents, extension workers, animal health
technicians and other types of agricultural technicians. The project would
also complement the activities of other multilateral and bilateral aid agencies..
iv.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  Construction, furniture and equipment for:
(1) Improvement of secondary education
- 7 new community secondary schools
- extensions to 10 existing secondary schools
- construction of a new Secondary Teachers' Training
College
(2) Vocational and agricultural training
-  extension of an existing agricultural school
-  a new Agricultural Extension In-Service Training and
Communications Center
-  6 new rural training centers
- a new Caribbean Animal Health Technicians' Training
Center
(b) Provision of technical assistance, comprising 7 man-years of
specialist services and 57 man-years of fellowships to support
implementation and operation of the above listed project items.
(c) A study to assess the effectiveness of the vocational and
technical education/training system in meeting rhe country's
socio-economic objectives and to establish priorities for
long-term investment in education and training.
The project institutions would provide a total of 7,036 student pl4ces.
v.        The project would provide for establishment of seven community
secondary schools, with a total of 4,500 student places, to help provide
more meaningful education for the majority of primary school graduates who
fail the highly competitive entrance examination for the traditional
secondary schools and remain in the "tops" (grades 7-9)-of primary schools.



- iii -
As these students presently receive little than extended primary education
and terminate their formal education without proper preparation for further
trailing or employment, the community schools would offer during the first
three years a balanced general education and during the next year (or less)
short-term vocational training courses based on the occupational needs of
each community. Access to the selective education system would still be
available for late developers. After school hours, the community schools
would also fulfL 1l the training needs of adults and out-of-school youths,
thus serving as a focal point for non-formal education in each community.
The new schools would also benefit about 50 overcrowded feeder primary schools
by increasing the space available for pupils in lower grades. Seven of the
12 education districts would each have a community secondary school. As the
community secondary schools are forerunners of the education reform effort,
the Government would establish evaluation procedures and a tracer system to
follow up on the progress of students, both while in school and after grad-
uation. The schools would be staffed by qualified teachers trained at the
Secondary Teachers' Training College, now temporarily housed and to be
constructed under the project.
vi.        To 7u ,port the Government's continuing effort to extend the intro-
duction of ^e diversified multilateral school curriculum, the project would
provide  _Ectical-subiect teachin  facilities,comprising 19 workshops, 19
laboratori1s and 19 homecraft rooms in ten existing secondary schools.  These
facilitieLs would also allow an increase of about 1,680 in enrollments and
would serve a total of 6,630 students. This project item, together with the
first Bank/IDA project, would enable half of all secondary students to study
under the reform curriculum by 1980.
vii.       To meet the rapidly growing demand for qualified secondary school
teachers created by the expansion and diversification of secondary education,
the project would provide for constructiLon of a new Secondary Teachers'
Training College, with the capacity to prcduce 150 trained teachers annually.
To ensure an adequate supply of practical-subject teachers, the college would
develop a cooperative program with existing teaching institutions in the agri-
cultural, technical and home economics fields. In addition, the college would
provide systematic in-service training to upgrade the quality of existing
secondary school teachers.
viii.      To fill the gap in the country's supply of agricultural technicians
and teachers and to train them by offering a larger applied and practical
course contents th,e rro,ect would provide for extension of the Guyana School
of Agriculture, the countrv-'s only agricultural education institution at the
post-secondary level., T;his extension would enable the school to almost double
its student p'laces, from 123 to 216, and to offer its facilities for use by
the proposed Caribbean regional center for the training of animal health
technicians and by the adjoining Agricultural ExtensJon In-Service Training
Center, both of which would be supported under the project.  About 105 tech-
nicians would graduate annually from this school, about half of whom could
be absorbed by the extension service and the rest by other governmental
agencies and the private sector.



- iv -
ix.       To initiate a systematic program for in-service training of exten-
sion and other agricultural personnel, the project would provide for the
establishment of an Agricultural Extension In-Service Training and Communica-
tions Center within the Ministry of Agriculture. Provided with 26 boarding
places, a lecture room and demonstration farms, the Center would train annual-
ly about 400 oLficers in short courses of one or two weeks' duration. The
courses would place emphasis on the extension techniques and advanced agri-
cultural technology required for implementing the Government's strategy to
diversify and specialize agricultural production.
x.        To help increase agricultural productivity and improve rural living
conditions, the project would provide for the construction and equipping of
six rural training centers. These centers would offer a variety of short
courses (1-2 weeks) in such fields as commercial farming, organization of
cooperatives, rural construction, nutrition, home economics and child care
for both practicing and prospective farmers and for rural women. In addition,
the centers would serve senior students of the School of Agriculture for e
their field training and would become focal points for meetings and exchange
of information on all aspects of development activity in the region. Two of
the centers would have additional equipment for clearing and cultivating
forests to help farmers open up new arable land. The centers would be
located near the areas where large agricultural projects are being developed.
Each center would have, besides boarding facilities and a classroom for 36
trainees, a demonstration farm and either a workshop or home economics labo-
ratory, and would serve about 8,100 rural people per year. The District
Extension Office would operate the centers.
xi.       To support the expanding livestock industry as part of economic
diversification and to overcome the acute shortage of qualified veterinarians
in the Caribbean countries in the most efficient way, the project would pro-
vide for establishment of a Caribbean Animal Health Technicians' Training
Center, staffed by qualified veterinarians in the region. By virtue of its
regional nature, the Center would take advantage of economies of scale in
meeting the regional requirements for veterinarians. By training technicians
instead of qualified veterinarians, the Center would meet the requirements
for veterinarian services at a lower cost while enabling each country to
more effectively utilize the limited number of qualified veterinarians. The
Center would be located adjacent to the Guyana School of Agriculture in order
to benefit from the latter's basic science courses and the existing amenities
such as the library and food service.  While only the Government of Guyana,
as the major beneficiary of the Center, would be responsible for financing its
physical facilities, the other participating CAribbean countries have agreed
to share the operating costs.
xii.      To help implement the above-described project components, the
project would include 7 man-years of specialist services and 57 man-years
of fellowships for training abroad. The specialists would assist the Govern-
ment in (i) drawing up a new education law and programming educational
reform measures; (ii) developing curricula for the technical and agricultural



- v -
institutes and strengthening their liaison with employers; and (iii) operating
the rural training centers and the Agricultural Extension In-Service Training
and Communications Center. The fellowships would upgrade the quality of super-
visory and training staff for practical subjects in the project institutions.
xiii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$18.9 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$9.4 million, or 50% of the total cost. The
proposed loan/credit of US$12 million would be equivalent to 64% of the
total cost and would cover the foreign exchange component and 27% (US$2.6
million) of the local currency costs. Prices as of December 1974 were used to
estimate the base costs, to which a contingency allowance of 48% has been
added.
xiv.      The Project Unit responsible for implementing the first education
project would continue to serve as the implementing agency for the proposed
second project. Other Government agencies involved in the project, i.e.,
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Guyana School of Agriculture, would
designate senior officers who would be responsible for maintaining liaison
with the Project Unit. The Unit would be strengthened to deal with the more
diversified project.
xv.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA. Since most of the civil works are of small size,
scattered throughout the coLntry, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested; but they would nct be precluded from bidding. Contracts for pro-
curement of furniture and equioment would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding ii accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. However,
furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$5,000
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with Borrower's reg-ilar procurement procedures; this would not,
in aggregate, exceed US$215,000 ecuivalent or 10% of the total cost of furni-
ture and equipment. Since Guyana is a member of the Caribbean Common Market
(CARICOM), domestic and other member countries' manufacturers would receive a
preferential margin in bid evaluation in accordance with Bank/IDA procedures.
xvi.      The proposed loan/credit would be disbursed over a four-year period.'
A small amount of up to US$300,000 would be disbursed retroactively to cover
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1974 for professional services, technical
assistance and project administrat-on required to impletent the project.
xvii.     The project constitutes a suitable basis for blend financing consist-
ing of an IDA credit of US$4 million equivalent on standard terms and a Bank
loan of US$8 million to the Government of Guyana with a repayment period of
30 years, including a 10-year grace period.






GUYANA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project, estimated to cost US$18.9 million, is designed
to support the priority areas of Guyana's education development strategy. The
proposed loan/credit of US$12 million (US$8.0 million would be a Bank loan,
and US$4.0 million an IDA credit) would cover the foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$9.4 million, and part-of the local currency costs.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's second lending operation for edu-
cation in Guyana. In 1969, the Bank Group lent the Government US$5.8 million
(Loan 583/Credit 139-GUA) for the expansion and reorientation of secondary
education and primary school teacher training. After some initial delays
in appointing consultant architects and in awarding civil works contracts,
the project is now being implemented satisfactorily and is expected to be
completed by end of May 1975. The new teacher training college was occupied
early 1974, and one multilateral school in September 1974. Two more multi-
lateral schools are to be completed by end of 1974.
1.03      The possibility of further Bank Group assistance to education
was discussed with Government authorities in September 1973. The discussion
was based on the UNESCO project identification mission report of January
1973. In February 1974, the Government submitted a formal request for Bank
Gr-oup financing, together with a Ten-Year Plan for secondary education devel-
opment. The project was prepared in May 1974 by the Government with UNESCO's
assistance, and was appraised in May/June 1974 by a Bank mission composed of
Messrs. K.W. Lee (economist), E.M. Vergara (architect), B.S. Braithwaite
(general educator, consultant), G.F. Gayle (agricultural educator, consultant),
and J.S. McNown (technical educator, consultant).
1.04      During appraisal the project was modified to keep its size within
the manageable limits of the Government's financial and administrative capa-
city and to gain experience from some pilot project items. These modifi-
cations include the deletion of: (a) three proposed community secondary
schools and extensions to three secondary schools; (b) the proposed replace-
ment of the Georgetown Technical Institute; and (c) the proposed Caribbean
Para-Medical Training Center, since the Government had requested financing
from another external agency (CIDA). However, one more rural training center
was added in an area where major agricultural projects are being developed.



-2-
II. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND AND DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
The Land, the People and the Economy
2.01      Although Guyana occupies more than 80% of the Caribbean land, much
of the country's interior is unexploited.  About 90% of its population
(754,000 in 1974) is concentrated along a narrow coastal strip which consti-
tutes only 4% of the total area. The population growth rate, net of migration,
in the last decade was moderate at 2.3% p.a., but the age group with the
largest growth was the 0-14 group, accounting for half of the total population
growth. Hence, it is expected that in this decade the secondary school-age
population and new entrants to the labor force will increase considerably.
This has significant implications for both employment and educational oppor-
tunities: the economy will have to generate more employment opportunities
to keep pace with the rapidly increasing labor force, and the education system
will have to serve more people and improve its relevance to the needs of the
economy.
2.02      Despite the modern mining sector and relatively efficient sugar
industry, economic growth in Guyana has been uneven. While during the period
1965-70 the real growth rate of the economy was about 4% p.a., in the last
three or four years it has barely kept pace with the population increase.
The agriculture sector's performance has been particularly weak, with the
sector's importance declining from 26% of GDP in 1960 to 20% at present; so
far, no integrated effort has been made to improve productivity in the sector.
The manufacturing sector is still relatively unimportant, accounting for only
12% of GDP and 15% of the labor force. The two major sources of growth, the
capital-intensive mining sector and the sugar industry, have substantially
contributed to the balance of payments and to economic growth, but have not
provided a corresponding increase in employment. As a consequence, the economy
has not been able to absorb the growing labor force, and unemployment has remained
at about 15%.
The Development Strate
2.03      The Government's development strategy, defined in the Second Develop-
ment Plan (1972-76), focuses on the directly productive sectors of the economy
and diversification of the economic structure to achieve thie goal of self-
reliance in feeding, housing and clothing the nation. In addition to revital-
izing the traditional agricultural sector, the Government is paying particular
attention to the development of non-traditional agriculture, forestry and
fishing. The Government also proposed to double the manufacturing output
and create about 5,400 new jobs during the Plan period by intensifying its
effort to develop both resource-based and assembly-type industries. It is
implementing these strategies by adopting a cooperative form of economic
organization and active participation of the public sector.
2.04      In agriculture, public policies will continue to emphasize bringing
new areas along the coastal belt under cultivation and using land more inten-
sively to lessen unemployment and rural poverty. This policy will require



that the agricultural extension services more effectively encourage farmers
to adopt techniques which are more labor intensive and produce greater yields.
In recent years the Government has launched an effort to increase food pro-
duction and exports by developing large tracts of virgin forest and arable
land in the interior. Because of the completely different ecology and rela-
tively high initial capital requirements, this line of development requires
extensive technical services and training as well as experimentation and
research.
The Need for Human Resource Develowment
2.05      Implementation of these development strategies requires that the
Government take appropriate action now to alleviate the shortage of qualified
manpower in almost all fields. Although Guyana has a fairly literate work
force, its educational attainment level drops off sharply after primary
education. Those who have successfu'lly completed secondary education account
for only 14% of the working population and those who have continued beyond
secondary education constitute less than 2%. A more serious problem stems from
the shortcomings of the traditional education system itself. While its cover-
age of the school-age population has been extensive, its curriculum, parti-
cularly at the secondary level, has until recently been too academic and has
not provided new entrants to the labor force with the basis for rapid skill
training and attitudes that are most needed in the economy. Nor have there
been adequate provisions for technical and agricultural training.  Non-formal
educational opportunities have been minimal. As a result, the nature of
unemployment in Guyana has been, to a large extent, structural. While the
economy has been suffering from a high rate of unemployment, many positions
have been left vacant or are occupied by unqualified workers. In the public
sector alone, about 14% of the authorized positions remain vacant. The fact
that the Government sector accounts for 22% of total employment provides
strong grounds for believing that this skill shortage probably prevails in
every field.  But this phenomenon is more serious in the publlc sector,
particularly in the administration of agriculture. A recent Government
study financed by USAID iudicates that in order to fill the existing manpower
gap and meet the growing demand annually, about 65 agricultural officers and
assistants must be appointed and about 400 already in service be upgraded
over the next five years.
2.06      This problem of skili shortages has been accentuated by heavy out-
migration, which has been heavily concentrated among the young and best-
trained individuals such as professionals and technicians. At the profes-
sional level alone, about 7%. left the country in 1970. Thus, imbalances
have developed in the occupational structure and this in turn has impeded
the expansion of employment. To meet the problem, the Government has
decided on the one hand to launch a program for attracting qualified Guyanese
from abroad, and on the other hand to expand both formal and non-formal voca-
tional training,. Because of the seriousness of the situation, however, the
Government should undertake a study that would assess the effectiveness of
the education and training programs in meeting the country's manpower require-
ments, determine the social rates of return on its investment in these pro-
grams, IdentIfy long-term investment priorities, and propose whatever measures
may be deemed necessary to remedy the situation (paras. 3.C9, 3.20 and 5.22).



- 4 -
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR: NEEDS AND STRATEGY
The Formal Education System
3.01      The formal education system (Chart I) comprises:  (a) six years of
primary education, extended for three more years ("tops" of primary) in most
of the schools; (b) five years of secondary education; and (c) two to five
years of post-secondary or higher level education.  Admission to secondary
education is by competitive examination. The Ministry of Education has the
major responsibility for formulating policy and administering all formal
public educational institutions except the two autonomous institutions, the
University of Guyana and the Guyana School of Agriculture. The education
laws, which date from 1940, have become obsolete. Guidelines and regulations
for the conduct of schools and teachers are lacking. Most of the non-formal
education and training activities are under the control of other ministries.
Primary and Secondary Education
3.02      Basic data (as of 1973) on primary and public secondary schools
are shown below. The enrollment figures include over-age pupils. Of 390
primary schools, 227 are owned by denominational organizations, but the
Government finances their full operating costs. Private secondary education,
much of it owned by religious organizations, is totally uncontrolled by the
Government, and the Ministry of Education has no accurate data even on the
number of private schools and their enrollments.
% of     Pupil/
Age                Enrollment  Teaching  Qualified   Teacher
Group  Enrollment      Rate       Staff      Staff      Ratio
Primary
(Grades 1-6)      6-11   131,580          92        3,979       42         33:1
"Tops" of Primary
(Grades 7-9)      12-14    38,359         61        1,804       44         21:1
Secondary
(Grades 7-11)    12-16    24,237          24        1,020       62         24:1
3.03      Since 1963 the Government has undertaken a series of educational
reform measures, with the objective of providing all Guyanese with an equal
opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for their individual
progress and for the country s economic development. To achieve this objective,
the Government has directed its efforts mainly toward meeting the urgent need
for places for the rapidly increasing school-age population, particularly at
the secondary level. As a result, virtually all primary school-age children
are enrolled and about 53% of the population between ages 12 and 18 receive
some form of secondary education including the primary "tops"--a high percent-
age when compared with that in other countries (Annex 1).



-- 5 -
3.04      This increase in e;arollmenits, however, was undertaken without com-
prehensive programmat.%     Consequently , adequate attention could not be given
to improving the qualizy of education. staffing the schools appropriately,
and pzoviding   :ncr :ly tq'i 7ed placess  Due in part to the lack of facil-
ities and in part to Guyania's tradition of elitist education, only about 10%
of the primary 6&uool graduates pass the examination for entrance to the
traditional secondraoiry schools (grades 7-11), which provide only academic
courses and are hghetr ecation-oriented.  The 90% who fail the examination
remain in the `tor&" (grades 7-9) of tL. primary schools.  There they often
have to share overcrcw6cd classrooims with younger children and have less
qualified teachers and nueoln wtorse equippment than the students in the regular
secondary schOols.  Aithough they are cnsidered part of the secondary edu-
cation systeme, the scude- ts ifl the "tops` program receive only remedial or
extended priraarv eca .tdo fon, whicAh does little to prepare them for further
study or employMent,
3.05      Of the 3a9  primary schools in Gvyania, 373 st-ill have the "tops"'
program and well over half of the teachers are inadequately trained by
Government standaki,_  Tsesp:l Le tlie              (Pa rations (?relimiinary Certificate
and College of ½eceptors Examinations) to transfer students to the regular
secondary schne,s, about 75% (38,400) of those ini grades 7-9 remain in the
"tops" of pr'.mary schools because of the limited number of places (12,800)
in the secoridary schools.  The fact that the "tops" courses are geared to
these externral examinations hampers the intrfduction of a coherent program
with clearly defiined cb, ectives that serve the students; socio-economic
needs.  It is highly important to have sach a program:  the students attend-
ing the "tops" -ourses come mostly froTm aMr.-erprlvileged families; they failed
to gain entry into goverment secondary schools and cannot afford the fees
in non-governmental schools, hence their formal education is terminated at
this level.
Teacher _rainLng.
3.06      Primary teachberk training consists of a post-secondary course of
two years' duration, proT6ded in a newly comnleteo bui-lding finarnced under
the first Bank/IDA education project, Although the college will double its
annual output to 33() teache-,. lt wll not be able to satisfy the demand for
primary teachers  ur.LeEs      Governmeent ILncreases the supply of trained sec-
ondary school teachers.
3.07      Traied primaLy iweacliers are beLng fLrain?d into the expanding
secondary edutcation system, whiclh has a serious shlortage of trained teachers.
The annual output of about ^S teachers from, the Secondary Teachers' Training
College far frem satisfiesL t1he requirements, armounting to about 150 teachers
per year (Annex 4) . A -major constraint to training an adeouate number of
secondary teacHers is zhe lakk of proper facilitles,  The college is tempo-
rarily housed in ani c1d building whichA is uneconomical and unsuitable for expan-
sion or remodeling, There is no institution that provides systematic training
for the teaching of practicanl su4ects such as science, agriculture, industrial
arts and home ecoio-mics.  An obstacle to imprcving the quality oL secondary
education is the high proport-lon of untrained teaching staff.



-6-
Vocational and Technical Education
3.08      Although there are several formal vocational and technical training
institutions in Guyana, the Georgetown Technical Institute (GTI) dominates
the training of technicians and craftsmen. It produces 85% of the technicians
who receive diplomas in Guyana each year. The only other program for techni-
cians currently offered is at the University of Guyana, which trains about
10 per year. The New Amsterdam Technical Institute, recently established
with CIDA assistance, will begin a small technician training program in 1974,
producing 20 technicians per year. GTI also has the major role in producing
craftsmen and upgrading the skills of employed workers. Each year, 150-200
students obtain craftsman certificates from GTI and a comparable number
complete part-time courses.
3.09      GTI's present courses are geared to the London City and Guilds
Institute's syllabi and examinations, which are not always well matched with
Guyana's requirements. Some of the shortcomings in the courses also result
from the lack of close liaison with employers. The present buildings and
most of GTI's equipment need to be replaced. Furthermore, the total available
space is inadequate to house the existing and additional courses which are
important to the country's development; for example, GTI is now unable to
offer courses to train technical teachers for industrial arts courses in
secondary schools or to meet the demand for block-release courses for up-
grading training. All these problems, together with the heavy emigration
of these students who receive technical certificates at one level or another,
make it necessary for the Government to undertake an in-depth study of
vocational and technical education in Guyana (paras. 2.06, 3.20 and 5.22).
Agricultural Education
3.10      Agricultural education is included in the curricula of a large
number of primary and secondary schools. At the post-secondary level, agri-
cultural training is offered to about 120 students at the Guyana School of
Agriculture (GSA). The school lacks adequate staff, boarding places, work-
shops and dairy sheds to train the agricultural personnel required at the
sub-professional level. The curriculum is somewhat too academic in its
application, lacks balance and the practical orientation necessary to meet
the needs of the agricultural sector. The school presently offers certificate-
level (grades 10-11) and diploma-level (grades 12-13) courses.
3.11      The need for agricultural professionals is likewise not satisfied.
No university-level education in agriculture is available in Guyana, and
although scholarships and loan funds have been set up to enable Guyanese to
study at overseas universities, few training places have been available to
them in some of the specialized fields such as veterinary science. Moreover,
only a few of the trainees have returned to Guyana, and the salary levels
for professionals often are too low to keep them in the country long enough
to satisfy national needs. In the Ministry of Agriculture there are only six
veterinarians to cover the whole country. Important as such specialists are
in the development of a country's economy, the manpower requirements in these
specialized fields arise on so small a scale that in the Caribbean region no



- 7 -
one country car. afford to build and operate a training center to satisfy only
its own requirements.
Non-formal Education  TRsraining
3.12      Although: G'i'yr- nas several non-formal education and training pro-
grams for trainiig sk4L.!id wozkers, technicians, supervisors, managers and
farmers, thus far          o uogzams have had little impact on the economy. In
the fields of indusc-F-PU trLining there is no consistency and coordination
between the formal aai. . on-formal education and training programs.  Two tech-
nical institutes opcrnte part-time courses, combined with evening attendance,
for about 220 train<es at the technician level and a little more than 1,000
at the craftsman level. These courses do not add a significant number of new
workers to the labor iorce because over 80% of them are already employed;
nonetheless, they represent a considerable contribution to the upgrading of
skills within a labor force often found to be seriously under-qualified.
Under the control of t'he Ministry of Labor, small-scale apprenticeship schemes
are under way in many small firms, with an intake of about 200 per year. Two
major industries, sugar and alumina/bauxite, conduct on the-job training pro-
grams.  The Government.s industrial Training Center, established with USAID
assistance, represents a significant departure from traditional technical
education; however, its limited program, with an annual output of 100-150,
has less impact on employment and the economy than the other programs.
3.13      There is no organized provision for the training of farmers or for
the upgrading of agricultural extension agents. Programs are under way to
motivate and organize farmers and workers for cooperatives and to train leaders
and managers of these cooperatives. One agricultural institute was established
in 1973 to train 25 prospective young farmers per year as a pre-requisite to
land allocation, but so far it has had little impact and offers little scope
for the training of practicing farmers. The extension service is understaffed,
with inadequately trained agents, and is not able to perform effectively. Its
communications unit, which is responsible for producing extension materials
and operating radio programs, lacks the necessary facilities and equipment to
do its work properly.
Education Development Strategy
3.14      The Government's education development strategy emphasizes the
fostering of attitudes relevant to the national goal of self-sufficiency in
feeding, clothing and housing the nation, and the orientation of education
and training toward providing a basis for practical and versatile skills
beyond traditionai acadenic attainments. Self-reliance and self-employment
are important aspects cf education objectives. These objectives direct the
content of education nct orxly to offer specific practical or vocational
training programs, but also to broaden the curriculum of general education,
whether it be at -he basic or secondary level. These approaches in turn lead
to redefinition of tea,_her training programs, to review of school/community
relationships and appropriateness of physical facilities, and to reconsidera-
tion of the structure of the formal education system. This strategy conforms
to the national po11ic7 for economic development (para. 2.03).



- 8 -
3.15      The Government's initial program in this direction was the estab-
lishment of multilateral secondary schools, supported by the first Bank/IDA
education project in 1969. Since then the Government has pursued more active
programs aimed at improving efficiency at the primary level and providing more
meaningful learning opportunities to the majority of secondary level students
who remain in the "tops" of primary schools. The Government now plans to
establish community secondary schools to offer these students a program which
will be more socially and vocationally oriented; it will prepare them for
undertaking further training or work, while introducing new procedures for
allowing late developers to transfer into the regular secondary multilateral
system. These community secondary schools will also serve the needs of adults
and out-of-school youths after school hours, thus becoming the focal point for
non-formal education and training in each community. The Government's plan
envisages the establishment of 63 such community secondary schools for about
37,000 students, to replace all the "tops" of primary schools during the next
ten years. The Government intends to implement the plan in two five-year
phases. In the first phase, 30 community secondary schools will be established
to accommodate some 17,400 students, leaving only about 40% of secondary-level
students in the "tops" of primary schools, compared with the present 75%.  In
the second phase the remaining 33 schools will be established.
3.16      In its education development strategy, the Government also intends
to extend the diversified curriculum of the multilateral schools to the exist-
ing secondary schools by providing practical-subject teaching facilities such
as workshops, laboratories and homecraft rooms. Thus the ultimate objective
is to have only two types of secondary schools--multilateral and community--
with a built-in system of transfer between them (Chart I). By 1981, according
to the Government's plan, about one-third of the 50 secondary schools (Govern-
ment and Government-aided) will operate as multilateral-type schools. Imple-
mentation of this plan, together with the community secondary school program,
will generate a substantial increase in the demand for trained secondary teachers,
both for academic and technical subjects and for supervisory staff (Annex 4).
The Government plans to meet this demand by constructing new premises for the
Secondary Teachers' Training College and by conducting a program for the
training of technical subject teachers in cooperation with other teaching
institutions specializing in the fields of agriculture, technology and home
economics. To ensure full implementation of the concept of new curricula for
the community and multilateral schools, the Government intends to appoint
some supervisory staff in the Secondary Teachers' Training College so that
they can both teach and supervise.
3.17      As a corollary to the emphasis now being given to development of the
ricultural sector, the Government plans to strengthen agricultural education
and training in order to (i) alleviate the shortage of agricultural professionals
and technicians; (ii) provide the rural population with systematic education/
training aimed at the organization of cooperatives, motivation for achieving
self-reliance, and improvement of productivity; and (iii) introduce a scientific
method of imparting better knowledge of agricultural technology.



-9-
3.18      To this end, the Government intends to expand and improve the facil-
ities of the Guyana School of Agriculture (para. 3.10), the country's only agri-
cultural education institution at the post-secondary level, and to improve the
quality of its teaching staff and the relevance of the curricula.  The Govern-
ment also plans to phase out the certificate-level course (grades 10-11) in
view of its policy to establish rural training centers (para. 5.15), which
would train young farmers at a lower cost, and because of the lack of demand
for such graduates in the organized sector. To meet manpower requirements in
specialized fields, the Government plans to collaborate with other Caribbean
countries in establishing regional training centers. A first step in this
collaboration was taken recently with the launching of a program for training
animal health technicians (paras. 5.18-5.20).
3.19      As agricultural development is highly dependent on the effective-
ness of extension services, the Government plans to strengthen the activities
of the Agricultural Communications Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture and to
establish a program for systematic in-service training of extension and other
agricultural personnel. To increase agricultural productivity and improve
rural living conditions, the Government also intends to establish some pilot
rural training centers, with the first ones located in areas where major
agricultural development projects are being launched.
3.20      In the field of vocational and technical education, the Government's
strategy is to review the effectiveness of all the existing programs, their
relationship to employment mari-ets and the social rates of return on invest-
ment in vocational and technica! education, before making any further signifi-
cant investment (paras. 2.06, 3.)9 and 5.22). To this end, the Government
established a tripartite advisory council, consisting of representatives
from the Government, employers and workers, for vocational and technical
education under the Minister of Education. The Bank would also assist in
the assessment of the effectiveness of vocational and technical education
(para. 5.22).
3.21      In general, the Government's education development strategy appears
to be consistent with national socio-economic policies as explicitly stated
or implicit in the Second Development Plan (para. 2.03). The targets and
timing of some aspects of the strategy, however, appear too ambitious and
are not readily reconciliable with the intended sectoral distribution of
resources.  In particular, the plannrd programs for establishing community
secondary schools and more multilatetal-type schools have not been tested
against constraints to the supply of qualified teachers and to social insti-
tutions, nor have the financial constraints (paras. 4.02-4.03) been fully
taken into account. The rate of expansion of the rural training centers as
well as of the community secondary schools needs to be decided on the basis
of an evaluation of the experience gained during the initial phase (para.
5.07). Furthermore, expansion of the Georgetown Technical Institute at
this stage appears to be inconsistent with the Government's declared policy
to review the effectiveness of vocational and technical education before
making any significant investment in this field (paras 1.04 and 3.20).



- 10 -
Policies and programs for training manpower needed in the directly productive
sectors such as agriculture and livestock warrant priority and should be
supported.
IV   EDUCATION FINANCE
4.01      Guyana bears a high level of education expenditure.  Although the
share of education in Government expenditure remained low at 14-15% during
the past five years (Annexes 5 and 6), its share in the GDP reached 5.8% in
1974. On a per capita basis, Government education expenditures (in 1974
prices) rose from US$21 in 1969 to as high as US$35 in 1974 (Annex 1). The
fact that the proportion of education expenditure in GDP is high, while
the proportion in Government expendiiure appears low, is attributable in part
to the sluggish growth in GDP and in part to the importance of the Government
sector in Guyana. That sector accounts for as much as 40% of GDP and public
education is free from primary through secondary level (grade 11). The
Central Government, through the Ministry of Education, has the major respon-
sibility for financing public education, which is the largest single element
in its recurrent expenditure. Virtually all school-age children are enrolled
at the primary level and dropout rates are low even at the secondary level.
Expenditures for both of these levels account for more than 80% of Government
recurrent expenditure on education.
4.02      With the priority development programs in the directly productive
sectors having large claims on Government resources, the education sector's
share of Government capital expenditure, as in the past, is not likely to
exceed 10%. This means that during the next five years a maximum of only
US$8.5 million would be allocated each year to investment in the education
sector. Even on the assumption that each year the Government will be able
to accommodate about 1,000 students in the "'tops" program by converting some
primary schools, the first-phase targets of the ten-year plan for the commu-
nity secondary schools alone (para. 3.15) would cost about US$3.1 million
per year (Annex 3). This would leave only about US$5.4 million per year,
which is insufficient to cover investment in the remaining education and
training programs (Annex 6 and para. 3.15). For instance, if half of the
existing secondary schools were to be converted into the multilateral type
by 1981, this alone would require a capital contribution of about US$3 mil-
lion each year. The Government would therefore have to reassess its timetable
for implementing the education development program, particularly for the reform
of secondary education) even though it has high priority in the Government's
investment program.  These constraints have been taken into consideration in
the appraisal of the project. The project would require on the average an
investment of about US$5 million annually, which would be within the manage-
able limits of the Government's financial capacity while leaving reasonable
capacity for other priority programs.
4.03      As the Government's strategy for developing education and training
emphasizes mainly improvement of the quality of education and technician
training in the industrial and agricultural fields, the recurrent expenditures



- 11 -
per student are bound to increase: the community school program alone would
increase the unit recurrent cost by about 62% over the present cost for the
"tops" of primary schools.  However, since the education development strategy
also has built-in efficiency factors -- such as a more economical class size,
a reasonable student/teacher ratio and heavy use of nonformal training schemes
-- the overall increase in recurrent expenditure would be kept lower than
otherwise. Therefore, in 1981 when most of the project institutions should
be fully operational, the recurrent expenditure on education would account
for about 18.3% of the Government's total recurrent expenditure, which is a
moderate increase compared with the present ratio of 16.5% (Annex 5). Al-
though the proposed project would gfnerate annual recurrent expenses of about
US$2.7 million, which would be about 8% of the projected total recurrent
expenditure on education in 1981, the net additional expenditure generated
by the project would be about 20% lower, since many of the institutions in-
cluded in the project are existing ones. Lhe project's recurrent cost, there-
fore, would not constitute an undue burden on the Government's financial
capacity.
4.04      Thus, by 1981 the implementation of the Government's education de-
velopment *Lrategy would require education expenditure (in constant prices)
to grow by about 4% per year. However, the education sector's share in the
GDP would decline slightly, from the present 5.8% to 5.2%, since the GDP is
expected to grow faster than in the past.
V. THE PROJECT
Project Strategy
5.01      The proposed project is designed to support the priority areas of the
Government's education development strategy, and aims at (i) improving effi-
ciency and the relevance of the education system to the needs of the economy
and the local communities; (ii) meeting specific manpower requirements in
priority sectors of the economy, particularly the agricultural sector, to
support the economic development strategy and enhance the absorptive capacity
of productive sectors; and (iii) increasing the productivity of the work
force and developing greater self-reliance among workers. The project would
assist in improving secondary education and strengthening agricultural edu-
cation and training by enabling the Government to (a) initiate a pilot program
of new community secondary schools that would offer the majority of primary
school graduates a more meaningful and employment-oriented program; (b) extend
the diversified curriculum introduced in the multilateral secondary schools
under the first Bank/IDA project; (c) provide facilities for secondary teacher
training, to include construction of a new college; and (d) expand both formal
and non-formal training opportunities for farmers, rural residents, extension
workers, animal health technicians and other types of agricultural technicians.
The prolect would also complement the activities of other multilateral and
bilateral aid agencies (paras. 5.09 and 5.18).



- 12 -
Project Content
5.02      The project would consist of:
(i)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of educational
institutions as outlined in the following table:
Student Places
Number        Addi-   Replace-   Boarding   Staff
Type of Institution        New  Extension       tional    ment      Places    Housing
Community Secondary
Schools                   7        -             -     4,500        -
Multilateral Secondary
Schools                   -       10          1,680      -          -         4
Secondary Teachers'
Training College          1        -            380       70        -         -
Agricultural Technician
Training Institute        -        1             88      -         88         _
In-Service and Communi-
cations Center            1        -             30      -         26         2
Rural Training Centers      6        -            216      -        152        10
Regional Animal Health
Training Center           1        -             72      -         72          1
TOTAL                 16       11         2,466   4,570        338        17
(ii)  Provision of technical assistance comprising 7 man-years
of specialist services and 57 man-years of fellowships
to support implementation and operation of the above project
items;
(iii) A study to assess the effectiveness of the vocational and
technical education and training system in meeting the
country's socio-economic objectives and manpower needs.
Elements of the Project
5.03      A Pilot Program of Community Secondary Schools.  The project would
assist in establishing seven pilot community secondary schools, with a total
of about 4,500 student places, to help provide more meaningful education
for a large number of secondary-level students who are presently in the "tops"
(grades 7-9) of primary schools (paras. 3.05 and 3.15). These schools would
offer during the first three years a balanced general education including
practical subjects, that would comprise 30% of the curriculum, and during
the next vear (or less) short-term vocational training courses in one or two
selected skill trades based on the occupational needs of each community.
These schools, each with about 640 student places, would have practical-
subject teaching facilities such as workshops, laboratories and homecraft
rooms.



- 13 -
5.04      These seven pilot community secondary schools would replace the
"tops" of about 25 out of the 373 primary schools which have such "tops,"
eventually producing about 1,000 graduates annually. Establishment of these
new schools over the long term will also enable the primary schools to im-
prove their quality and efficiency by alleviating the existing unhealthy and
overcrowded conditions. These pilot schools would be centrally located in
relation to feeder primary schools. Because of their pilot nature, the com-
munity schools included in the proposed project would be located in commu-
nities with three distinctive socio-economic backgrounds (interior, rural
and urban), so as to serve as the basis for evaluation and future development
of this type of schooling in other communities. Seven of the 12 educational
districts in the country would have one such school (see Map). The additional
teaching staff required in these schools would be supplied by the Teachers'
Training College to be constructed under the project.
5.05      The detailed curriculum for the first three years of the community
secondary schools is already being developed and is under experimentation.
Work on the vocational courses is expected to start as soon as this curricu-
lum development work is completed. However, assurances were obtained from
the Government that this work would be completed for review with the Bank/IDA
within one year from the date of signing of the Loan/Credit Agreements. To
allow late developers in the community schools to transfer to the regular
secondary schools, a new procedure would be developed and would replace the
Preliminary Certificate and College of Preceptors Examinations, which have
had an adverse effect on the development of sound education programs (para.
3.05). Transfer would be allowed only once, at the end of the third year, up
to which core courses would be common to both the community and the multi-
lateral secondary schools. Assurances were obtained from the Government that
the administrative and legal arrangements for the establishment of this
transfer procedure would be completed six months before the scheduled opening
of- the first pilot community school.
5.06      These community schools would also serve the training needs of
adults and out-of-school youths after school hours, thus becoming each com-
munity's focal point for non-formal education and training. Use of the
facilities for such training programs would be planned by the local govern-
ment, assisted by the field staff of the Ministry of Cooperative Development
and of the Adult Education Association, who work in cooperation with the
Ministry of Education. Assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would make available the school facilities after school hours for community
training programs.
5.07      As the community secondary schools are forerunners of the educa-
tion reform efforts and have a far-reaching impact on the rest of the educa-
tion system, their operation will have to be monitored and evaluated on a
continuing basis. Assurances were therefore obtained from the Government
that it would establish evaluation procedures and a tracer system to follow
up on the progress of students of the pilot community secondary schools,
both while in school and after graduation.



- 14 -
5.08      Multilateral Secondary Schools.  To extend the introduction of the
diversified multilateral school curriculum into existing academic secondary
schools (para. 3.16), the project would assist in the conversion of and ex-
tension of such curriculum to ten existing secondary schools by providing
practical-subject teaching facilities comprising 19 workshops, 19 laboratories
and 19 homecraft rooms. These facilities would also allow an increase of
about 1,680 in enrollments and would serve a total enrollment of 6,630 stu-
dents, which is about one-fourth of total enrollment of secondary schools.
5.09      The schools which would have these extensions were selected with
a view to keeping a balance among ethnic groups and with the locations of the
six new multilateral schools financed under the first Bank/IDA project. Two
of the schools would be located in Amerindian settlements in the interior;
hence, four staff houses would be provided. Some workshops and laboratories
in five of the schools would house equipment recently provided by CIDA
(US$275,000).
5.10      Secondary Teachers' Training College.  The project would provide
for construction of a new Secondary Teachers' Training College (grades 12-14),
with a capacity of 450 places to produce 150 trained teachers annually
(para. 3.07). Together with the annual output of 20 - 30 university graduates,
this would ensure an adequate supply of secondary school teachers for Guyana's
needs. For the training of an adequate number of practical-subject teachers,
the college would develop a cooperative program with existing institutions in
the fields of agriculture, technology and home economics. To facilitate this
close cooperation, the college would be sited at Turkeyen adjacent to these
institutions and to the Primary Teachers' College and the University of
Guyana. However, assurances were obtained from the Government that it would
ensure that the Secondary Teachers' Training College launches a cooperative
program with the Guyana School of Agriculture (GSA), Georgetown Technical
Institute (GTI), and Carnegie School of Home Economics (CSHE) within one year
from the signing of the Loan/Credit Agreements, so that the practical-subject
teacher trainees will be offered pedagogic instruction in the Secondary
Teachers' Training College and specialized subjects training in the respective
training institutions.
5.11      In addition to the three-year pre-service training courses, the
college would also provide systematic in-service training, of varying dura-
tion, to upgrade the quality of existing secondary school teachers. Assur-
ances were obtained from the Government that it would complete the preparation
of a revised and comprehensive program for in-service training for review
with the Bank/IDA within six months from the signing of the Loan/Credit
Agreements.
5.12      Agricultural Technicians' Training Institute.  The project would
provide for expansion and improvement of the facilities of the Guyana School
of Agriculture (para. 3.18). This expansion would enable the school to
almost double its capacity (from 128 to 216 student places) to fill the gap
in the country's supply of agricultural technicians and teachers and to train
them by offering a larger applied and practical course content. The school



- 15 -
would also offer courses in basic science and animal husbandry for the pro-
posed Caribbean Animal Health Technicians' Training Center (para. 5.18). The
institute would produce about 105 technicians annually, about half of whom
would be absorbed by the extension service and the rest by other governmental
agencies and the private sector. Assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that it would phase out the certificate-level course with the establish-
ment of the rural training centers included in the proposed project.
5.13      Agricultural Extension In-Service Training and Communications Center.
The project would provide for establishment of an In-Service Training and
Communications Center in the Ministry of Agriculture (paras. 3.13 and 3.19).
The Center would train annually about 400 agricultural officers in short
courses of one or two weeks' duration, which would emphasize extension
techniques and advanced agricultural technology required for implementation
of the Government's strategy to diversify and specialize agricultural produc-
tion. The Center would also absorb the existing Agricultural Communications
Unit, expanding the Unit's work area, equipment and other facilities to
enable it to do its job more effectively. To take advantage of the existing
amenities such as a library and food services, the Center would be located
adjacent to the Guyana School of Agriculture.
5.14      The Principal Agricultural Officer-Education and Extension would
be in charge of the Center and, in association with other senior officers
of the Ministry, would develop training programs, select appropriate
lecturers, and decide on the priorities of the Communication Unit's work.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would appoint a train-
ing officer, under the Principal Agricultural Officer-Education and Extension,
to ensure that the Center operates efficiently.
5.15      Rural Training Centers.  The project would provide for the construc-
tion and equipping of six rural training centers in the areas where the Govern-
ment is developing major agricultural projects (paras. 3.13 and 3.19). Each
center would have, in addition to boarding facilities, a classroom for 36
trainees, two staff houses, either a workshop or home economics laboratory,
and a demonstration farm. Two of the six centers would be provided with addi-
tional equipment to help farmers clear and cultivate forest land and open up
new arable land.
5.16      These centers would offer a variety of short courses (one or two
weeks) in such fields as commercial farming, organization of cooperatives,
rural construction, nutrition, home economics and child care, for both prac-
ticing and prospective farmers and for rural women. The six centers together
would train a total of about 8,100 persons annually. In addition, the centers
would serve senior students of the Guyana School of Agriculture for their
field training and would become focal points for farmers' meetings and for ex-
changing information on all aspects of development activity in the areas they
serve.
5.17      The centers would be operated by the Agricultural Officer of the
District Agricultural Extension Office, and their programs and administration
would be coordinated by the Training Officer, who would also be responsible



- 16 -
for operating the Agricultural Extension In-Service Training and Communica-
tions Center (para. 5.14). The teaching staff would be provided mainly by
the agricultural and livestock extension staff, who would also select the
trainees, transport them to the centers and follow up on their training in
the field.  Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would reviewv
with the Bank/IDA the operations and programs of the centers on an annual
basis.
5.18      Caribbean Animal Health Technicians' Training Center.  The project
would provide for establishment of a Caribbean regional center for the train-
ing of animal health technicians (paras. 3.11 and 3.18). This proposed Carib-
bean Animal Health Technicians' Training Center would be staffed by qualified
veterinarians in the Caribbean region, and would offer a two-year course in
animal health to train technicians who will work under the supervision of
qualified veterinarians. It would have a capacity for about 72 students and
would be provided with one staff house and boarding facilities for all the
students. The Center would be located adjacent to the Guyana School of Agri-
culture so as to make use of the latter's basic science courses and the exist-
ing amenities. Equipment and technical assistance necessary for the Center's
development at the initial stage (1974-75) are being provided under a UNDP
project.
5.19      With this regional approach, investment will be more efficient and
the participating countries will benefit from the economies of scale in train-
ing technical manpower. By producing technicians instead of highly qualified
professionals, the Center will meet the basic requirements for veterinarian
services at a lower cost in a short period of time, while enabling each
country to make more effective use of the limited number of qualified
veterinarians.
5.20      While only the Government of Guvana, as the major beneficiary, would
be responsible for financing the Center's physical facilities, other Caribbean
countries have agreed, in principle, to share the operating costs (Resolutions
I and II of the Intra-Caribbean Conference in Janaica in February 1974). Sub-
mission of evidence that Caribbean countries, other than Guyana, wotuld use
and share the operating costs of, not less than 50 places of the Center would
be a condition for disbursement of the funds related to this project item.
5.21      Technical Assistance.  To assist the governmental agencies in imple-
menting the project and to improve the quality of the teaching staff in the
project institutions, the project provides for a total of 7 ran-years of
specialist services and 57 man-years of fellowships (Annex 7). The special-
ists would assist the Government in (i) drawing up a new education law and
programming the educational reform measures; (ii) developing curricula in the
GTI and GSA, and strengthening the liaison between these institutions and em-
ployers; and (iii) operating the rural training centers and the Agricultural
Extension In-Service Training and Communications Center. The fellowships would
be provided mainly to upgrade the quality of supervisory and teaching staff
for practical subjects in the project institutions.



- 17-
5.22      Proposed Study.  The project provides for a study that would assess
the effectiveness of vocational and technical education in meeting Guyana's
socio-economic objectives, and identify priorities for the long-term investment
in education and training (paras. 2.06, 3.09 and 3.20). The study would give
particular attention to determining:
(i)  the causes and characteristics of migration, both in and out
of Guyana, and its impact on the labor market and manpower
requirements in the domestic industries;
(ii)  the education factors involved in out-migration and the
implications for the social rates of return on investment
in vocational and technical education;
(iii)  new measures that may be required in vocational and technical
education and in other institutional arrangements to meet
domestic manpower needs and keep skilled workers from migrat-
ing to other countries.
A team of both local and foreign specialists would carry out the study. This
study would be undertaken within the wider framework of UNDP-financed project
on regional human resource development.
Cost of the Prolect
5.23      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at
US$18.9 million. The breakdown by type of expenditure, shown in detail in
Annex 8, is summarized on the next page:



- 18 -
G$ (millions)        US$ (millions)         % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total    Total
a) 7 Community Secondary
Schools                  5.6     5.5  11.1   2.8       2.8   5.6        29.6
b) 10 Multilateral Secondary
Schools (Extension/
Remodeling)              2.5     2.3   4.8   1.3       1.1   2.4        12.7
c) 1 Secondary Teacher
Training College         0.9     0.8   1.7   0.5       0.4   0.9         4.8
d) 1 Agricultural Technician
Training Institute
(Extensions)            0.4      0.4   0.8   0.2       0.2   0.4         2.1
e) 1 Agricultural Extension
In-Service Training and
Communications Center  0.4       0.3   0.7   0.2       0.2   0.4         2.1
f) 6 Rural Training Centers 1.4        1.6   3.0   0.7      0.7   1.4          7.4
g) 1 Regional Animal Health
Technician Training
Center                  0.6      0.4   1.0   0.3       0.2   0.5         2.6
h) Technical Assistance       0.1      1.2   1.3      -     0.6   0.6          3.2
i) Study and Project
Administration           0.8     0.3   1.1   0.4       0.2   0.6         3.2
Base Cost Estimates       12.7    12.8  25.5   6.4       6.4  12.8         67.7
j) Contingencies              6.2      6.0  12.2   3.1      3.0   6.1         32.3
(i) Physical (8%)       1.1      1.0   2.1   0.5       0.5   1.0         5.3
(ii) Price (37%)         5.1      5.0  10.1   2.6       2.5   5.1        27.0
TOTAL              18.9    18.8  37.7   9.5        9.4  18.9       100.0
5.24      The base costs are estimated in prices projected to the end of
December 1974, assuming a price increase of 20% in 1974 (Annex 8). Added to
these base cost estimates are contingency allowances for (a) unforeseen factors
equal to 10% of the estimated base costs for civil works and 5% for furniture
and equipment; and (b) expected price increases varying between 17% in 1975
and 15% p.a. in the subsequent three years for expenditures on civil works,
equipment and furniture and for both local and foreign currency costs based
on the recent inflation trend in Guyana, which exceeded international inflation.
The price contingency allowances for the categories of technical assistance,
the study, and project administration are based on expected price increases
of 11% in 1975 and 7.5% p.a. during the rest of the project period. All con-
tingency allowances amount to US$6.1 million, or 48% of the base cost estimates
(Annex 9).



- 19 -
5.25      The construction cost estimates were derived mainly from the updated
prices of the civil works contracts for the first Bank/IDA education project.
The base cost estimates were, however, adjusted to reflect the maximum use
of local building materials and economical norms and standards in the design
and construction of the project institutions. Further, the construction cost
was computed net of taxes, which represent about 5% of the construction con-
tracts. The result is that the estimated average school construction cost
(including site development cost) ranges from US$161 to US$177 equivalent
per square meter of the gross floor area, which is an upper medium level
among the Bank-financed projects (Annex 10). In particular, standards in
the design and construction of the rural training centers are modest and
conform to local conditions. The Government plans to seek arrangements for
community self-help for the civil works in the community secondary schools
and rural training centers, so as to further reduce the project cost and
stimulate community action. A local cost adjustment ranging from 8% to 30%
has been made for the project institutions outside the Georgetown areas to
allow for differences in transportation costs and availability of local skilled
labor and building materials.
5.26      Furniture and equipment cost estimates are likewise based on actual
costs incurred in the first project. Some allowances were made in updating
the costs to December 1974 and for higher transportation costs because the
proposed project institutions would be more dispersed than those of the first
project.
5.27      As in the first project, the salaries of the Project Unit's director,
general educator, architect, accountant and procurement officer as well as
costs for office supplies and transportation have been included in the project
cost.
5.28      The foreign exchange component of the project would be about US$9.4
million equivalent, representing 50% of the total project cost (Annex 8). It
was calculated on the basis of experience in the first project, as follows:
site works, building construction, and professional services, 41%; furniture,
25%; equipment, 95%; technical assistance, 92%; and the study and project
administration, 27%.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Administration
6.01      To take advantage of experience gained in the first Bank/IDA proj-
ect, the existing Project Unit, which was established within the Ministry of
Education and has performed satisfactorily, should continue serving as the
implementing agency for the proposed project and be responsible for (a) the
overall management of project implementation, (b) coordination with other
ministries and parties involved in the project, and (c) liaison with the



- 20 -
Bank/IDA, The services of the project director for the first project would
be extended so that he can assume responsibility, on a full-time basis, for
both the first and the proposed project. The Project Unit would be strength-
ened by the appointment of two additional staff members, both of whom would
serve full-time: a project educator, to assist the director in carrying out
administrative as well as educational responsibilities, and a project archi-
tect. The procurement officer and accountant positions (both full time)
would remrain. The project director would be directly responsible to the
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, but would be empowered to
make all day-to-day decisions related to the operation of the Project Unit
and have direct access to all relevant ministers whenever necessary.
6.02      In addition, the Government agencies involved in the project, that
is, the Ministry of National Development and Agriculture and the Guyana School
of Agriculture, would each designate senior officials who would be respon-
sible for implementation of the technical aspects of the project components
related to the Ministry or School and for maintaining liaison with the Project
Unit. The Government would also provide the Project Unit with adequate sup-
port staff, facilities and any other resources that may be required. Exten-
sion of the services of the project director for the first project and appoint-
ment of the project architect and the liaison officers, acceptable to the
Bank/IDA, would be a condition for effectiveness of the loan/credit.
Sites
6.03      The sites have already been selected and found acceptable for all
project institutions and extensions except for the seven pilot community sec-
ondary schools. Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would
select sites acceptable to the Bank/IDA for these community schools with suffi-
cient lead-time to avoid delays in construction.
Procurement
6.04      Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which
are satisfactory to the Bank/IDA.  Since most civil works are of small size,
scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested; but they would not be precluded from bidding. Guyana has now
six major construction firms and about 20 small contractors. They are com-
petitive and capable of carrving out the construction involved in the project.
Contracts for furniture and equipn,znt would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. However, furniture
and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$5,000 would
be procured on the basis of the Borrower's regular procedures. Procurement
under these procedures would not, in aggregate, exceed US$215,000 equivalent
or about 10% of the total cost of furniture and equipment.  Since Guyana is
a member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), domestic and other member
countries'  manufacturers would receive preferential treatment in bid evalua-
tions.  The preferential margin for domestic manufacturers would be limited



- 21 -
to 15% of c.i.f. costs of imnorts or of the applicable import duties, which-
ever is lower. The preferential margin for other members of CARICOM would
be limited to 15% of c.i.f. costs of imports or the difference in tariff,
whichever is lower.
Disbursements
6.05      The proposed loan/credit of US$12 million would cover the foreign
exchange component and 27% (US$2.6 million) of the local currency costs. It
would be equivalent to 64% of the total project cost of US$18.9 million. The
loan/credit would be disbursed over a period of four years (Annexes 11 and 12).
Retroactive financing not exceeding US$300,000 is recommended for expenditures
made since July 1, 1974 in respect to expenses for professional services,
technical assistance and project administration. Any surplus funds of the
loan/credit would be used for priority items closely related to the original
project, subject to the Bank's approval.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan/credit negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the following points:
(i) completion of curricula and transfer procedures, use of
the facilities for community training programs, estab-
lishment of evaluation procedures and tracer systems,
and selection of suitable sites in respect to the com-
munity secondary schools (paras. 5.05 - 5.07 and 6.03);
(ii)  initiation of a cooperative program for the training of
practical subject teachers and preparation of an in-ser-
vice training program in respect to secondary teacher
training (paras. 5.10 and 5.11); and
(iii)  phasing out of the certificate program in the Guyana
School of Agriculture, appointment of an officer respon-
sible for the training of farmers and extension officers,
and review of the operational programs of the rural train-
ing centers (paras. 5.12, 5.14 and 5.17).
7.02      A condition for effectiveness of the loan/credit would be the extension
of the services of the project director for the first project and the appoint-
ment of the project architect and the liaison officers, acceptable to the
Bank/IDA (para. 6.02).
7.03      A condition for disbursement of funds related to the proposed
Caribbean Animal Health Technicians' Training Center would be submission of
evidence that Caribbean countries, other than Guyana, would use, and share
the operating cost of, not less than 50 places of the Center (para. 5.20).



- 22 -
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for blend financing consisting of
an IDA credit of US$4 million equivalent on standard terms and a Bank loan
of US$8 million equivalent to the Government of Guyana, for a repayment period
of 30 years, including a 10-year grace period.
April 3, 1975



44"~~~~~44 ~  ~     ~         . .    . .1  . .    ..                 ..  . = 4  4.  .    .    .4          44.4.4.
A A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tz
.4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 ~ 4 4 4 4 4   4  4    4               4  4      4     4   4     44Z4                4      4       4       4 4  4  4  A4






GUYANA
Second Education Project
Public Education: Structure, Enrollments and Teachers, 1973
Percent    Pupil!
Teaching     of Staff   Teacher    Population        Enrollment as
Level          Grades     Age group  Enrollment    Staff       Qualified    Ratio    of age group  percent of age group
PRIMARY LEVEL            1-6        6-11       131,580      3,979          42        33:1        142,651            93
UPPER PRIMARff LEVEL     7-9        12-14       38,359      1,804          44        21:1         62,800            61
SECONDARY LEVEL          7-11      12-16        24,237      1,020)                   24:1        100,400            24
)     ~62
UPPER SECONDARY LEVEL   12-13       17-18          660         30)                   21:1         35,9°°           1.8
TEACHER TRAINING (P)    12-13       17-18          292         24         100        12:1         35,9oo            o.8
TEACHER TRAINING (S)    12-14       17-19           73         121/       100         6:1         53,700           0.1
HOME ECONOMICS          10-11       15-16          127          241/       -            -         39,000            0.3
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS      10-         15-            105)l         6       n.a.        17:1           -                -
TECHNICAL INSTITUTES    12-13       17-18        3,0742/       228        70         13:1         35,900             9
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE   10-13       15-18          111           9        67         12:1         39,000            0.3
UNIVERSITY OF GUYANA    12-         17-          1,4411/      118        100         12:1           -                -
UNIVERSITIES ABROAD     14-         19-            1084/        -         -             -
1/ Mainly part time.                                                                                                         >s
2/ Full-time equivalent.                                                                                                     X
3/ Part time.
;/ In the University of West Indies.
Source: Ministry of Education and University of Guyana.



GUYANA
Second Education Project
Public Enrollments in the Secondary Education Systgm  1_i9q9-1988
Actual                      -- Projection ->
Grades             1968/69    1962/70    1970/71    1271/72    1972/73    1973/74    1976/77   1981/82   1987/88
7               3.368      3,548      3.4i5o     4,0O77      4,255       4,3oo      5,300      5,600      5.900
8               3,403      3,981      4,369      4,254       5,027       4,600      5,600      52800      6,ooo
9               3,388      3,70 4  4,260         4,587       4,508       5,000      5,700      5,900  _6,200
10               3,3'87      3,641     4,143       4,78       4,714       4,800       6,loo     6,200      6,300
11              -4,1107      3,916     4,310       5,179      5,731       5,700       6,300     6,500      6,600
Sub-'.total
(7 - 11)        17,653     18,790    20,532       22,855     24,235      25,000     29,000    30,000    31,000
12 and 13            466         513       467         609         660        700       1,000     1,200      1,500
Sub-total
(7 - 13)        18,119      19,303    20,999      23,464     24,895      25,700      30,000    31,200    32,500
(Teachers)              782         868        998      1,070      1,050       1,070       1,250     1,300      1,530
Co=munity Secondary
School (7 - 10)                                                               500       1,000    10,000    16,000
(Teachers)                                                                         30         50        500        800
Total Enrollments                                                              26,200     31,000    41,80o    49,100
(Total Teachers )                                                            1,100       1, 300     1,800      2,330O
2- "Tops" of primary schools not included.
By 1976/77, the six new mltilateral schools will have added 4,000 new places in secondary schools.
By 1981/82, it is assumed that the Government will have added 5,000-5,500 more places in community schools
plus 1,000 in secondary schools and by 1987/88, a further 6,000,plus 1,000 secondary places, in addition
to those in the second Bank project.



GUYANA
Second Education Projeot
Demand and Supply of Secondary School Teachers: 1973-1988
(1)            (2)              (3)             (4)             (5)            (6)            (7)
Increase       Average         Annual
Stock          Stock *        Average          Wastage          over           Annual         Output
1972/3         1987/8           Stock         5 percent       15 years        Increase        Needed
Col((1 )+(2)) . 2    5% of Col (3)  Col (2)-(l)  Col (5)M 15    Col (4) + (6)
English              80             220             150              7.5              140            9.3            17
Modern Languages     17              53              35              1.8               36            2.4             4
Mathematics          51             195             123              6.2              144            9.6            16
Science              23             155              88              4.4              132            8.8            13
Social Science       43             173             108              5.4              130            8.7            14
Music                 6              56              31              1.6               50            3.3              5
Physical Education    5              69              37              1.9               64            4.3             6
Agriculture          11             104              58               2.9              93            6.2              9
Industrial Arts      23             188             101               5.1             155           10.4            16
Home Economics       30             191             111               5.6             161           15.0             20
Commerce              6             110              58               2.9             104            6.9             10
Arts and Crafts      22             176              99               5.0             154           10.3             15
Library Teacher       -               63              32              1.6               63           4.2              6
TOTAL               317            1,753          1,,026             51.7            1,434           99.9           151
*  Based on Enrollments in 1987/8 shown in Annex J.
Source:  Ministry of Education and mission estimates.



ANM=  5
GUYANA
Second Education Pro.ject
Current expenditure of the Central Government on
Education & Trainingz: 1969. 1974 & 1981
(-G$'000)
1969 Y/         1974           1981 2/
Ministry                              Actual          Estimated      Projected
Ministry-of Education                     16,844.1          39,079.0        501981.o
1. Primary                                  -             18,523.0        23,680.0
2. Tops of Primary                          -              6,o6o.o        5,264.0
3. Community Secondary                      -                -             2,600.0
4. SecQndary/Multilateral                   -              5,955.0         8,112.0
5. Upper Secondary ("All level)             -                277.0           528.0
6. Teacher Training (primary)               -              1,242.0         1,379.0
7. Teacher Training (secondary)             -                187.0         1,152.0
8. Technical Education                      -              1,426.0         1,492.0
9. University Education                     -              3,666.0         4,400.0
10. Research & Curr. Developnent             -                445.0           540.0
11. Administration                           -              1,298.0         1,834.0
Ministry of Agriculture                      170.9             286.1           918.0
1. Agr. Educ. in primary schools             4.9               9.6            12.0
2. Grants to GSA                           153.8             269.0           330.0
3. Farm Youth Training                      12.2               7.5             8.0
4. Rural training center                     -                  -            255.0
5. Animal Health Trg. Center                                                  58.0
6. In-service Trg. Center                    -                  -            245.0
Ministry of Health                            33.0             178.4           657.0
1. Training of Para-medical Personnel       33.0             178.4           657.0
Ministry of Public Services                   46.3              97.0           116.0
1. Government Training Center               46.3              97.0           116.0
Ministry of Labor                             74.1              15.0            18.0
1. Grants to labor college                  15.0              15.0            18.0
2. GITC                                     59.1
Total                                    1L7168.4                          52.690.0
Share of Ministry of Education               98.1%             98.5%           96.8%
As % of Current Expenditure                  16.1%             16.5%           18.3%
1/ In current prices
7/ In 1974 prices
Source: Ministxy of Economic Development and mission estimates.



GUYANA
Second Education Project
Capital Expenditure of the Ministry of Education: 1969-197T (GO)
1969  1970    1971            1972          ~~~~1973         1974
TYPE OF EXPU1DITURE             1   1969           1970            1971           1972          Revised        Estimate
1. Primary & Secondary
School construction            691,572        186,871        140,042        435,479         550,882       1,000,000
2. Teacher Training College
(primary, and multilateral
schoolsL.-                     302,074        723,160        361,534      2,411,714       7,499,640       9,691,426
3. Facilities for practical
subject teaching               132,614         43,819         53,890            -            50,000         244,000
4. Teacherst Houses                      70         6,640         18,980          48,887         25,000          90,000
5. Education for the Hand-
icapped                          5,002         13,398           -               _              _               _
6.  Equipment                       88,759        161,502        126,085         103,999        166,455         394,000
7.  Technical Educatiolra          105,594      2,336,229        458,336         157,503         67,400         260,000
8.  University of Guyana         3,099,333        337,747        490,073         500,000        400,000         484,000
9. Loans to Student.               258,943        299,382        292,464         207,426        397,000       1,025,000
10.  Approved Schools/i                 _             _               _              _               _
11.  School Sites                     33,816          _             40,000           _               _            25,OOO
12.  Research & Development       .                                                                            .  _  _
TOTAL                   4,717,577      4,108,748      1,980,404       3,925,008      9,156,317      13,285,426
As 0/o of Capital Expend-
iture of Central Govemment         10.5           9.4             4.3            4.5            10.4           11.1
/1 The IBRD/IDA Education Project
2  Technical and vocational schools, including Government Industrial Training Center.
Teacher Training Colleges
/   Probationary Schools



GUYANA
Second Education Project
Technical Assistance
S: Specialist
F: Fellowship
YEARS   1975         1976        1977         1978        1979         Man           Cost
Area          QLARTERS 12 3 4        1 2 3 4     1 2 3 4     1 2 3 4      1 2 3 4     (Years)
I.  Ministry of Education                                                                                          50.000
1. Education Law Rz Programming       S S S      S                                                  1(1)         35,000
2. Educ. Planning &t Progra-mming     F F F      F F F F     F                                      2(2)         15,000
II.  Secondary Teacher Training 1/                                                                    21(23)       172,500
1. Teacher Trainer:
- Education                                    F F      FF F F      F F                        3(3)         22,500
- English                           FF      F FFF       F F                                    2(2)         15,000
- Ifathematics                     FF       FF F F      FF                                     2(2)        15,000
- Science                          FF       F  F F      FF                                     2(2)        15,000
- Social Studies                   F F      F F                                                2(2)         15,000
- Physical Education               F F      F F                                                2(2)         15,000
- Agriculture                                               F F     F F                        1 1)         7,500
- Technical Education                           F F     FF F F      F F                        2(2)        15,000
- Arts and Crafts                               F F     F F F F     F F                        2(2)        15,000
- Home Economics                   FF       FF F F      FF                                     2(4)         30,000
- music                                    F F F F                                             1(1)          7,500
III. Technical Education
(Georgetown Technical Inst.)                                                                     19(20)       220,000
1. Curriculum Development                S S     S S S S     S S                                     1(2)        70,000
2. Teacher Trng. - Plumbing              F F     F F                                                 2(2)        15,000
3.               - Bricklaying                       F F     F F                                     2(2)        15,000
4.               - Surveying             F F      F                                                  3( 3)       22,500
-Q               - Mechanics                         F F     F F                                    5(5)         37,500
8<.              - Electricity                       F F     F F                                                30,0CO
7.  M4aintenance IHechanics               F F    F F F F                                                          15,0u0
IV. Agricultural Education                                                                            2g'i7- I/', 258,625
1. Guyana School of Agriculture                                                                    10(10-3/4)  108,125
A. Curriculum Development                      S S S S                                             1(1)        35,000
B. School Administration                F                                                         1(1/4)       1,875
C. Agronomy/Horticulture              F F      F F F F     F F F F     F F                        2(3)        22,500
D. Agricultural Engineering                        F F     F F                                    1(1)         7,500
E. Food Science                                    F F     FT-                                    1(1)         7,500
F. Agricultural Chemistry             F F      F F F F     F F                                    1(2)        15,000
G. Plant Protection                                F F     F F                                    1(1)         7,500
H. Biology                             FF      F F                                                1(1)         7,500
I. Audio-Visual Aids                  F F                                                         1(1 /2)      3,750
2. Ex'tension Training
and Cormmunications Center                                                                      4(4)      120,000
and Rural Training Centers
A  Extension Training                  S S      S S S S    S S                                     1(2
FF      F F i2(1
B. Communication (Educational)                 S S S S                                             1 1)
3. Rural Training Centers           F F F F      F F F F     F F F F      F F                       14(3)       22,500
Total                                                                                        22L63z.3LL  6780o00
1/ One in each field (two in technical education), except in Education will be appointed as
supervisor for secondary education in the Ministry of Education, but will also work for
the College of Education as part-time lecturers.
Durino loan "-n'4a+-, cn5, f±e1lowships were Increased by six man-years, but the cost s,-ary
tabie (Annex 8) remains &nadjusted for this change.



IA                                    H                                                                               H-
H                                   H          H    H    H       H                  H     H    H    H                                                H-
9             H                                                        HHHHHH
H             H                                                        HHHH,-4H
H             H
o             H-   'H  H            H          H    H    H    H9       CHOHOC   H-OH-OH,-.  HHH-HHHH-HH-   H   H-H-H-HHHH-  H
H                    H           H     .        .-                        H-HHH-H-HH-HHH-L,H-H-
H             H'                                    H    H    HH       HH-H-H-H-H   H   H-           H                              H H-H-H-H-H-H
H     H              H               H    H    HH                                     H-
H    H    H           H    HH      H-Cob    H  H   H
H             H-    H           H    H-H-    HOHO
H-                   H    H                 H    H-H    HHHHHH                       H-    HHOHHHOHH  H   1   HOOHOCH   H
H                            H-HHHHH                       H  HHHHHH2H-HH HHIHH-  H-H  H  HHHH-H-HHHHH. H  HHHHH
H-            H            I                                    HH     HHHHH        H-  H-H    H    H       HH      OH-Hobo   H   H        IH
H                     H    H    H          H    HH        HHHO4H   -   Hr    q    IC    HHHHH-HHHH    H                      H-H
H-                   H-    H    H          H    H-H        H  HHH   H   H        H    H    HHHHH- HHH                  H    HO      H
H                          H               H    H H       H  H-H-H  H-  HH            H    H  HHHH         Hr   H      H       H    H-
H-                                               HH           HH            H    H    H    HOCH    H  H   
H-              9       H          H      H   04      H    H    H  HHH   H   1H             H-
H-             H-                      H  H   HH           H    H-  HHH-  H-  0H   H-       H
H    H-H              H  H   H-H    H           HHHr,   H   H    H                      H
H                          H    H          H    -H-H                  H   HH    H    H                     H-H  H-
H                    H               H    HH                       HH    H           H-H-H   H  HH   H                        H
H                                                                 HH    HH HH  H  H   H                    H
H            I                   H          H      H              HH-       H    H    H-                   OH
H        -,H-            H-         H      H                      H-H    H    H                   H    H                    H
H     H         H-H-                                                 H   -       H    H                          H                  H
I                              H  H                      HHHHH                                                         H
H                                          H-      H
H                                          H       H                             H                               H
I                                                              H         H
H                                                  H-                       H    H    H                          H                  H
H                       H    H    H                                              H
H            j                             HH                               H  H  H                              H-                 H
H                                           H      H                                  H-
2
H                                                                                     H                         S
H-                  H H
H-  H-   H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H  H    H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H-H
H-                                         H          H   H    H-HHHH-HHHHH-  H-   H-HHHHHH   H
H-                     'H                  -    H-    H   6    H-HHHHHHHHH   H    H-HH-H-HH-H   H H
H-                    H-  H-H-H-H-H-H-H   HHH-HH-HH- HH-H- H  HHHH-HHH  H  H
H                      'H    HH-H.HH-H  H-   H    H    H    HH'HHHHHH-'HH-H'HH-H-H-H-H-H-  H-H
H-   HHHHHH-.HHHH-  H-   H-HHHHH-H   H H H
H-  HHHHHH  H  H  H  H  HHHHHHHHHH H  HHHHHHH
6          -                            H     H-H-H-H-H-H-                  HH-H-H-'HH-HHH-H- H  H    H-HH-HH-HH  H
H-H-'  H- [   H                                H-    H-H-H-HHH                     H    HH-HHH-HHHH- HH-H-H-HH-H'HH-
H                                                              .                                                                    HH
H  'H    H-H                                H     HH-H-H-H-H-H-    H       H    H    H-H-H-HHHHH- 'HH  HHH-H-H-H-HH-
H  H    H-H-                                                                                             'H    H              H H
H                                               H     H H-H-H-H-H-                 H-   HHH-HHHH-H-H-H-  H    HH-H-HHHH
H-  H    -H--H                              H     HH-H-HHH                      H    HH-H-HHHHHHQ   H    HHHHHHH
H    H                                                                                     H-                  H-
'H H-  H-I  -oH                                H-HHHHH-                            H    H-  H-   H-H-H      H-   HHHHHHH            H
H    H-H-H- H-H-H-H-H-H- H    H-'HHH-H-H-H   H    H
6         [                                    -                                                                                       H
H   H    H-H                                H     H-  HHHH                                           H-H- -
H    H-HHH'HHHH-L    H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H             H-
H    H-
g                                                             #H.
H-H-                                       H-H-                       H    H-H-H    H'HH  -          H-H-H  H-H-H  H
H- 'H   H                                             H-H  H-H-H                   H    H-OH-H      HHH-                     .  -H
I                                           H-H   H--H                            .    .HH. H H.    H-H-H-    H-H-
H-        I                                           H H H H H H                  H-   H-H-H-    H-HH- H-   H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H                H
J
I                                                                                                                 H       H-H  H  H
I                                                                                                                 H-       H    H
H-H                                H     H-H-H-H-H-H
H     HH-H-H-HH
'H 'H  H    H-H                                'H    H'HH-HHH
9-
H- -H        H-H- g                            H      H-H-H-H-H-H-  H    H     H                                                    ,
6 .
H-        H-H-  H-   H                      H      H- H-H-H-H-H-H-H        H                                                     H
H-  H-   'H   'H     H                                .-        H-
H-  H-   H-H- H-   H-                       H     H-H-H-H-H-H-H-                      H-H-                                       H-H
H   H-   H'H  H    H-                       H-    Hr H-H-H-H-H       H                H-H-                                       H-H
H-  H-                                                                                                                           H-H
'H       H-H-  H-  -H                       H-                 H-               H                         H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H        H-H
H-  H-   H-H  H    H-                       H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-             H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H    H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H H-H
H- H   H    H-H- H-    H                        H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-             H-H-    H-HH- H-H H-H-H-H-H-H-H- HHH-HH-H  'H H-H
6                                                                                                                                    H-H
H-  H-   OH-  H    H                        H     H-H-H-H-H-H-  H-   H     H   H    H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H    H-H-H-H-H-H-H  H- H-H-
H-                                                                                                          H H-
H-H-    H-   H    H-                    H-                              H-   H-
H-    H-  H-   'H    H-              H-                              H-    H-                                                 -   H-H-
6                        .               .                               .     -                                                  H- HH
'H  H-  H    H    H    H-                H-                             H-    H
H-  H-    H-   H-    H-              H-                                    H    H-
H   0  'H    H-    H-    'H              H-                        H-    'H   H-    H-
H-  H-  H-    H    H    H                H-                        H-   H-    H    H-                                             H-H-H
H-  H-   H-   H-    H                H-                        H-    H     'H   H                                             H H-H
H-        H-    H           H                                                                                                                                    H
H-                                                                                                                                   H
H-                       H          H-
H-  H   H-   H    H-   H-
H-  H-         H-    H-    H
H-  H  H'    j  H-    H    H-
H-   H     H-
H-   H-   H-                                                                                                        H-H
H-H-  H-   H-   H-                                   H-          H-   H                         H-   H-H-H-H-H-H-H-
-    H                                          -          H    H                                              H
H-  H-  H-I    H-  H-   H-   H-H-H-H-H-H- H-H-H- H-  oH   H-  'H-   H-H 46H-H- H-H-H-H-H- H-   H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H-H
H-                 H    H-   H-                       H-H-H-H-H-H                        S H-H- H-H-HH-H-H-   H-H-H-H-H-H-H
CA  CA I H-H. H    H-   H    3    3               H- H-H-H-H-H-                          ,     H-HH4 H-H- H    H-H-H-H-H-H-H-
H                  .     .    .
H-    H    H    H-  H)    H-                   H-   H      H-  H-   *H-H-H  H-rH-OH-H  H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-
H-  H-   H-H  H-   H-   H-            .     H-                                                 H-H-H-H-H- H-   H-H-4H-H-HH-H   H
H-  H-  H-   HH-  H    H    H    H-   H         H-H-H-H-H-H-H-  H    H-    H-
H-  H-  H-   H-H-  H-  'H   H-   H    H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-H-    H-   H-  'H  'H'HCAH-CHH-HH-HH-    H-OH-H-H-H-OH-H-  H H
H-H-H-H-H-H       H'   H-  H-   H-H-H-H-H- H-H-H H- H- H-   H-OH-H-H-H-H-H   H H
H   H- - H-         H-   H    H    H-    H-    H-H-H-H-H-H-  H-  OH    H-H-H-H-H-H-H- H-H-H H-H- H    HH-H-'HHHH-  H H



GUYANA
Second Education Project
Contingency Allowances
(US'o000)
Professional        Project              Technical Assistance
Site Works         Build Ig           Furl iture        Eq.i ment           Services       Administration      Speciialists       Fello ships          Study
Local  Foreigcal calFreig    Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   T0TAL
Physical increase %                 10                10       10         5        5         5       5        10       10         _        _         _        _         _       _         _
Price increase %                    39                39       39        53       53        53      53        39       39        19       18        15       15         _      34         9        9
Total project cost without         557.0    801.5  4,425.0  2,598.7   326.1   108.7    89.2   1,694.4  538.6    440.7    365.c   135.0    24.5   220.5                        388.1    36.5    13.5    12,763.0
contingencies
Physical increase                   55.7      80.1    442.5    259.9    16.3        5.4      4.5      84.7   53.8       44.1      -                  -        -         -        -         -       -       1,047.0o
Price increase                     219.7    316.1  1,745.4  1,025.0   172.5    57.5    47.2           396.4  212.5    173.9       66.      24.5      3.7    33-1               58.3       6.6      2.4     5,061.1
Total contingencies          275.4    396.2  2,187.9  1,284.9   188.8    62.9    51.7           981.1  266.3    218.0        66.     24.5      3.7    33-1                58.3      6.6      2.4      6,108.1j
Total project cost including   832.4  1,f97.7  6,612.9  3,883.6   514.9   171.6   140.9   2,675.5  804.9    658.7    431.    159.5    28.2   253.6                           446.4    43.1    15.9    18,871.1'
contingencies                                                         _              I                               _                            _                 _             I                                  ..



GUYANA
Second Education Project
Unit Capital Costs of Project Institutions (in us$)
Grosp Area     Average             Cost per Student Place or House
in 14 per      Cost per      Construction
student place  M2 ofcons-   & Site Deve-
Category                       or house       tructionv   loDmenti         Furniture   Equipment    Total
I.  ACADEMaC AND COMMUNAL
Community Secondary Schools                 4.3           170             899           54           180       1,133
Secondary Teacher Training College          6.4           161           1,246           76          421        1,743
Rural Training Centers-/                   10.9           177           2,730           81         1,360        W71
Caribbean Animal Hee4th Technician         17.8           161           3,742          158            -        3,900
Training Centen.2
II. BOARDING'
Rural Training Centers                       8.3          179           1,494           93            -        1,587
Caribbean Animal Health Technician          11.4          161           1,850          118            -        1,968
Training Center
III.  STAFF HOUSING
Rural Training Centers                    111.6          205          22,825             -            -      22,825
Caribbean Animal Health Technician        139.0          161          22,500             -            _      22,500
Training Center
i-Total cost of site development included in Category I - Academic and Communal.
a/Rural Training Centers will provide short courses of non-formal education for, about 81,000 persons annually.
for the Caribbean Animal Health Technician Training Center will be granted by UNDP.
slocal cost adjustments, ranging from 8% to 30% for differences in transportation costs                     o
and availability of local skilled labor and building materials.



GUYAJ4A
Second Education Project
Project Implementation Schedule
YEAR                  j , 9 7 5                                                                  L      __._               0... 1979.2
ljjARiER  TL  .   ~L1    1 j 2_LL   2   1. k_L _£_. 3  J2i  1    2 J                 1 1   2  2_ 
Community Secondax.-,r Scho> ls                     I
Civil Works                                          /// ///  +:: :      +      ** *** *** *** ***  ** ***  ** *** *** *   ***
Furniture and Equipment                                  ,, ,, ,.      zzz zzz www Vww ww       vwP  v-v v-vv    00vv 0 ccc cCc CC Cc coo
Multilateral Schools (EPtensions)
Civil Works                                      /////::          +++ ++ x- ***   *      *       * *   **
Furniture and Equipment                                  t,, , i,,  ,, zzz zzz wn wwww ww vvv wv-v ccc ccc coc
Teacher Training College (Secondary)
Civil Works                                                       //          -+++ +++ ---** *** *** ****  - * *** ***
l'urnithure and Equipment                                 ,,,t,lit, lit,  z zzz wzz  www  'Wh       V`v vVC ccc
Guyana School of Agriculture
Civil Works                                          /./           . . .       **     *   * *xl* * x
Furriture and Equipment                                           """ zzz zzz www V nrl www v-vv vvv coc
In-Service Training and Communications Center                                                                                             3
Civil Works                                               :        ++ +++ a **   -X*X* -X-x **** *** ***  ***
Furniture and Equipment                                               ZZ ,, ,,,i!? Z ZZ Zz www    - www vwv V-VV  coo
Rlural Training Centers
Civil Works                                          /// /// ::: -::: +++ +          * ** *1** **-x *** *** **.* *** *** *** ***
Furniture and Equipment                                   ,.,           z zz z z z u z   WW 4  VW VW vv V-fv Vvv ccC c cC cCC ccC ccC
Caribbean -Animal Bealth Technician
Traininp Center
Civil 1,orks                                      /!//+++ -i-i-i *** *** ***" *** ****11
Furniture                                         _        t   _wz   www WWW v-vv vv       C c _c
CIVIL WORKS:                                                                     YURNITURE A::I ErQJIPMi&Th2:
/   Selection and survey of sites                                                " Preparation of master lists
Preparation of construction bid documn-ts                                      z Preparation of bid documents
+ Tender and contract awarding                                                   w T'ender and contract awarding
* Construction                                                                   v Mlanufacturing and reception
c Installation



ANNEX 12
GUYANA
Second Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
;cpenditures                         Disbursements
(u__   M.)                            (uss M.)
Amount     Accumula-                   Amount     Accummula-    Undis-
FY        During     ted Exiend-   Unspent       During     ted Dis-  *  bursed
(Semester)    Semester   itures        Balance*      Semester   bursements   Balance*
1975
1st                                    19.2                                   12.0
2nd          0.2         0.2           19.0        0.1          0.1           11.9
1976
1st          0.2         0.4           18.8        0.1          0.2           11.8
2nd          1.8         2.2           17.0        1.1           1.3          10.7
1977
1st          1.8         4.0           15.2        1.1          2.4            9.6
2nd          3.0         7.0           12.2        1.9          4.3            7.7
1978
1st          3.3        10.3            8.9        2.1          6.4            5.6
2nd          3.5        13.8            5.4        2.2          8.6            3.4
1979
1st          3.5        17.3            1.9        2.2         10.8            1.2
2nd          1.5        18.8            0.4        0.9         11.7            0.3
1980
1st          0.4        19.2             -         0.3         12.0
*At end of semester.






GUYANA. ST-RUCTURE OF THE E01U)CATIONAL SYSTEMI, 1974
Prirnery=-'-      -    .                                          Seconda-y                            "         Post Secondary & University--
SECONDARY AND MULTI-LATERAL                   SIXTH FORMS
r1K7 -VPKLV-W±3                                                                                                   2 V7-- 1a UNIVERSITI ES ARROAD
UNIVERSITY OF GUYANA
"TOPS' OF                                       PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
IN -S  RVICE
COMMLJNI TY SCHOOLS                              SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE
CERTIFICATE             DIPLOMA
Arras related to proposed project
0          Secondary Schools -ntra.rice Ex,millation
Prel i,m,av Cerlifi-te and/or College of                                                              SCHOOL_ OF HOME ECONOMICS
Preceptors Examination                                                                                                     r  '    r-'
1    2            1---i   "---q2-
London I   -rir Certificte f Edc ti-n Exa-nineti.n                                                                         L   J    L-_J
Ul            - A level                                                                                            CRAFT
Service as a teacher                                                                                   1    {2
1`7        Phasing Out
Lhasing  atTECHNICIAN
[3p         Part-time or dayrelease only                                                                                                          2        3S
Ii~J  Third yeaor sarveyorn only
NURSE TRAINING
Grade  1        2         3        4       5         6        7       8         9       10       11            12       13       14       15        16
'-e--                     I                                                    ---I -- H I--                       I -  t-I
Age    6        7        8         9       10       11       12       13       14       15       16            17       18       19       20        21
The age-grade relationshsip applies only mhen students enter school atE 6ed proceed thro-gh the system without repealing a class
VVorld Bank-8897(2R)
1-4






GUYANA
Full-time enrollment & population pyramid 1973
BOYS                                                   GIRLS                                        Total   Level %
Grade    Age Group                                                                                                                                                                      age
population                                                                                                                                                                     group
15       15,847                                                                                    10
14       16,736                                     0§~ s$X $~z7 /$)ij0                                       Vt       YYJYxYYY
13       17,584                                                                            57         2                                                                      I       0
12       18,400                                                                          7           415
Secondary Departments
of Primary Schools
1 1      19,139284                                                                                   87(
10       19,953                                                                            2,303  12413                                                                              >
O   20,905                                                                42                       ] 24,0
8   21,895                                                            6,626839                 256378,9
7       22,719                                                            7,907       j   2,00,  2,249             7,814
Secondary
Schools
6       23,373                   K11,042   10,926                                                                                                               :
5       23,851                                                                             9,761   9,24
4       24,118                ,////A10,025    9,779                                                                                                      g//          
3       24,136                  //,10,978   10,823                                                                                                             E2 rsE
2       23.874                 V/211,211   10,704                                                                                                            r///'
1       23,299         13,887 
Age Gro,,p Ponp,flti-n
Note: Enrollments include ov-,age and younger age pupils.                                                                                World Bank-8896(R)                             H






LU4
4          Av~~~~~~
<                                                                                             0-0
<~~~~0                    o%~~~~~
LUJ
61
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~



