                                                                                                            -
    "'-                               T                        .~'CfRCULAT/NG COpy
      'FILEo     C " ' N G COpy TtJ~,RETURNEO TO REPORTS DESK
      ~          .     ,.. TO REPORTS DESK
          DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                                      Not For Public Use




.
                                                                                                              Report   No.P-160l-GUA




                                           REPORT      fu~D    RECOMMENDATION

                                                              OF THE

                                                        PRESIDENT

                                                              TO THE

                                                EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

                                                              ON A

                                           PROPOSED CREDIT AND A LOAN

                                                               TO

                                                           GUYANA

                                                            FOR A

                                            SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT




                                                    April 3, 1975




                 This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published. quoted
                 or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
                 accuracy or completeness of the report.
                                                              ..

                                   11
           CURR.WCy EXi4UIVA.Ll!lfrS


Currency Unit          =         Guyana Dollar (G$)
U8$l                             G$2.l6
G$l                             U8$0.46
G$l,OOO                =         U8$463.79
G$l,OOO,OOO            =         u8$463,790.90

Fiscal year                      J anu.ary 1 to December 31




11 As of March 24, 1975.   (The Guyana Dollar has been
-   floating with the Pound Sterling since July 1972.)
             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMl!.m'

          REPORT AND RECOMMmIDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE ~UTIVE
         DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND LOAN TO GUIANA
                       FOR A SEroND EDUCATION PROJECT


1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop
ment credit for the equivalent of u5$4.0 million and a proposed loan for the
equivalent of U8$8.0 million to Guyana to help finance a second education project.
The loan would have a term of 30 years, including 10 years of grace, with interest
at 8-1/2% per annum. The credit would be on standard terms.

                             PART I - THE EX;CIIOMY

2.        The Bank's most recent economic report (Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Guyana, Report No. 242a-GUA, dated December 19, 1973) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on December 27, 1973. An economic mission is scheduled
for April-May, 1975. Basic data are shown in Annex I.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
3.        The economic activity and population of Guyana are concentrated along
a narrow coastal strip where sugar and rice are grown. With the exception of
bauxite mining, the vast hinterland remains largely unexploited. The relatively
efficient mining sector has assumed increasing importance in the economy and both
the sugar and rice industry are comparatively modernized, but overall development
has been retarded by a difficult physical environment, a small domestic market,
and political uncertainty. Per capita GNP (u8$400 in 1972), while fairly evenly
distributed, is low in comparison with per capita GNP in most other countries of
the Western Hemisphere. The path of economic growth has been marked by persistent
high unemployment, slow agricultural growth, poor export performance, and a lag in
private investment. Real growth of the economy has been little more than the
increase in population and has made no dent in the intractable 15% level of
unemployment. GDP actually contracted during 1972 and 1973 because of adverse
weather conditions and a depressed aluminum market.


4.        The development strategy of Guyana since independence in 1966 has been
to increase the role of the public sector and to promote cooperatives. The gov
ernment has expanded state enterprises, created new state-owned financial
institutions, and nationalized the country's whole bauxite/alumina industry. The
public sector now occupies a dominant position in the commercial and industrial
sectors. The growing role of the public sector is reflected in the increase in
its share of gross domestic capital formation from 4~ in 1968 to 6~ in 1972.
Increasingly, therefore, the level of public sector savings will depend on the
surpluses realized by public enterprises.
5.        Recently the economy of Guyana has been strongly affected by events in
the world commodity markets, and this serves to illustrate the country's sensitiv
ity to changes in external economic conditions. Higher oil prices came at a time
when Guyana I s economic performance was already weak. Guyana's external account
worsened in 1973 as a result of an adverse movement in the terms of trade and
                                      - 2 


there was a serious loss of reserves. Early in 1974, the country's prospects
gave cause for concern because of an expected further sharp adverse moveroont in
the terms of trade, and the government was prompted to tighten import controls
and to introduce new tax measures in an attempt to stabilize both the balance
of payments and the public finances. Impressive though these measures were,
they would not in themselves have been sufficient to restore equilibrium, however.
In addition to the higher cost of pertroleum, food imports increased by 30% in
1974--mainly because of higher prices--and this threatened to undermine the
viability of the balance of payments. Guyana was saved from a financial crisis
of severe dimensions only by subsequent developments in the world market for
its principal exports, notably sugar and bauxite.

6.        Bauxite export receipts are estimated to have been US$90 million in 1974
compared with US$65 million the previous year. About two-thirds of Guyana's pro
duction and exports of bauxite and alumina were handled by a government-owned
corporation and the remainder by a subsidiary of Reynolds Metal Co. until the end
of 1974. At that time agreement was reached between the government and Reynolds
concerning the terms for nationalization of its subsidiary's assets. The net
compensation to be paid by the government amounts to US$lO million over a period
of 13 years. All bauxite production and exports are now in government hands.

7.        The precipitous rise in world sugar prices has caused a sudden improvement
in Guyana's short-term prospects. As a result, Guyana was able to renegotiate terms
for shipments to the United Kingdom during the second half of 1974. Sugar exports
are estimated to total US$130 million in 1974 compared with US$36 million in the
previous year. This increase in earnings from sugar was more than sufficient to
compensate for the increased cost of both petroleum and food imports, and Guyana
actually improved its position as a net exporter of agricultural commodities during
1974. Average sugar export prices in 1975 will likely be higher than the average
1974 level, and Guyana should be able to increase its earnings even more. Recently
concluded negotiations with the EEC resulted in the renewal of the guaranteed market
arrangement for Commonwealth Caribbean sugar producers at a fixed f.o.b. price of
uS25 per lb. in 1975. This compares very favorably with the previous renegotiated
price of US14 per lb. at the end of 1974.

8.        The good prospects for sugar exports 'in the near future will provide
Guyana with an opportunity to build up its international reserves from the low
levels to which they fell in 1973. Central government finances should also be
strengthened during the next two years because export earnings I'rom sugar are
subject to high marginal tax rates. In the longer run, however, sugar prices may
fall back to their 1972 level in real terms. It is of prime importance, therefore,
that Guyana should prepare itself for this eventuality, and utilize the additional
resources from sugar in the attainment of longer term growth targets. The success
of the public sector in effectively mobilizing and managing the necessary invest
ment resources will largely determine the course of growth over the medium-term.
A sustained level of public sector savings equivalent to 5% of GDP is needed to
finance an investment program sufficient to move the economy on to a 5% growth
path. High sugar prices should enable this target to be achieved with relative
ease in the next one or two years. Beyond that, however, it is unlikely that an
adequate level of public sector savings can be maintained unless considerable
restraint is exercised over the growth of government current expenditures. Efficient
operation of public enterprises and pursuit of proper pricing policies will be
other crucial determinants of 'the rate of public sector savings.
                                     - 3 

9.        The rate of development that Guyana is likely to realize over the
medium-term will depend heavily on its ability to increase the production and
export of its key commodities -- bauxite, sugar and rice, which account for
30% of GDP and 85% of exports. Bauxite production has fallen in recent years,
partly because of a weak market demand and partly due to a lack of product
diversity (Le., inadequate capacity for calcined bauxite production). Calcined
bauxite capacity will increase substantially when the new investments being
made by the government are completed. Production of sugar and rice will certainly
be stimulated by higher prices, but a major effort must be made to overcome the
basic structural deficiencies of the agricultural sector in order that the supply
of these commodities may respond adequately to price incentives. There is a need
for more investment in land improvement and associated infrastructure, as well as
for expansion of credit facilities and agricultural extension facilities. In
this respect, the supply of trained personnel in agriculture and other fields is
an important constraint which can only be overcome by strengthening technical
education and training.
10.        The government's Second 5-Year Development Plan, 1972-76(which
is currently being revised and updated to 1980) outlines a fairly ambitious
public sector program aimed at accelerating the annual real rate of growth of GDP
to 8.5% and reducing unemployment from about 15% to about 5% by the end of the
period. The allocation of public investment gives high priority to transport and
communications (24.5%), manufacturing and power (16.3%), and agriculture (15.8%).
For a variety of reasons, including shortages of skilled manpower and limited
domestic savings, however, it is not likely that the plan objectives as a whole
will be attained during the plan period. In view of the present prospects for
domestic and external financing, a capital investment program of US$430 million
in constant 1972 dollars, about 25% lower than the planned level, with shares of
public and private sectors amounting to US$275 million and US$155 million respec
tively, may be a more realistic target for the government to pursue. The real
rate of growth during the Plan period :m.ay not exceed 5% per annum and unemployment
may still remain well above the 5% target. Nevertheless, a real growth rate of
5% in GDP and a reduction in the unemployment rate would represent significant
improvements over the past record. Among the sources of public sector financing
for the Second DeVelopment Plan, current account surpluses may account for about
23%, net domestic borrowing from non-bank institutions such as the National
Insurance Fund for 2Q%,other danestic borrowing for 1.2%, and net external borrow
ing for a further 45%. During the preceding 5-year period, net external borrowing
accounted for about 40% of the total financing. The greater role of external
financing under the current 5-year plan is justified in the context of substantially
higher development efforts and the more vigorous mobilization of domestic resources.

11.        The education project, for which a development credit and loan are recom
mended in this report,would relate to the government's continuing development effort
beyond 1976--the year in which substantial disbursements are projected to begin. In
the five-y.ear period following the 1972-76 Second Development Plan, a public sector
investment program of some US$350 million in constant 1972 dollars would be
required in order that an annual growth rate of 5% be achieved. Of this total
program, some 60% (U5$210 million) is likely to be of a project nature in which
international financial agencies may participate, and within this amount foreign
exchange costs would account for about u5$85 million. This amounts to about
                                   - 4

25% of the total public sector investment program. If external lenders were
to confine their financing to only the foreign exchange component of public
investment projects, it would be insufficient to meet the overall financial
needs of the program. Financing from domestic sources will be greater than
under the Second Development Plan, but will still account for no more than
65% of total financing needs. Additional domestic sources of financing would
be difficult to find in view of the fact that current fiscal revenues are
already projected at a high 35% of GDP. It would appear, therefore, that the
viability of the public sector investment program, upon which hinges the over
all development effort, will depend upon external financing being extended to
cover a reasonable part of local project costs. As an overall target, the
government should aim at a level of external borrowing sufficient to finance
35% of the public sector investment program during the later years of the
present decade.
12.       The longer term economic prospects of Guyana are favorable, as
discussed in the Bank's economic report. There should be considerable scope
for development of the country's traditional exports. A substantial increase
in the acreage under sugar and rice is planned. Considerable expansion in
the capacity for producing calcined bauxite is also envisaged. Oppo rlunities
exist for greater diversi1cat1on in the agricultural sector both for import
substitution and for export. Government policy is aimed at increasing the out
put of fruits, vegetables and livestock. Imports of a wide range of agricultural
commodities were banned at the end of 1971 to stimulate local production and to
deflect consumer tastes towards domestic products. The country's forestry and
fishery resources can be more effectively exploited. The existence of an adverse
trade balance in forestry products, despite the fact that over 80% of the country's
total land area is under forests, emphasizes the need to develop forestry. Export
prospects for shrimp and fish are good, especially since other members of the
Caribbean Community (CARlCOK) have a deficit in these products. A greater rate
of industrial development is also possible, provided foreign capital and exper
tise can be attracted to participate in development projects in Guyana and
policies to enable the country to compete successfully with the industrially
more developed CARICOM countries are pursued. Thus, with appropriate develop
ment strategy, including sound fiscal and monetary policies, Guyana should be
able to improve its economic development performance significantly over the
longer term.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Guyana has received considerable aid on concessionary terms in the past
from bilateral donors. In its own lending activities, the Bank has taken into
account the efforts of other multilateral and bilateral agencies, notably the
UNDP, USAID, the United Kingdom (ODM), and Canada (CIDA).   Guyana is not a
member of the OAS or, as yet, IDB. USAID's program has been extensive, including
road construction, water and sewerage projects, and agricultural assistance,
mainly through the construction of a rice research station and six rice drying
and storage installations. The Bank and USAID cooperated in the Tapakuma
irrigation and drainage rehabilitation and development scheme (Loan No. l016-GUA)
and are cooperating in a similar project for the Black Bush Polder area. USAID
financed consultants prepared the feasibility study for Tapakuma and are
                                     - 5


completing the feasibility study for Black Bush Polder. The Bank cooperation
with CIDA is in the fields of education, forestry, and power. CIDA also financed
a forestry products marketing study which, together with a feasibility study by
a private Canadian concern, led to the Bank appraisal of a forestry project in
February, 1914. CIDA joined with the Bank and ODM in a loan to the Guyana
Electricity Corporation in FY1913. In view of Guyana's increased external capital
requirements, there will be a greater need for aid coordination.
14.       Past loans and grants by sector from the principal aid agencies are
summarized below for the period 1966-1913 (in US$ million):
                      IBRD             USAID                        Total    Percentage

Transport                                25.0   6.0                  35.4      (20.2)
Power, communica
  tions                6.0
                                          2.6
                                                4.0     25.5    Y    35.5      (20.3)
Water, sewerage                                 2.3                   4.9      ( 2.8)
Sea defense           10.4                1.0            1.2         18.6      (10.6)
Education              2.9     2.9        0.6    3.4     0.2         10.0      ( 5.1)
Agriculture                    2.2       14.6            2.6         19.4      (11.1)
Other                                    13.3   ~       32.9         21 4     (29.3)
        Total         19.3               51.1   20.9    68.4        115.2

        Percentage   (11.0)   (5.4)    (32.6)   (11.9) (39.1)                 (100.0%)
17 Includes grants of US$18.6 million, based on disbursement estimates.
g; Private bank loans and suppliers' credits guaranteed by government
   of Guyana.

15.       It is estimated that some US$30 million annually in inflows of long-
term capital to the public sector in Guyana would be called for during the Second
Development Plan period. Until recently, a considerable proportion of Guyana's
capital requirements from abroad came on highly concessionary terms. As a result,
the debt service ratio remained fairly moderate. The government borrowed in the
Eurodollar market for the first time in 1913, and also placed increased reliance
on suppliers' credits. It would appear, however, that the projected higher
receipts from exports will enable Guyana to build up foreign exchange reserves
to a reasonable level without further resort to the Eurodollar market. The
external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1913 amounted to
US$158 million. The service charges on this debt amounted to 6.2% of the export
proceeds and were expected to rise to 6.5% by 1919. Since exports account for
over one-half of Guyana's GNP, a debt service ratio of this magnitude is quite
high. With proper debt management, however, it should not prove to be overly
burdensome. Guyana, While remaining creditworthy for Bank and other conventional
long term lending, would also benefit from concessionary aid in order to ease its
debt servicing problem. Extended amortization periods on conventional loans are
also justified. It is estimated that the Bank Group's share in Guyana's projected
debt may increase from 3% in 1912 to 14% in 1979, and the Bank Group share in debt
service would rise from 4% to 13% over the same period.
                                   - 6 

                  PART II - BANK GROUP OPmATIONS IN GUYANA
16.        The first Bank loan to then British Guiana was US$1 .3 million in 1961
for agricultural credit. The loan has been repaid in full. Since independence,
Guyana has received from the Bank Group loans and credi t.9 totalling US$41 .7 mil
lion, US$32.2 million from the Bank and US$9.5 million from IDA. The proposed
developnent credit and loan would be the eighth Bank Group opera tion since FYI 969
and would be the only lending in rn 975. Infrastructure (sea defense, highways,
and power projects) accounted for 50% of the Bank Group's past lending, education
for 1 4%, and agricul ture and lives tock for 36%. There have been no IFC opera tions
in Guyana and no investments are at present being considered. While some delays
occurred in the early stages of the execution of the sea defense and education
projects, performance has improved recently. There remain some problems in
implementing the livestock and highway projects. In the case of the power project,
the project entity has not attained the covenanted rate of return specified in
the Bank's loan agreement (10%) and has had serious cost overruns (in excess of
87% in engineering work). Annex II contains a summary sta tement of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of January 31,1975, with notes on the status of on-going projects.
17. .     The Bank Group activities in Guyana are designed to meet part of the
country's capital financing and technical assistance requirements and to support
appropriate developmental policies which will contribute to a higher rate of
economic growth. Our assistance is concentratedon the development of agriculture
and natural resources, where Guyana has a comparative advantage, directly through
agricultural projects and indirectly through projects such as transport and
education which s~port agricultural and resource development. The objective is
to promote agricultural diversification, help increase employment and raise
incomes in the rural areas and stimulate agricultural exports. Following the
Tapakuma project, which was approved by the Board in June 1974, a second major
irrigation and drainage project is planned in the Black Bush Polder area to
promote diversified crop production, including rice cultivation. A forestry
project would support a program to process and market tropical hardwoods of a
forest area of some 550,000 acres in central Guyana; it would also help open up
the interior and increase the country's exports. Additional foreign exchange
earnings would be derived from a proposed fisheries project, involving both the
private and public sectors, which would provide for a fish processing plant and
fish distribution facilities. It would also be an objective, through technical
assistance components in these projects, to help strengthen the government agencies
working in the agricultural sector. A water supply and sewerage project, for which
a USAID-financed feasibility study is in progress, would help alleviate a serious
sewage disposal problem in New Amsterdam and Georgetown and provide technical
support. The Bank is Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed hydroelectric power
survey which could lead to the development of low-cost electricity for aluminum
smelting in Guyana. The Bank is also Executing Agency for UNDP-financed studies
of water transport, airfield improvements in the interior and access roads to
coastal agricultural areas. Finally, we propose to continue our association with
the education sector through the second education project now before you. The
project would help remedy existing deficiencies in the system and alleviate the
shortage of skilled and technical manpower.
18.       In view of Guyana's improved prospect.9, and the heavy dellJlnds upon IDA
resources from poorer countries, we do not plan further IDA assistance to Guyana
beyond that proposed in the presel-;t project.
                                    7


                       PART III - EDUCATION IN GUYANA
The Education System

19.       The formal education system of Guyana consists of six years of pri
mary education, extended for three more years (IItopS" of primary) in most of the
schools; five years of secondary education; and two to five years of post
secondary or higher education. The Ministry of Education has the major responsi
bility for all public education institutions except tor the autonomous UniverSity
of Guyana and the Guyana School of Agriculture. The education laws, which date
from 1940, are out of date and inadequate to respond fully to the present needs.
Most nontorma1 education and training activities are under the control of minis
tries other than the Ministry of Education.

PrimaFY and Secondary Education
20.        Since 1963, the government has been placing increased emphasis on the
expansion of educational opportunities, particularly at the secondary level.
Virtually all (92%) primary school-age children are enrolled and more than half
(,3%) of the children between ages 12 and 18 receive some form of secondary
education.
21 .      The expansion of enrollments in recent years has not been accompanied
by improvement in the quality of education. Only about 10% of primary school
graduates pass the examination for entrance to the traditional secondary schools
(grades 7-11); these secondary schools offer an academic curriculum geared to
preparation for higher education. The 90% who fail to enter the secondary
schools remain in the "tops" of the primary schools, where they receive only an
extended primary education which prepares them little for further stu~ or
employment. Well over half of the teachers in the "tops" are inadequately trained
by government standards.
22.       There were 390 primary schools in Guyana in 1913. Of these, 221 (,8%)
were owned by denominational organizations; but the government financed the full
operating costs. Private secondary schools are not regulated by the government
and the Ministry of Education has no accurate statistics on their numbers or
enrollments. For the public secondary schools and the primary "tops II , the 1913
enrollments were about 24,000 and 38,000 students, respectively.
Teacher Training
23.       Primary teacher training consists of a two-year post-secondary course
provided in a new1y-comp1eted building financed under the first Bank/IDA education
project. Although the college will double its annual output to 330 teachers by
1976, it will not be able to satisfY the demand for primary teachers unless the
Government increases the supply of secondary school teachers, for trained primary
teachers are being drained into the expanding secondary education system, which
has a serious shortage of trained teachers. The annual output of about 30
teachers from the expanded Secondary Teachers' Training College will meet only
some 20% of the annual requirements. A major constraint to training an adequate
number of secondary teachers is the lack of proper facilities. The college is
                                 -   8


temporarily housed in an old building which is unsatisfactory and unsuitable for
expansion or remodelling. There is no institution that provides systematic
training for the teaching of practical subjects such as science, agriculture,
industrial arts and home economics.
Technical and Vocational Education

24.       The Georgetown Technical Institute (GTI) produces 85% of the technicians
and craftsmen who receive diplomas in GU7ana each year. GTI also has the major
role in upgrading the skills of employed workers. Each year, 150-200 students
obtain craftsman certificates from GTI and a comparable number complete part-time
courses. GTI's present courses are geared to British syllabi and examinations,
which are not well-suited for Guyana's requirements. Some of the shortcomings in
the courses also stem from a lack of close liaison with employers. The present
buildings and most of GTI's equipment need to be replaced. These shortcomings,
together with the heavy emigration of students who receive technical certificates,
indicate the need for the government to undertake an in-depth study of vocational
and technical education in Guyana.
25.       Agricultural subjects are included in the curricula of a large number
of primary and secondary schools. At the post-secondary level, agricultural
training is offered to about 120 students at the Guyana School of Agriculture.
The school, however, lacks adequate staff, boarding places, workshops and dairy
sheds. The curriculum is overly academic and lacks the practical orientation
needed by sub-professional level personnel in Guyana. The school at present
offers certificate-level (grades 10-11) and diploma-level (grades 12-13) courses.
No University-level education in agriculture is available in Guyana, and although
scholarships have been set up to enable Guyanese to study at overseas universities,
few training places have been available to them in specialized fields such as
veterinary science. The manpower requirements in these specialized fields are
small and no country in the Caribbean region can afford to build and operate a
training center to satisty its own requirements alone.
26.        Nonformal Education and Trainin~: Nonformal education and training pro
grana have thus  far had little impact on t e economic li.fe in Guyana. There is no
consistency or coordination between the formal and nonformal programs in industrial
training. Two technical institutes operate part-time and evening courses for
about 220 trainees at the technician level and some 1,000 at the craftsman level.
These courses upgrade the skills of workers. Small-scale apprenticeShip schemes
are und er way in many small firms, under the control of the Ministry of Labor,
with an intake of about 200 per year. Two major industries, sugar and alumina/
bauxite, conduct their own on-the-job training programs. The government's In
dustrial Training Center, established with USAID assistance, represents a
significant departure from traditional education; however, its limited program,
with an annual output of 100-150 stUdents, has less impact on employment and
the econornlf than the other programs.

27.       There is little systematic training available for farmers or for agri
cultural extension agents. Programs are under way to motivate and organize
farmers and workers for cooperatives and to train leaders and managers for these
cooperatives, but so far they have had little impact. The extension service is
                                 -   9


unable to perform effectively, being understaffed with inadequately trained
agents. Its communications unit, for example, which is responsible for pro
ducing extension materials and operating radio programs, lacks the necessary
facilities and equipment to operate effectively.
Education Development Strategy

 28.      As part of its education development strategy, the government intends
to reorient the education system to offer practical subjects and skills, in
addition to traditional academic attainments. Towards this end, multilateral
secondary schools are being established with diversified curricula and workshops,
laboratories and homecraft rooms; the first Bank/lDA education project is helping
in this effort. The 63 community secondary schools which the government now
plans to set up during the next ten years will offer relevant education for some
37,000 students at the "tops" level of primary schools; after school hours, they
will also serve the needs of adults and out-of-school youth, becoming the focal
point for nonformal education and training in each community. The ultimate
objective is to have only two types of secondary schools--multilateral and com
munity--with a built-in s,ystem of transfer between them. The government intends
to implement the plan in two five-year phases. In the first phase, 30 community
secondary schools will be established to accommodate some 17,400 students,
leaving about 40% of secondary-level students in the II tops" of primary schools,
compared with the present 75%. This will lead to a substantial increase in the
demand for trained secondary school teachers, both for academic and technical
subjects and for supervisory staff, which the government plans to meet by
imprOving the facilities of the Secondary Teachers' Training College and by con
ducting a program for the training of technical subject teachers in cooperation
with other teaching institutions specializing in the fields of agriculture,
technology and home economics.
29.       The government also plans to strengthen agricultural education and
training. To this end, it will expand and improve the facilities of the Guyana
School of Agriculture, the country1s only agricultural education institution at
the post-secondar,y level, and establish rural training centers which would train
rural youth, women and farmers at a lower cost than at present. To meet manpower
requirements in specialized fields, the government plans to collaborate with
other Caribbean countries in establishing regional training centers such as the
program for training animal health technicians. In the field of vocational and
technical education, the government has established a tripartite advisory
council, consisting of representatives from the government, employers and workers,
for vocational and technical education,under the Minister of Education
30.       The government1s education development strategy, as outlined above, is
consistent with the socio-economic objectives of the Second Development Plan,
although the strategy may be over-ambitious in some of its targets. The programs
for establishing community secondary schools and new multilateral schools may be
delayed due to a lack of qualified teachers. The financial constraints must
also be taken into account. Experience may show that the proposed rates of ex
pansion of the rural training centers as well as of the community secondary
schools are too fast for the country to attain. Policies and programs for training
manpower needed in the directly-productive sectors such as agriculture and live
stock warrant priority and should be supported.
                                 -   10 



Education Finance
31       Public education is free to the student from the primary through the
secondary level. Dropout rates are low. Expenditures for both of these levels
account for more than 80% of government recurrent expenditures on education.
Public education is the largest single element in the government's recurrent
expenditure. It is estimated that total government expenditures (current and
capital) for education in 1974 amounted to about G$53 million, or 5.8% of GDP.
On a per capita basis, government education expenditures rose from US$21
in 1969 to about US$35 in 1974 (in 1974 prices).   Yet, this expenditure
accounted for only 14-15% of the government's budget during the past five years
despite the sharp per capita increase (which reflects the rapid growth of the
public sector in Guyana).
32.       The financial difficulties in 1973 forced the government during 1974
to reconsider its development priorities and to give added urgency to more
immediate~ productive projects.    Accordingly, the education sector's share of
government capital expenditure is not likely to exceed 10% during the next five
years. This means that a maximum of about 08$8.5 million would be allocated
each year for investment in the education sector. The government has to adjust
the implementation of its education development program, particular~ for the
reform of secondar.y education, to the new pattern of priorities. The proposed
project would require on the average an investment of about US$5 million annual~,
which would be well wi thin the limits of the government' s financial plans.
33.       The government's strategy for developing education and training stresses
improvement in the quality of education and technical training in the industrial
and agricultural fields. Increases in current expenditures per student are
inevitable. However, since the education development strategy also has built-in
efficiency factors--such as a more economical class size, a reasonable student/
teacher ratio and a heavy use of nonformal training schemes--the overall increase
in recurrent expenditures will not be intolera.ble. The proposed Bank/IDA project
would generate new annual recurrent expenditures of about US$2. 7 million, which
would constitute approximate~ 8% of the projected total recurrent expenditure on
education in 1981. Since many of the institutions included in the project already
exist, the project's recurrent cost will not constitute an undue burden on the
government.

                            PART !.V ... THE PROJEX:T
34.       A report entitled uAppraisal of a Second Education Project in Guyana"
(No. 584a-GUA, dated April 3, 1975) is being circulated separately to the Execu
tive Directors. The main features of the proposed lending and the proj ect are
summarized in Annex III. Initial discussions in September 1973 with the govern
ment concerning a second education project were based on a UNESCO project identifi
cation report of January 1973. The project was prepared by the government in
May 1974 with UNESCO's assistance and appraised in May-June 1974. Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 13 to 17, 1975. The government delegation
was led by Mr. Winston King, Economic Adviser, Ministr.y of Economic Development.
                                    11 


Project Description

35.       The main objective of the project is to assist the government in its
effort to reshape the education S,Ystem so that it will be more responsive to
the development requirements of Guyana. It is designed to increase the practical
content of secondary level curricula, to improve opportunities for nonformal edu
cation and training for the existing work force and to alleviate the shortages of
skilled manpower in agriculture and other productive sectors.

36.       More specifically the project would improve secondary education and
strengthen agricultural education and training by enabling the government to:
      a.  introduce a pilot program of new community secondary schools 

          that would offer the majority of primary school graduates a 

          more meaningful and employment-oriented education program; 


      b.  extend the diversified curriculum introduced in the multi 

          lateral secondary schools under the first Bank/IDA project 

          to 10 existing secondary schools; 


      c.  provide new facilities for secondary teacher training; and

      d.  expand both formal and nonformal training opportunities for 

          farmers, rural residents, extension workers, animal health 

          technicians and other agricultural technicians. 



37.       The project would assist in establishing seven pilot community
secondary schools for secondary-level students who are presently in the "tops" of
primary schools {para. 2l}. These schools would offer during the first three
years a balanced general education, including practical subjects that would com
prise 30% of the curriculum, and during the next year short-term vocational
training courses in one or two selected skill trades based on the occupational
needs of each community. These schools, each with about 640 student places,
would have practical subject teaching facilities such as workshops, laboratories
and homecraft rooms. When merited, students in the community schools would be
allowed to transfer to regular secondary schools. Transfer would be allowed
only once, at the end of the third year, up to which point the core courses would
be common to both the community and the multilateral secondary .schools. The com
munity schools would also serve the training needs of adults and out-of-school
youths after school hours, thus becoming each community's focal point for non
formal education and training.
38.       These seven pilot community secondary schools would replace the "tops"
of about 25 of the 373 primary schools which now have "tops", producing in due
course about 1,000 graduates annually. Establishment of these new schools would
enable the primary schools to improve the quality and efficiency of their education
by alleviating existing overcrowded conditions. The additional teaching staff
required in these schools would be supplied by the Teachers' Training College, also
to be constructed under the proposed project.
                                 -   12 


39.       The project would extend the diversified multilateral school curricu
lum introduced in the Bank's first education project to 10 existing multilateral
secondary schools, providing practical-subject teaching facilities comprising 19
workshops, 19 laboratories and 19 homecraft rooms. These facilities would also
allow an increase of about 1,680 in enrollments and would serve a total enrollment
of 6,630 students, which is about one-fourth of total secondary school enrol~ent.
The schools to be assisted, together with the six new multilateral schools being
financed under the first Bank/IDA proj ect, are selected with a view to keeping a
balance among various ethnic groups in the country in their access to these
improved facilities. Two of the schools would be located in Amerindian settlements
in the interior; hence, four staff houses would be provided. Some workshops and
laboratories in five of the schools would house equipment recently provided by
CIDA.
40.       The project would provide for construction of a new Secondary Teachers'
Training College with a capacity of 450 student places to produce 150 trained
teachers annually. Together With the annual output of 20-30 univerSity graduates,
this would ensure an adequate supply of secondary school teachers. The college
would also develop a cooperative program with existing institutions in the fields
of agriculture, technology and home economics. In addition to the three-year
pre-service training course, the college would also provide s.ystematic in-service
training to upgrade the quality of existing secondary school teachers.
41.       The project would provide for expansion and improvement of the facilities
of the Ggyana School of Agriculture to enable it to almost double its capacity
from 128 to 216 stUdent places. This would help overcome the scarcity of agricul
tural technicians and teachers by offering a larger applied and practical course
content. The school would produce about 105 technicians annually, about half of
whom would be absorbed by the extension service and the rest by other governmemtal
agencies and by the private sector. The school would also offer courses in basic
science and animal husbandry for the proposed Caribbean Regional Center for the
training of animal health technicians (para. LL).
42.       The project would provide for establishment of an In-5ervice Training
and Communications Center in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Center would train
annually about 400 agricultural officers in 1-2 week courses in extension tech
niques and advanced agricultural technology (ct. para. 45). The Center would also
absorb the existing Agricultural Co~n1cations Unit, expanding the Unit's office
space, equipment and other facilities.
43.       The project would provide for the construction and equipping of six
new rural training centers in areas where the government is developing major
agricultural projects. Each center, except for one, would have, in addition to
boarding facilities, a classroom for 36 trainees, two staff houses, either a
workshop or home economics laboratory, and a demonstration farm. Two of the six
centers would be provided with equipment to help farmers clear and cultivate
forest land and open up new arable land. The centers would offer a variety of
1-2 week courses in commercial farming, organization of cooperatives, rural con
struction, nutrition, home economics and child care. The six centers altogether
                                      13 



would accommodate a total of about 8,100 rural people annually. The centers
would also provide senior students of the Guyana School of Agriculture with field
training and would become focal points for farmers' meetings and for exchanging
information on all aspects of development activity in the areas they serve. The
teaching staff would be provided mainly by the agricultural and livestock ex
tension staff, who would also select the trainees and follow up on their training
in the field.

44.       The project would provide for establishment of a Caribbean Regional
Center for the Training of Animal Health Technicians. Staffed by qualified
veterinarians in the Caribbean region, it would offer a two-year course in
animal health to train technicians to work under the supervision of qualified
veterinarians. It would have a capacity for about 72 stUdents and would be
provided with a staff house and boarding facilities for all stUdents. The Center
would be located adjacent to the Guyana School of Agriculture in order to use the
latter's basic science courses and existing amenities. Equipment and technical
assistance necessary for the Center's development during the initial stage (1974
75) is being provided under a UNDP grant. The participating countries in the
Caribbean would benefit from the economies of scale in producing technicians who
would replace qualified professionals used in subprofessional work. The Center
would meet the basic requirements for veterinarian services at a lower cost and
make more effective use of the limited number of qualified veterinarians in each
country. While Guyana would be responsible for financing the Center's physical faci
lities, other participating governments in the Caribbean would share in the operating
costs. A condition of credit and loan disbursement (see Section 2.02 in both the
Loan and Credit Agreements) for the Center would be that other Caribbean countries
undertake to US.9 p and ,share the o'Oerating costs of.,.. not less than 50 student places.
45.        Technical Assistance. The project would provide for seven man-years
of specialist services and 51 man-years of fellowships. The specialists would
assist the government in: (i) drawing up a new education law and programming
the educational reform measures; (ii) developing curricula for the Georgetown
Technical Institute and the Guyana School of Agriculture, and strengthening the
liaison between these institutions and employers; and (iii) operating the rural
training centers and the Agricultural Extension In-Service Training and Com
munications Center. The fellowships would be provided mainly to upgrade the
quality of supervisory and teaching staff for practical subjects in the project
insti tutions.
46.       Provision would be made for a study to assess the effectiveness of
the vocational and technical education and training system and to identify
priorities for the long-term investment in education and training in these fields
(para.24). The study would give particular attention to the causes and charac
teristics of migration of technically trained manpower, its impact on the labor
market and manpower requirements in Guyana, and any education factors involved in
emigration. It would also explore new measures to meet domestic manpower needs
and to keep skilled workers from migrating to other countries.
Project Costs and Financing

47.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes but including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at US$18.9 million, of which US$9.4 million or
                                            14 


50% represents the estimated foreign exchange costs. Construction costs make up
66% of the total cost; professional services, 8%; furniture and equipment, 19%.;
technical assistance, 4%; and the study and project administration, 3%. The
proposed development credit and loan would finance 64% of the total project costs
(US$9.4 million of foreign exchange and U5$2.6 million equivalent of local costs).
The balance of the project costs would be borne by the government. Base cost
estimates are expressed in December 1974 prices. Total contingencies amount to
48% of the base cost. The development credit and loan would cover about 27% of
the local costs; paragraph 11 above discusses the justification for some local
cost financing in Guyana.

Project Administration

48.       The Project Unit, which was established within the Ministry of Education
for the first Bank/IDA project, has been performing satisfactorily and would be
the implementing agency for the proposed project. Under a Project Director, it
would be responsible for overall management, coordination with other ministries
and parties involved in the project and liaison with the Bank. The Unit would
be strengthened by the appointment of a Project Architect. The Project Educator
in the first education project would continue his duties under the second pro
ject but he would also assume other administrative duties assigned to him by the
Project Director. The Procurement Officer and Accountant positions would be
retained. These are all full-time positions. The Project Director, while re
porting to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education, would be empowered
to make all day-to-day decisions related to the operation of the Project Unit and
would at all times have direct access to the Minister of Education and to the
Minister of Agriculture.

49.       The Ministry of Agriculture and the Guyana School of Agriculture, also
involved in the project, would each designate senior officials to implement the
technical aspects of the project components related to them and to maintain
liaison with the Project Unit. Extension of the services of the Project Director
for the first project and appointment of the Project Architect and the liaison
officers, acceptable to the Bank and the Association, would be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan and credit. Assurances have been obtained from the
government that it will select sites acceptable to the Bank for the community
schools at an early date in order to avoid delays in project implementation
(Section 3.05 (v) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft Credit
Agreement) 

Procurement and Disbursement

50.        Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Since most civil works are of small size,
scattered throughout the country, foreign contractors are not expected to be inter
ested, but they would not be precluded from bidding. Contracts for furniture and
equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines. An exception would be made for furniture and
equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least u5$5,000 each; these
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with local procurement procedures. Procurement under these pro
ceduros wO~lld not, in t".gg:-egatc, exceed rJs;t~'!:) ~ COO eqlL-lyu2_ent or 1 cr.t of
the tota~_ cost 0:::' fUJ'ni t.u.:'e;).rd eq Ll~Lp!'1ent. Lk>nes t:L,.: and vt.L:C..r CAP.ICOM Member
                                     15 


countries' manufacturers would receive preferential treatment in bid evaluations.
The preferential margin for domestic manufacturers would be limited to 15% of
c.i.f. costs of imports or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Suppliers in the CARICOM countries other than Guyana would be accorded preference
equal to 15% of the CIF price or to the difference in tariff between CARICOM and
external suppliers, whichever is lower.
51.       The credit and loan would be disbursed in five years, disbursement
under the credit preceeding disbursement under the loan. An amount of up to
US$300,000 would finance retroactively expenditures incurred after July 1, 1974
for professional services, project administration, and technical assistance
required to begin implementation of the project. The disbursement schedule
for the proposed credit and loan is given in Annex III.

Justification
52.        Guyana's overall development effort is seriously impeded by its
inadequate capacity to implement development projects, particularly in fields
such as agriculture and the exploitation of natural resources in which Guyana
has a comparative advantage. A serious lack of managerial and technical skills
at all levels, both in the public and private sectors, has been a major reason
for delays in project implementation, of which the Bank/lDA projects have also
had their share (Annex II). The project is intended to assist in alleviating
this problem through expanded technical and vocational training and improved
facilities for nonformal education. The proposed multilateral schools and
community secondary schools should provide the necessary base for the development
of skills needed in the future. The proposed project is of high priority for
Guyana at this time and will complement the Bank Group's lending operations in
other sectors of the economy.
                  PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between Guyana and the Bank, the draft Report
of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between Guyana and
the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the texts of the
Resolutions approving the proposed development credit and loan are being distrib
uted to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit and the proposed
loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
                         PART VI - RECOMMllNDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed development
credit and loan.



                                             Robert S. McNamara 

                                                President 


Attachments

April 3, 1975
                                                                                                                                              ANNEX I
                                                                                                                                                   Pogo 1 or 3 pogo_


                                                                             001III'IIl! Ill:!'! - GUYANA


                                                                                                                                      .!!!!ill!
                                                                        ~ion                        (lI1d-1912)
                                                                                                                                                           Per o2.ot arab!. laDd
                                                                                                                                      13)      L!.Jl,


                                                                                800m TNDIC!1'ORS
                                                                                                                                                   Reference Count1es
                                                                                                                                                                       Trinidad
                                                                                                                                     f!e.rbados
                                                                                                                                     1910
                                                                                                                                                          J$.III.8.1ca
                                                                                                                                                           !fl        &          T!!f2 *'
  OIlP I'SR cm:!'A US! (JTLAS BASIS)          .G:                                                                                    800      &             810     cl               970   cl
      DE.M:XiRAPh'IC 

        Crude Gtrth rate (per thousand)                                                        43                  38    ill.         22      ~               35    &
                 2~ ~
                                                                                                                                      2~
        crude death rate (per thousand)                                                        10                   7                                          7
        Infant IIOrtallty rata (per thousand live births)                                      49 L!!.             3B    ill.                 4."-           26     &                 35
        ute expectancy at b1.1'th tJ'Gars)                                                     61                  66                 71                     69                       68

        Or08$ reproduet.lon rate t:I                                                                              2.5                1.7                    2.5                      1.9
        Population growth rate       a                                                                            2.4    a.          0.2      L!.             6
                                                                                                                                                                   2k                1.B   a.
        Population growth rate - urban                                                                             10    a                                  1. 6    h
        Age sl,.rucl:are (percent.)

                                                                                                                                                                                      ll~
              0-14                                                                             L6                  Lh                 37                     L6
             15-6L                                                                             51                  53                 55                     49                       55 ah
           65 and over                                                                       J                      3                 8                       5                        L ah
        Age dependency ratio Lk                                                            1.0                    C.9               0.8                     1.0                      0.8
        F..eono'l"!ie dependency l"$.tio Lli.                                              1.7                    1.7               1.3                     1.6                      1.4
        Urban population a8 percent of total
        Famll), planning: No. of &ccapt01'S euJItUlative (tbous. J
                                                                                               16   tl.            30   a            56       L.i.           37    &                  12   d
                              No. at users (. of Ilarried WOllen)

  I'.lIPUllMENT 

  ~bor forOft (thousands)                                                                  175                                       90       Ll. 
         750~                     350 ~ 

             Percentage erqplo)'ed in agriculture                                           3L                                       16                     33 ah                     23 m
             Percentage unemployed                                                              8                                     8                   13-14 ah                    13    m


      INCO!IIl DIS1'RIBUTIOI! 

        "tn'cent or natION,l incollle received by hiShest S:C 

        Percent ot national tnooae rece:1ved by highest 2O;C
        Percent of national inco1OO received by lowest
        Percent of national inOOl!l!6 received b)' lowest Lq(
                                                                     2O!S
                                                                                            46 90f O
                                                                                            1
                                                                                             4 n 0
                                                                                            14 no
                                                                                                                                     20g
                                                                                                                                     Lh .' ak
                                                                                                                                      7  "ale 

                                                                                                                                     19 a ak 


  mSTRlBUTIOH OF LAND OWII&RSHIP 

   I ovnad by top 101 or OlotMIl'e                                                                                                 93.3 

        :c owned     by Sl'ISallest 10$ of owners                                                                                   1.2 

  IlEALT!! AIID NUTRITIOI!
        POjillatlon per Physician                                                                             4,)10               1,920 is               2,630                             ill.
        Population per nursing person
        PoJ:N.lation pel' hoepital bed 
                                                                                                              6,430
                                                                                                                210
                                                                                                                                  1,570 t.r.
                                                                                                                                    100 
                                                                                                                                                         1,720
                                                                                                                                                           2LO
                                                                                                                                                                   t.r.
                                                                                                                                                                                  2,320
                                                                                                                                                                                    360
                                                                                                                                                                                    230
                                                                                                                                                                                           :fi,a!
                                                                                                                                                                                            e
        Par capita calorie supply as _ of requiraenta /5                                      b!..
                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                          101                     92                                        103                       97
        hI' capita protein supply, total (grds per da-yr&
          Of wnich, animal and pulse
                                                                                           35 L!!.                "7 I.!!.
                                                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                     94
                                                                                                                                     73
                                                                                                                                     L6
                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                           v
                                                                                                                                                             56
                                                                                                                                                             29~
                                                                                                                                                                                      64
                                                                                                                                                                                      34   ~
        Death rsw 1-1. years       L1                                                                                               1.3        t            1.8 as.                 1.B
  lIneATION
  ~ /B primary I5cllool anrol.nt ratio
        Adjusted     Z!sec:ondar), school enroll_nt ratio
        Years of schooling provided, fil'st and aecond level
                                                                                          129
                                                                                           29
                                                                                           13
                                                                                                                  S2"
                                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                                    112
                                                                                                                                     75
                                                                                                                                     13
                                                                                                                                           a   t
                                                                                                                                                           110
                                                                                                                                                            22
                                                                                                                                                             12
                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                    110    L!:a
                                                                                                                                                                                      ~~ L!:a
        Vocational entoll쩸t SI5 _ or sec. 8chool enrollMent
        Adult li tel' acy r ate ~                                                          ~~
                                                                                                                   5    a..z          4iL.
                                                                                                                                     97              z        9Zk
                                                                                                                                                             66      t z
                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                                                                     90
                                                                                                                                                                                           L!:a
                                                                                                                                                                                           .1l..W
  HOUSING 

        .Aver.~ No. of persona pel' roolll, (urban)                                       1.7~            
                         l.O~
        Peroont of oC(l'I.lpied units Vit.hout piped vater 

        Access t.o electricity (as % of tot.al poJ:N.lation)                                                                         60~
                                                                                                                                     59       ab
                                                                                                                                                                                     68 f(:ad
                                                                                                                                                                                     66     vad
        Percent of 'tllr41 poJ:N.lation connected t.o electricity

  CONSUMPTIOII 

    RSdio feCllivsl'S pel' 1000 population                                                 65                           &

    Passenger Cars J'Bf ItXX) pop1lat.iOll                                                 18
                                                                                                               133
                                                                                                                25      I'd         L5B~
                                                                                                                                    95 8.
                                                                                                                                                           376
                                                                                                                                                            45    &...!&
                                                                                                                                                                                    287 ~,a.
                                                                                                                                                                                     75 d
    lI..1:ctric poller const:l1llption (kwh p. c.)                                        161                  477      Zi!         612       d          1,031    L2. . . . . .   lJ251.    d
    Newsprint consutl'lption p. c~ kg per ;yeal'                                          1.9                  0.9                 3.5         4.3            5.9
NotelS: Figures refer either to the late8t periods or to                                         account of snviroruaent&l teJl'lperature, bOdy veiibts, &lid 

the latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to. 
                                        distribut.ion by age ~ SiIIX of national populations. 

the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the lateet lears in prin                                   Ii      Protein standards (requirements) for all countriea 
as estab 

ciple to 1960 and 1970. 
                                                                        lished by USDA Economic Res~reh Service prOVide for 8 m1ni.rtrum
l!. The Per Capita GNP estimate ie at market prices for                                          allova.nce of 60 grams of total prowin per day, and. 20 grama ot
     ye ...rs other than 1960, calculated by the b8Jl'le convers1on                              anim.al and pulse prote1n .. of 'Which 10 grams should be ani..m.al
     technique as the 1.972 World .Bank Atlas.                                                   protein. These atandards are somewhat laver than thoae of 7S 

t1.. Average nUl.ber of' daughters per WOlll.l!ln of reproductive                                grams or tota.l protein and 23 grsma ot animal protein as an 

     age. 
                                                                                      average tor the world, proposed by t~.\O 1n the Third \k)rld Food
D.. Popu1.a.tion gro.,th rates are for the decades ending 1n                                     Survey.
        1960 Md 1970.                                                                    a       Some studies have euggested that crude death rste$ of children
.&.     Ratio of' popu.lation under 15 and 65 and over to popula                                 ages 1 through 4 may be used aa a first approximation indiIIX of
                                                                                                 malnutrition. 

        tion of ages 15-64 for age dependency ratio. and to labor
        force of ages 15-64 tor econondc dependency t'atio. 
                            cl.     Percentage enrolled. ot corresponding population of school ale
Li      FAD reference standards represent pbysiological n ..                                     as defined for eech oountl'Y. 

        quirements for n0!'2ll81 activity and hee.lth, taking 



             Cultivated area;      & 19n;           /c     Computed by applying to the 1970 figure the growth r&te of the GNP per canita in
             real terms r,Oft! 1960 to 1910;        "7!!
             met1"opolitan area and selected me.in towns;
                                                            19"12;    1.2.    1968;      L!.    1960-12;       a        Definition noe available;
                                                                  d. City of Georgetown end town of New AmesterdUlj LJ.. Bridgetown,
                                                                                                                                                              &         Kingston

             St~ Michael. Ch.rlst Church;          L!. Port of Spain, Amira borough and San Fernando town; IJ.. Those 15 ;years or older who
             either worked or SQught jobs actively during the twelve IIl()nths preceding census;            Lm. Estilllllte based on the results of
             a labor force sample survey;           Lu. 1955-)6; &. lbuseholdsj LA Excludes self-employed persons; Ls. Number on
             the register t not all working in the cCllntr,n         IL Personnel in govelTJJTlent services only; b.. 1967; Ll 1969;
             196L-66;         t:L 1966; I.::!.. 1961;
                            of t.eachers;
                                                           aGovernment maintained and aided schools only;                           a
                                                                                                                     Including data. on in-service
                                             L!. 15 years and over; L.!:! l1lf esti::n.ate; L!.2. Im,t.s nfer to living quarters; ~ Total;
             F~f-er         dwellings;     L!!. Number of receivers in use; L!l.. Including midldves; U&. Including government vehicles;
             l:st.il'l8.te;     ill.. 1965; fu 1969-70; /ak Inca. recipient.

       *'    Trinidad and Tobago is selected as an objective country since i t is one of the developed countries of the Caribbean
             (~OlrJllOn M.a.rJ..eL, and i t shares simil81" problems and development objectives as Guyana.



                                                                                                                                        !()        February 25, 1975
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANNEX I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ~age 2 of 3 pages




                                                                                                                 GUYANA _ l'lJOli<!IC DEVELO!'I!ENT DATA
                                                                                                                 (Amounts in millions of D.C;. dollars.)



                                                                           Actual                       Estimated              :ProJected            1960
                                                                                                                                                     ~                                                 1960                1970        1979
                                                               !ill:           m&         i2E               !2.U             121k      ill2.
                                                                                                                                                              Averase Annual Growth Bates                      As Percent of GDY
                                                                ~-Ye&r .Ave~efl at 1967-f:B Prices & Exehanse Rates
 NATIONAL ACCOUNTS

 Gross DOl'I'팫stic Product                                    212.1           263.9      262.8                              274        356           3.1           4.5        1.8          5.5        102.7               100.4         99.4
                                                                                                            259.7
 Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                                    4.4           -1.1                                                                                                                    -2.7                -0.4       -il....
 Gross Domestic IncOIl'te                                      ~               ~
                                                                                          ~
                                                                                          255.9
                                                                                                            .:ll.!t
                                                                                                            245.1
                                                                                                                             -"-
                                                                                                                             283
                                                                                                                                       -L
                                                                                                                                        360           3.3           3.9       1.8           5.0        illQ.1)'            1"1lO;"lj   100.0

                     IIFS)                                    132.2           133.3      125.7             130.1            142        184           S.B                      2.3          5.4                             50.7        51.1
                    rt capacity)                               126.S           138.6      129.9             102.9            147        194           3.2                      1.9          5.7                             53.2        53.9
                P                                             """j7'f          ~          --:u              27.'i            -:s -:ro-                                                                                      =2.'(j      :rs
 Consu,"llPtion Expenditures                                   176.1           203.5      206.8             223.4            210        262           4.9                     1.0           4.5         74.2                 77 .4       72.8
InveDtrnent         (Lncl. stocke)                              1;4.1           54.0          44.9           48.9             68         88           3.2                     6.0           5.3         24.0                20,5         24.4

                                                                                                                              73         98          -, .6                     4.8          6.0                             22.6         27.2
Domestic Savings                                                40.4            59.3          49.1           21. 7
                                                                                                                                                                                            6.0                             16.4         25.3
Natior.al Savings                                               27.1            43.2          39.1           15.7             68         91          -5.7                      9.8

MERCHANDISE TRAiJE                                                               Annua.l Data at Current Prices                                                                                                As Percent of Total


              Goods                                             11.7            48.,          43.1           50.2             68        131           0.7           8.8       10 3                      35.6                36.4         25.5
     lntenne.diate Goods (bxcI. fuels)                          23.2            27.1          34.7           45.6             62        III           7.4          3.2        20.0                      lS.9                20.3         21.5
     Fuel3 and Itelated M"-terials                               9.4            11.5          13.4           21.2             78        152           7.6          4.1        50.0         14.2          7.5                  8.6        29.5
       of which: Petroleum
                                                                41.2            46.3       51.2              56.8             69        121                                                                                              23.5
                               (elf)                           lOS:S           133.4      142.3             173.8            2~         515                                                                                             1ilQ.Q


             Products (excl. fuels)                             97.6           127.3      137.1             124.0            279        532           6.9           5.8       20.0         13.8         92.0                95.7        95.5
     Fuels and Related Materials
       of which: petroleum
                                                                                 5.7           B.8           1.W                                                                                                            ~             4.5
                                                                ...L..!.                                                                                                                                                                10O:U
                                                               103.3           133.0      l45.9             :35.7                                                                                                          100.0
                                                                 1.1             3.4          3.3                                                                                                                            2.6

 Merchll.;;",dise Trade Indices                                                     Average 1967-69 ... 100
   Ex?ort ?rice Index                                           92.8           107 .1    121.1      130.5                    230        312           3.7          2.9        16.9          6.3    

   Import Price Index                                           99.2           113.4      128.4             151. 7           214        308          0.6                      15.4          7.5    

   Terms of Trade Index                                         93.5            94.4       94.3              86.0            107        101           3.1 
                    1.2          1.3    

   Expor-:: Volume Index                                        89.6           104.6       98.3              84.8             98.9      140.8         2.4                      0.5          7.3    


 VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                              Annual Data at 1972 Prices and Exchange Rates                                     Average Annual Growth Rates                                 As Percent of Total

                                                                50.2            48.2          50.6           46.8                                    1.0          0.8                                   26.2                19.3
                                                                62.0            81.6          95.4           89.4                                    9.6           5.6                                   31.0                n.6
                                                                96.3           120.3     .llW               ill.J                                    Q,.!.                                               4l.B               48.1
                                                               20s:5        25O:T         257.2             157.4            27i.6      354.9        2.7                                   5'::'       IUll:1'T            100..0       .iL

                                                                                                                                                                                                              As Percent of GDP

                                                                50.4            72.4          73.4           70.1            106.9      117           4.9                                   1.9          21.4                28.9        33.0
                                                                50.6            63.9          70.0           93.0             89.4       99           8.4                                   2.0          18.2                25.5        28.0
                                                                0.2             8.5           3.4          -21.9             17.5       18                                                               3.2                 3.4         5.0
                                                                                11.0          14.9                                                                                                                            4.4
     Public Sector Investment                                   10.7            29.S          35.7           50.2             50.5       67.5                      23.0        6.2          6.0           6.4                11.9        19.0


 CU~RENTEXPENDITURE DY-TAILS                                  Actual                 Prelim.         EeL           ~                 DETAIL O!l
 (As % Total Ct.rt'ent gxpend. j                      1965              1970          1971 -         1972          1973              PUBLIC SECTOR

     Educa.tion                                       17.8            16.4             15.6       16.8             17.0
     Other Social Services                            15.2            14.0             12.2       11.8             11.2              Agricu1 ture                                          30.4            21.6
                                                       5.3             5.6             5.4         5.8              5.1              Industry and Mining
          Economic Services                            5.3             3.1             3.6         3.0                2 렁           Power                                                   6.6            4.7
     Administration and Defenae                       :lO.O           33.3            31.8        33.4             33.5              Transport and communications                                          24.9
                                                   31.7               27.6            31.4        29.2             30~
                                                                                                                     6               Other 

           Current Expenditures                   100.0              100.0           100.0       100.0           100.0               Total Expenditures 




                                                          1960.             1965렁       1970-          1973                        FINANCING 

                                   averaged data) 
       1965              1970         1975                                          public Sector Savings                               26.2
                                                                                                       121l!                                                                                               18.6
                                                                                                                                       Program aid counterpart 

     Average leOR                                          6.12                          6.73
                                                                            i:~~!1
                                                                                                        4.50                           Foreign Project Aid 

     Import                                                1.97                          Q.81           1.00                           Total Financing 

     Marginal          Savings Rare                       -0.12             0.41         0.28           0.26
     Marginal National Savings Rate                       -0.08             0.34         0.38           0.21


                                                                                  To tal Labor Force                                                         Va1ue~Added   er Worker   1                              Rates
                                                               Thouse.nds-                      i.. of Total                       1960-70 Growth
                                                       1960                1970                 1960             1970               (Percent)

                                                        59.8                57.4                 37.1               32.2              0.4             975.1          893.5
                                                        32.4                33.9                 20.1               19.1               0.5            2221. 3        2482.6
                                                        69.0                66.7                 42.8               48.7               2.3            1651.0         1406.6
                                                       I6l.2               176.0                100.0            100.0                l.O             1514.7         1446.2

11    Defense. Justice and pol ice
                                   ,
1/    Average. of years     1965~67    and 1970 being an unrepresentative year.

1/    Including U8$19.3 mUllan for sea and river defense.
                                                                                                                                                                                   Country                            II
                                                                                                                                                                              Latin America
                                                                                                                                                                                                    AIINEX I
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Page 3 of 3 pages   I


                                                                     GUYANA--BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT

                                                                     (Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)

                                                                 Actual                           E.t.                           Projeoted                                           Avg. Annual Growth Rate
                                               1969            1970     1971         1972          1973       1974    197 5    1976    197 7    1978          1979                         1974-1979

SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENT~
  Exports (inc I. NFS)                          147.2          151.9       163.7     166.8        156.1       3f4      357     399       451         520           597                        13.7
  Imports (incl. NFS)                           137.7          152.9       154.8     161.4        197.4       ~        349     394       443         500           567                        13.3
                                               """"9:5                                                                         -5-      8           20             30
  Resource Balance (X-M)                                       ----=-1.0   ----s:9   """"5.4      -41.3        ~o     7
  Interest (net)                                 -0.6           -1.8        -2.3      -2.9          -8.2       _8      -11     -12       -13         -14           -15                       13.4 

                                                                                                                                                                    -7                        3.1 

  Direct Investment Income
  Workers' Remittance 

                                                -19.9          -19.4       -14.4     -10.1          -4.8
                                                                                                               .,
                                                                                                               6       -6      -6        -6          -7

  Current Transfers (net)                          0.3            0.2         0.2                   4.1         '3         2     1

  Balance on Current Accounts                   -.!2:.r        ~            ~        ~            -50.1
                                                                                                              T       ---:s    -:rr     :rr         --=-r         +a 

  Private Direct Investment                       9.2             4.3       -4.6       -0.2         -1.1

  Official Capital Grants                         2.1             0.6        1.8        0.1             1.5    -'
 Public M & LT Loans 

   Disbursements                                 10.8           11.3        15.3      8.5           19.0       42      30       31        31          31            24                      -10.5 

   - Repaymen ts 
                                3.1            3.6         2.3     -1.8           -4.1       -8     -10      -12       -13         -14           -16                       14.8
 Net Disbursements                                D              D          13.0     ~            14.9        34      20       19       la       17               8                         :u:o
 Other M & LT Lo/l'RS 

   Disbursements 
                                1.1             2.1        6.5 

  -Repayments                                     2.8
 Net Disbursements                              -l.7
                                                                 b.!
                                                                  0.0
                                                                             b.Q

                                                                             4.5     ----,;:s     ~                                              
 Capital Transactions n.e. L                   -11.3              7.8       -0.9       2.4           7.8        7

 Change in Net Reserves                          4.7              1.6       -6.2      -6.2          22.2      -40     -12       -7        -7        -16            -16 


GP..ANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
  Official Grants & Grant-like loans              2.0             2.0        1.0        1.0         0.0                                                                     Actual                       Estimated
                                                                                                                     DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                  1969           1970     1971    1972         ~                  

 Publi c M & LT Loans 
                                                                                               Public Debt Out.& Dish.               63.7           71.9    143.5   151.9          I~J.5 

   IBRD                                           2.9                        5.4                     6.0 

      IDA 
                                       2.9             2.2                  4.4                            Interest oil Public Debt               2.6            2.9     3.1       5.7           5.1 

   Other                                                                                                              Repaymen.t.s on }lublic Debt           2.5            3.1     1.5       2.6           4.2 

   Other Multilateral                                                                                                 Total Public Debt Service              5.1            6.0     4.6       8.3           9.5 

   Governments                                  25.6             3.2       11. 2       9.0          13.5              Other Debt Service (net) 

   Suppliers                                                                                                          Total Debt Service (net) 

   Financial Ins ti tu tions                     7.3                                                14.9 

   Bonds                                                                                                             Burden on Export Earnings (%) 

   Public loans n.e.i.                                                     53~8Y 

                                                                                                                      Public Debt Service                    3.6            4.2     3.1     4.1             6.1
 Total Public M & Lt Loans                      38.7           s:4         7D.4      13.4         T4:5 
              T01t; Debt Service
                                               Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31.1973                                TD   ireet Invest.Inc.                17.1           17.0    11.9     9.6             8.3
 EXTERNAL DEBT                                Disbursed OnlJ::              Percent 

   World Bank                                         6.5                                  ---z;-;r-
                Average Terms of Public Debt
      IDA                                             2.2                                       1.4 

      Other Hul tilateral                                                                                             Int. as % Prior Year DO&D              4.8            4.5     4.3     4.0 
           3.5

      Covernments                                   78.1                                     49.6                     Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D            4.5            4.8     2.1     1.8             2.8

      Suppliers
                                                                                                                     IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed             0.1            0.3      2.0     4.0
      Financial Institutions                        12.6                                     8.0                      .,  as % Public Debt O&D              0.2            0.4      1.4     2.6 

                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.1
                                                   5;:~ ~/
      Bonds                                                                                  3.4
      Public Debts n.e.1.                                                                   33.5 
                        as % Public Debt Service          0.1            1.0      2.2     3.0             4.8 

      Total Public M&LT Debt                      i"5""f.""5                               100:0 

                                                                                                                     IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed              0.1            0.4      0.5     0.8             2.2
      Other H&.LT Debts                                                                                               " as % Public Debt O&D                0.2            0.6      0.3     0.5 
           1.4
      Short-term Debt (disb.only)                                                                                     " as % Public Debt Service                                    0.1     0.1             0.1 





!/     Public Debt Service only                                                                                                              Country Programs Department II
                                                                                                                                        Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
2.1     In respect of DEMBA nationalization
                                                                           ANNEX II
                                                                           Page 1 of 3


                             STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATrONS IN GUYANA



A.   statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (e.s of February 28, 1975)

Loan or
Credit                                                                    (US$ million)
  No.      Year       Borrower               Purpose                Amount (less cancellation)
                                                                                        Undis-
                                                                    Bank      IDA       bursed
     2/
 559-     1968      Guyana                 Sea Defense I            4.7
 583)     1969      Guyana                 Education                2.9                       1.4
 139)1/                                                                          29
 221      1970      GuYana                 Livestock                             2.2          2.0
 765      1971      Guyana                 Sea Defense II           5.4                       3.0
 301      1972      Guyana                 Highway                               4.4          3.3
 875      1973      Guyana Electricity
                      Corporation          Power                    6.0                       39
1016!!/   1974      Guyana                 Irrigation              12.9                      12:2
                   Total (net of cancellations)                    31.9          9.5         26.5
                   of which has been repaid                         0.1           
                   Total now outstanding                           31.8          93
                   Amount sold                          0.1
                   of which has been repaid             0.1
                   Total novi held by Bank and IDA
                                                        IT         31 .8         9.5     ~   .
                    Total undisbursed                              21 .2         5.3         26.5
     1/ Prior to ecchange rate adjustments. 

     2/ Loan fully disbursed. 

     3/   Credit fully disbursed
     ]/ Loan not yet effective. 

B.   Statement of IFC Investments    ias   of 'February 28,1975)
          There have been no IFC investments in Guyana.
                                                                       ANNEX II
                                                                       Page 20f 3

C.    POOJEr:TS IN   ~UTION   Jl
Ln. No. 583      Education Pro ect- US 2.9 Million Loan and US$2.9 Million
Cr. No. 139      Credit of January 31,19 9;
                 Closing Date: December 31, 1915
          The new premises for the primary teacher training college are in the
second year of utilization and construction of all project schools is expected
to be completed by May 191" about five months after the original closing date
of December 31, 1914. Delays in project execution resulted principally from
delays in appointing consultant architects and in awarding civil works' contracts
following opening of bids. Project implementation has since proceeded according
to the revised schedule. The delay has resulted in about a 2,% increase in
estimated project costs, which is borne by the Borrower. Procurement of furni
ture and equipment is progressing satisfactorily and in accordance with the
revised construction schedule. The Closing Date was extended to December 31,
191,.
Cr. No. 221      Livestock Pro 'ect U 2.2 Million Credit of November 21    1910
                 Closing Date: December 31,197
          Progress on the execution of this project has been much slower than
estimated at appraisal, due largely to difficulties in granting long-term leases
to potential sub-borrowers. The government has agreed to resolve the difficulties
and there has been some recent improvement. A number of loans already have been
approved and others are being processed. Other aspects of the project, including
the financing of private ranches in the interior and the conduct of pasture
grazing trails, are now proceeding fairly well.
Ln. No. 165  Second Sea Defense Pro톏ct                                   24   1971'
             Closing Date: December 31,
          The project costs were estimated at 36% above the appraisal estimate
as of November 1974. A number of factors have affected costs: devaluation, a
lag of 1., years between appraisal and bid opening, construction difficulties
with the cofferdam on the first sea defense project (Ln. No. ,99), and
accelerated erosion of the foreshore. The lowest bid for the civil works was
almost double the appraisal estimate. The government proposed to construct the
sea wall by force account since it believed that contractors' assessment of
the risks involved was an important cause of these high bids. After a detailed
examination of this proposal by conSUltants and Bank staff, the proposal was
accepted by the Bank. At the time of appraisal, the economic rate of return
on the project was estimated at 31%; with a 36% increase in estimated costs,
the project's rate of return should still be above 20%. Although the project


i7 These notes   are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
     progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro
     blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
     them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
     they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
     weaknesses in project execution.
                                                                 .ANNEX II
                                                                 Page 3 of 3

as a whole is now progressing satisfactori~, past delays in reaching agreement
between the government and the consultants on the rehabilitation of sluice out
falls and del~s in the construction of the Georgetown seawall necessitated an
extension of the present closing date to December 31, 1976.
Cr. No. 301                                                       1972;

          The start of construction work was delayed until July 1973, and pro
gress has since been slow due primari~ to the contractor's lack of experienoe.
The government has terminated, with Bank approval, the present contract and will
propose for the Bank's approval a program for completing the project. Although
the estimated cost of the project is now approx1mate~ 15% greater than at the
time of appraisal, the economic rate of return (15%) is still acceptable.
In. No. 875  Power Project; Ust6.0 Million !Dan of January 12, 1973;
              Closing Date:   June 30, 1977
          Because of delays in project engineering and other difficulties, the
execution of the project has been delayed by about six months and overall costs
(excluding engineering) increased by about 23% due to inflation and other
factors. The increase in engineering cost is in excess of 87%, main~ due to
weaknesses in project management and in engineering consultants' work. Discussions
were held with the government, the Guyana Electricity Corporation (GEC) and the
other external financing agencies (ODM and CIDA) on the measures necessary to
strengthen the finances, management and technical expertise of GEC to ensure the
successful completion of the project. The rate of return on GEC investment has
remained below the level (10%) originally agreed with the Bank. The government
is concerned about the1mpact on its incomes policy of a steep increase in the
electricity rates. It was agreed that the GEC tariffs will be increased to
yield in 1975 a 7.5% rate of return As a temporary measure, however, the govern
ment will offset the effect of the increase on the consumer by p~g to GEC
a subsiqy which is intended to alleviate the iapact of the tariff increase on
the cost of living and to avoid claims for raises by wage and salary earners
in Guyana. The government and GEC have agreed that GEC should consider raising
tariffs by mid-1976or at the time of the next general wage/salary increase in
the public sector, whichever occurs first. The Bank will make provision to meet
the increase in engineering costs,and to absorb part of the increased project
costs, the existing arrangements for the financing of the project by OUM and
CIDA will be amended with a view to ODM and CIDA bearing a larger share of the
equipment and construction costs. The government will bear 8If:3" additional costs
necessary to complete the project.
Ill. No. 1016  Irrigation Project; US$12.9 Million Loan of June 25. 1974;
               Closing Date: December 31, 1979
          The Bank has approved the appointments ot a Project .Manager and a Pro
ject Engineer to assist in the project execution. The government is negotiating
a contract with consultants to assist in project execution; its appointment of
such consultants is a condition ot effectiveness.
                                                                      ANNEX III
                                                                      Page 1 0' )
                              GUYANA - SECOND EDUCATION PBOJECT
                           DEVElOPMENT CREDIT/lOAN PIlOJECT SUMHARI

Borrower:      Guyana
Amount:        Credi t :     US$4. 0 million equivalent in various currencies
               Loan:         U5$8.0 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:         Credit:      Standard
               Loan:        Payable in )0 years, including 10 years of grace,
                            at an interest rate of ~ per annum.
Project
Description:   The project would help to make the education STsteJll more
               responsive to development needs in Guyana. It would
               increase the practical content of secondar,r level curricula
               and improve nonformal education and training. More
               specifical1;y, the project would provide for:
               (a)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of secondary
                    education facilities, consisting of:
                       (i)  7 new Community Secondary Schools with
                            about 4,500 student places;
                      (ii)  extensions to 10 existing secondary schools
                            consisting of 19 workshops, 19 laboratories
                            and 19 homecraft rooms for about 1,680
                            additional student places and 4 staff houses;
                            and
                            o
                      (iii)  ne new Secondary Teachers I Training College
                            with approximately 450 student places.
               (b)  Construction, furnishing and equipping of vocational
                    and agricultural training facilities, consisting of:
                       (i)  extension to the Guyana School of Agriculture
                            for an additional 88 students;
                      (ii)  6 new Rural Training Centers for about 216
                            trainees, including boarding facilities for
                            about 152 trainees and 10 staff houses;
                     (iii)  an Agricultural Extension In-Service Training
                            and Communications Center with places for
                            approximately )0 agricultural officers, board
                            ing facilities for about 26 officers and 2 staff
                            houses; and
                      (iv)  a Caribbean AniJaal Health Technicians r Training
                            Center with places and boarding facilities for
                            about 72 students and one staff house.

               (c)  7 man-years of technical assistance and 57 man-years of
                    fellowships.
               (d)  A study to assess the effectiveness of the vocational
                    and technical education and training system.
                                                                        ANNEX. III
                                                                        Page 2 of 3

Estimated Cost                                ------uS$   Million---------
and Financing Plan:                           Local       Foreign    Total
                        Components                       Exchange

                  Community Secondary
                   Schools                     2.8         2.8           5.6
                  Multilateral Second
                   ary Schools                 1.3         1.1            2.4
                  Secondary Teacher
                   Training College            0.5         0.4            0.9
                  Agricultural Techni
                   cian Training Institute     0.2         0.2            0.4
                  Agricultural In-Service
                   Training and Communica
                   tions Centers -             0.2         0.2           0.4
                        \'.'~-'   .,-.~.--




                  Rural Training Centers
                                                -'-'"
                                               0.7
                                                             ----
                                                           0.7           1.4
                  Caribbean Animal Health
                   Technicians' Training
                   Center                      0.3         0.2           0.5
                  Technical Assistance                     0.6           0.6
                  Study and Project Admi
                   nistration                  0.4         0.2           0.6
                        Subtotal               6.4         6.4          12.8
                  Contingencies:
                   Physical                    0.5         0.5           1.0
                   Price                       2.6         2.5           5.1
                        Subtotal               3.1         3.0           6.1
                        Total                  9.5         9.4          18.9

                  The Bank/IDA would provide the foreign exchange requirements
                  andUS$2.6 million of the local costs; the government of
                  Guyana would meet the remainder of the costs.
Estimated
Disbursements:                               ----uS$    Million------------
                       -   FY                텮nnual          Cumulative .

                       1975                   0.1                 0.1
                       1976                   1.2                 1.3
                       1977                   3.0                 4.3
                       1978                   4.3                 8.6
                       1979                   3.1                11.7
                       1980                   0.3                12.0
                                                                ANNEX III
                                                                Page 3 of 3




    Procurement
    Arrangements:       Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis
                        of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accord
                        ance with local procurement procedures, which are satis
                        factory to the Bank/IDA. Contracts for furniture and
                        equipment would be awarded on the basis of international
                        competitive bidding except for furniture and equipment
                        that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$5,OOO
                        each. These would be procured on the basis of competitive
                        bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
                        procurement procedures. Procurement under these procedures
                        would not, in aggregate, exceed US$215,OOO equivalent or
                        1C$ of the total cost of furniture and equipment. An amount
                        of up to US$300,OOO would finance retroactively expenditures
                        incurred after July 1, 1974 for professional services,
                        project administration and technical assistance required
                        to begin implementation of the project. Domestic and
                        other CARICOM member countries' manufacturers would receive
                        a preferential margin in bid evaluations. For domestic
                        manufacturers, this would be limited to 15% of c.1. f 
                        costs of imports or of the applicable import duties, which
                        ever is lower. Suppliers in the CARICOM countries other
                        than Guyana would be accorded preference equal to 15%
                        of the CIF price or to the difference in tariff between
                        CARICOM and external suppliers, whichever is lower.
    Appraisal Report:   Report No. 584a-GUA, dated April 3, 1975.




"
                                                                                                                                                                               57'

                                                                                                                                                 GUYANA
                                                                                                             SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
                                                                               -q                                                ()          COMMUNITY SECONDARY SCHOOLS


                                                        ~r:::'..J
                                                                                                                                            EXTENSIDNS TD SECONDARY SCHOOLS

                                                          ~ABARUM~                  )'                                                      SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
                                                                                                                                 ....        GUYANA SCHOOL OF AG RICUL TURE
                                             ,,----J'                                                                            V           AGRICULTURE IN-SERVICE TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION CENTER
8'                                                                                       <'                                      1:.,        RURAL TRAINING CENTERS                               8'
                                       J'"                                                     "1
                                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                             CARIB8EAN ANIMAL HEALTH TECHNICIAN TRAINING CENTER
                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                   J
              '( 
           I-                                                                                                             ROADS 

                                                                                                                                             RIVERS

                                                                                                       1.-                                   SCHOOL DISTRICTS




                     (
                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                        j3afdl'ld         <'
                                                                      ",,'
                                                                                                             r


     I.i..J
                     )
                      B<va mil
                                                                     f?iv~'1             CHARITY~

                                                                                               ANNA
                                                                                                                 /


                                                                                                                      f"'.6.MON REPOS
                         \                                                                    REGINA
                                                                                                                      '- iii Mt"oQTU    r.C(\Qr-rTr'lWM






