CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 544 GUA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
GUYANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 544 GUA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
GUYANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1975, between GUYANA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
financial assistance for the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Loan Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of


﻿4
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures for the Caribbean
Animal Health Technicians' Training Center referred to in Part B(iv) of the Project
until the condition set forth in paragraph 4(b) of said Schedule 1 has been satisfied.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish after consultation with the Borrower. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June I and December 1 commencing


﻿5
June 1, 1985, and ending December 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational, architectural and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall perform, or cause to be performed, all
its obligations set forth in Sections 3.02 to 3.11 of the Loan Aareement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled, subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.


﻿6
Section 5.02. The date July 8, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.03 of the
Loan Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement
shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Main Street
Georgetown,
Guyana
Cable address:
MINFIN
Georgetown, Guyana
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿7
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
GUYANA
Bx /s/ P. S. Mittleholzer
Authorizec Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  (Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                    4,500,000         54% of total
expenditures
(2)   Professional                    530,000          54% of total
Fees for Civil                                    expenditures
Works
(3)   Furniture                       440,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
(ex-factory) ex-
penditures
(4)   Equipment                      1,770,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(5)  Technical Assist-                610,000          100% of foreign
ance: Specialists'                                expenditures and
Services and                                      100% of salaries
Fellowships                                       of local special-
ists
(6)   Project Adminis-                550,000          100% of total ex-
tration and Study                                 penditures
for Project, Part D
(7)   Unallocated                    3,600,000
TOTAL              12,000,000


﻿9
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which
shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Association
or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)  in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (2), (5) and (6) on account
of expenditures for professional services, technical assistance and project
administration incurred after July 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $300,000; and
(b)  in respect of expenditures on account of the Caribbean Animal Health
Technicians' Training Center until the Borrower shall have submitted evidence that
Caribbean countries, other than the Borrower, undertake to use, and to share the
operating costs of, not less than 50 student places at the Caribbean Animal Health
Technicians' Training Center.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if


﻿10
the Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount
of the Credit, the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association and of the Bank ar2 not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association and the Bank shall ha2 reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit and of the Loan as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
PART A:     Secondary Education Facilities. Construction, furnishing and equipping
of:
(i)         7 new   Community High Schools with approximately 44500
student places;
(ii)        extensions to 10 existing secondary schools to provide practical
- subject teaching facilities comprising 19 workshops, 19
laboratories and 19 homecraft rooms, with approximately 1,680
additional student places and 4 staff houses; and
(iii)       one new Secondary Teachers' Training College (grades 12 - 14)
at Turkeyen, with approximately 450 student places.
PART B:     Vocational  and   Agricultural Training   Facilities. Construction,
furnishing and equipping of:
(i)         extension to the existing Guyana School of AgricultrIe with
additional places and boarding facilities for approximately 88
students;
(ii)        6 new Rural Training Centers to be operated by the District
Agricultural Extension Office with places for approximately 21
trainees, boarding facilities for approximately 152 trainees and
10 staff houses;
(iii)       an   Agricultural   Extension    in-Service  Training   and
Communications Center to be established within the Ministry
responsible for agriculture with )laces for approximately 30
agricultural officers in courses of one or two weeks' duration
and boarding facilities for approximately 26 officers and 2 staff
houses; and
(iv)        a Caribbean Animal Health Technicians' Training Center to be
established adjacent to the Guyana School of Agriculture with
places and boarding facilities for approximately 72 students and
one staff house.


﻿12
PART   Teclnical Assitance. The provision of:
(11         approximately 7-man years of specialists to assist in (a) drawing
up a new education law and programming educational reform
measures; (b) developing curricula for the technical and
agrieultural institutes and strengthening their liaison with
enployers; and (e) operating the Rural Training Centers and the
Agricultural Extension In-Service Training and Communications
Center-, and
011        apiroxiimttely  57-man  years  of fellowships  to  support
inplemnwntution and operation of the Project.
PART D     A study to assess the effectivencss of the vocational and technical
dution     and   training  system  in   meeting  the  Borrower's
soitei onomllic  objectives and  identify priorities for long-term
uistwment in education and training.
lhe lucatlon1 atpproximate total enrollnient capacities and approximate areas
11 tintton, of the ducattional ilstitutions in Part A and Part B are set forth
the Annw  to th1 Sehedule, said Annex being subject to modification by
4'inent 1betmen the Borrower and the Bank.
1,he Project   f expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.
-


﻿13
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Approximate     Approximate
Total         Area of
Enrollment   New Construction
Code No.   Location of Institution       Capacity       (Sq, ft.j*
COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOLS          4,480          211,400
CO-01     Canje                             640           30,200
CO-02     Blairmont                         640           30,200
CO-03     Victoria                          640           30,200
CO-04     Lodge                             640           30,200
CO-05     Grove                             640           30,200
CO-06     Stewartville                      640           30,200
CO-07     Charity                           640           30,200
EXTENSIONS TO SECONDARY
SCHOOLS                         6,630           89,450
EX-01     Skeldon Line Path                 880           13,950
EX-02     Central Correntyne                640            9,200
EX-03     Rosignol                          640            9,200
EX-04     Cummings Lodge                    880           13,950
EX-05     Annandale                         880           13,950
EX-06     North Georgetown                  880            4,800
EX-07     South Georgetown                  880            4,800
EX-08     Covent Garden                     640            9,200
EX-09     Mabaruma                          155            4,800
EX-10     Saint Ignatius                    155            5,600
'IT       SECONDARY TEACHERS'
TRAINING COLLEGE                  450           31,150
SA        EXTENSION TO GUYANA SCHOOL
OF AGRICULTURE                    216            4,790
RURAL TRAINING CENTERS            216           25,310
RT-01     Black Bush Polder                                4,950
RT-02     Onverwagt                                        4,950
RT-03     Anna Regina                                      4,950
RT-04     Bartica                                          4,950
RT-05     Kuru Kuru                                         560
RT-06     Lethem                                           4,950
IS        AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
IN-SERVICE TRAINING AND
COMMUNICATIONS CENTER              30            7,820
AH        CARIBBEAN ANIMAL HEALTH
TECHNICIANS' TRAINING
CENTER                             72           13,710
*    Boarding and staff housing areas not included.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.2 and A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as
revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for civil works contracts included in Parts A and B of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines. The civil works
contracts may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding provided that
foreign contractors shall not be precluded from bidding. The tender notices for
such contracts shall be widely circulated within Guyana.
3.    Items of furniture and equipment required for the Project shall be grouped
so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical
and procurement practices. Furniture and equipment contracts estimated to amount
to less than $5,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of the Borrower's
regular procurement procedures, provided that the total cost of furniture and
equipment so procured shall in the aggregate not exceed the equivalent of $215,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic and
Regional Malnuifacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    For goods included in Categories (3) and (4) of the table set forth in
paragraph I of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement and manufactured
in Guyana and in member countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM),
the Borrower may grant a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:


﻿15
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Guyana if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower,
the Association and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Guyana equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Guyana.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country other
than Guyana which is a party to CARICOM and entitled to
preferential tariffs thereunder.
(4)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to
the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D
bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the
smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered
in such group C or group D bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15%( of such price. If the group A bid
or a group C bid is the lowest in such further comparison, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿16
(e)   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (d) above,
a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally compared with
the lowest bid from group C, as determined under paragraph (c) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group D bid, for
the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of (i)
the difference between the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in such group
D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in such group D bid. If
the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected for
purposes of award; if not, the lowest bid from group D, as determined under
paragraph (c) above, shall be selected for purposes of award.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association and the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association and the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed
and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association and
the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
and the Bank for their comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid. Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association and the Bank, for their comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Association
and the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the concurrence of the Association and the Bank before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    Review of proposed bid awards and final contracts. With respect to civil
works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more and furniture
and equipment contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association and the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.


﻿17
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association and the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons
for the intended award and shall furnish to the Association and the Bank in
sufficient time for their review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02(a) of the Loan Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendation for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Association and the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall, if they determine that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
4.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the LoAn and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association and the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
or the Bank shall reasonably request. The Association or the Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


