                                            Document of
                                           The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: ICR00003102



                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-80850)



                                                ON A

                                                LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 500.00 MILLION

                                               TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                              FOR THE

 DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN WITH A CATASTROPHE
                  DEFERRED DRAWDOWN OPTION (CAT-DDO)



                                            April 19, 2015




Social, Urban, Rural, and Resilience Global Practice
Philippines Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2014)

                    Currency Unit = Philippines Peso (PhP)
                            PhP 1.00 = US$ [.023]
                           US$ 1.00 = PhP [44.88]

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 to December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA       Analytic and Advisory Activities
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CAT-DDO   Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option
CCA       Climate Change Adaptation
COA       Commission on Audit
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DBM       Department of Budget and Management
DepEd     Department of Education
DILG      Department of the Interior and Local Government
DOF       Department of Finance
DOH       Department of Health
DPWH      Department of Public Works and Highways
DRFI      Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance
DRM       Disaster Risk Management
DRRM      Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
DSWD      Department of Social Welfare and Development
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFDRR     Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery
GOP       Government of the Philippines
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
KALAHI    Kapit Bisig Laban sa Kahirapan (Hand in Hand Against Poverty)
LDRRMF    Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund
LGUs      Local Government Units
NDRRMC    National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council
NEDA      National Economic and Development Authority
OCD       Office of Civil Defense
OPARR     Office of the Presidential Assistant for Rehabilitation and Recovery
PDNA      Post-disaster Damage and Needs Assessment
PDP       Philippine Development Plan
PMESD     Project Monitoring and Evaluation System for DRM
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
Regional Vice President:    Axel van Trotsenburg
      Country Director:     Motoo Konishi
        Senior Director:    Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
               Director:    Marisela Montoliu Munoz
      Practice Manager:    Abhas Kumar Jha
     Task Team Leader:     Jolanta Kryspin-Watson
     ICR Team Leader:      Artessa Saldivar-Sali
                                            PHILIPPINES
                       Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan with a
                          Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO)

                                                           CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring

Main Report
 1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................ 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 17
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 21
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......... 22
 Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................... 24
 Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................... 25
 Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................. 26
 Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................... 27
 Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................. 28
 MAP
                                        DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                                Disaster Risk Management
Country:                 Philippines               Program Name:                Development Loan with a
                                                                                CAT DDO
Program ID:              P125943                   L/C/TF Number(s):            IBRD-80850
ICR Date:                03/30/2015                ICR Type:                    Core ICR
                                                                                GOVERNMENT OF THE
Lending Instrument:      DPL                       Borrower:
                                                                                PHILIPPINES
Original Total
                         USD 500.00M               Disbursed Amount:            USD 500.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          USD 500.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                       Revised / Actual
       Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                           Date(s)
Concept Review:          03/16/2011     Effectiveness:             12/22/2011              12/15/2011
Appraisal:               05/10/2011     Restructuring(s):
Approval:                09/13/2011     Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                   10/31/2014              10/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:                Satisfactory    Government:                         Not Applicable
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:          Satisfactory                                        Not Applicable
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                                 Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                QAG Assessments (if
                                 Indicators                                                  Rating:
       Performance                                         any)
 Potential Problem Program at
                              No                        Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any time                            Quality of Supervision
                             No                                                   None
(Yes/No):                                               (QSA):
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                    100                    100



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                                 100                    100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                             At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:               Axel van Trotsenburg                    James W. Adams
Country Director:             Motoo Konishi                           Bert Hofman
Practice Manager/Manager:     Abhas Kumar Jha                         N. Vijay Jagannathan
Program Team Leader:          Jolanta Kryspin-Watson                  Zoe Elena Trohanis
ICR Team Leader:              Artessa Saldivar-Sali
ICR Primary Author:           Artessa Saldivar-Sali


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the operation is to enhance the capacity of the Government of the Philippines to
manage the impacts of natural disasters.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                 Values (from                           Achieved at
     Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                    approval                         Completion or Target
                                                                       Values
                                                   documents)                              Years
Indicator 1 :      DILG supports the establishment of functional DRRM units or offices.
Value
(quantitative or   4 provinces                14 provinces                           80 provinces
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/13/2011                 10/31/2014                             06/17/2014
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeded. 80 provincial DRRM offices have been established (571% of target).
achievement)
                   NDRRMC develops a monitoring system to track disaster-related financing; updated
Indicator 2 :      guidelines on the use of LGU Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Funds
                   (LDRRMF) are issued.
Value
(quantitative or   Not developed              Developed                              Developed
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/13/2011                  10/31/2014                          06/17/2014
                   Achieved. The Project Monitoring and Evaluation and System for Disaster Risk
Comments
                   Management (PMESD) was developed.
(incl. %
                   DILG issued Memorandum Circular No. 2012-73 on April 17, 2012 to provide guidance on
achievement)
                   the use of Local DRRM Funds.
                   NDRRMC has rolled out training programs for government authorities to conduct post-
Indicator 3 :
                   disaster needs assessments and emergency preparedness drills.
Value
(quantitative or   Not developed              Developed                              Developed
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/13/2011                   10/31/2014                             10/15/2013
Comments           Achieved. Fifteen sector-specific guidance notes were developed for PDNAs, training was
(incl. %           provided and applied after Typhoons Pablo and Yolanda. Multi-sectoral disaster
achievement)       preparedness drills and training are conducted regularly.
                   Provinces have mainstreamed climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction
Indicator 4 :
                   measures into their Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans (PDPFP).
Value
(quantitative or   1 province                 30 provinces                           72 provinces
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/13/2011                  10/31/2014                             10/31/2014
Comments           Exceeded. 72 provinces have mainstreamed climate change adaptation and disaster risk
(incl. %           reduction measures into their Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans
achievement)       (240% of target).
                    Disaster risk reduction measures are mainstreamed into at least three sectors: health,
Indicator 5 :
                    transport, and social development.
                                                 100 health facilities                    199 health facilities
                                                 assessed;                                assessed;
                    25 health facilities
                                                 10 bridges                               10 bridges
                    assessed;
                                                 retrofitted/reconstruct                  retrofitted/reconstructe
                    0 bridges
Value                                            ed;                                      d;
                    retrofitted/reconstructed;
(quantitative or                                 1000 communities                         24026 communities
                    0 communities trained;
Qualitative)                                     trained;                                 trained;
                    0 DSWD Field Offices
                                                 4 DSWD Field                             16 DSWD Field
                    covered by a post-disaster
                                                 Offices covered by a                     Offices covered by a
                    response window
                                                 post-disaster response                   post-disaster response
                                                 window                                   window
Date achieved       05/13/2011                   10/31/2014                               06/17/2014
                    Exceeded.
Comments            199 health facilities (199% of target)
(incl. %            10 bridges (100% of target)
achievement)        24026 (2403% of target)
                    16 DSWD Field Offices (400% of target)
Indicator 6 :       Department of Finance has prepared its catastrophe risk financing strategy.
Value
(quantitative or    Not developed                Developed                                Developed
Qualitative)
Date achieved       05/13/2011                   10/31/2014                               07/02/2014
Comments
                    Achieved. The Department of Finance has developed the Disaster Risk Financing and
(incl. %
                    Insurance Strategy for the Philippines and has launched its implementation.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                                   Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                          Formally
                                                    Values (from                          Achieved at
       Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                      approval                         Completion or Target
                                                                           Values
                                                    documents)                               Years


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

            Date ISR                                                                     Actual Disbursements
 No.                                  DO                              IP
            Archived                                                                        (USD millions)
   1       02/27/2012             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     497.50
   2       09/10/2012             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     497.50
   3       04/02/2013             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     497.50
   4       12/24/2013             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     497.50
   5       07/12/2014             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                     497.50

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Macroeconomic Policy Framework at Appraisal
1. After a sharp slow-down in 2009, the Philippine economy experienced strong economic growth
   starting in 2010. With an estimated growth rate of 7.6 percent in 2010, the Philippines experienced
   its highest annual economic rate of growth in more than 30 years. This rapid recovery was largely
   attributable to the rebound in global trade and increased investor and consumer confidence, together
   with the Aquino administration’s strong focus on good governance and reducing the costs of doing
   business. In addition, the economic expansion at the time reflected temporary domestic stimulus
   policies that were held over from 2009, and election-related spending in early 2010.
2. Monetary policy was broadly accommodative: although the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP)
   withdrew some of the liquidity-enhancing measures introduced in the immediate aftermath of
   the global financial crisis, its key policy rates were unchanged since August 2009. This policy
   permitted bank lending to increase modestly (to an annual growth rate of almost 10 percent, or slightly
   below nominal GDP growth) and help close the output gap. Increases in foreign portfolio inflows in
   2010 helped strengthen the Peso, push up the stock market index and reduce interest rates. The stronger
   Peso helped to contain inflation, but the associated short term capital inflows also raised policymakers’
   concerns about the rising risk of economic and financial disruptions in the event of sudden reversals.
   The central bank intervened successfully in late 2010, using its forward foreign exchange swap
   portfolio, to stem the rapid appreciation of the Peso.
3. The current account of the balance of payments yielded solid surpluses of 5.6 percent of GDP in
   2009 and 4.2 percent in 2010. This robust performance reflected the strong contraction of imports in
   2009, followed by a more modest recovery in 2010, and strong growth of goods and services exports,
   combined with steady remittance inflows. As a result, gross international reserves reached a record
   high of US$62.5 billion in December 2010, equivalent to more than 10 months’ worth of imports and
   to almost six times the country’s short-term external liabilities by residual maturity. Similarly, liquid
   reserves (as measured by the forward book of the BSP) exceeded US$17 billion in December 2010.
   Meanwhile, the external debt remained broadly stable at around 36 percent of GDP.
4. Based on the preceding considerations, the Bank assessed the Philippines’ macroeconomic
   framework at appraisal to be adequate. Even though the high public debt ratio posed a risk to
   macroeconomic stability, the gradual pace of fiscal deficit and debt reduction represented a
   compromise between several tradeoffs. In particular, the slower pace of deficit reduction helped
   facilitate the budgetary shift toward greater social sector spending starting with the 2011, instead of
   forcing the Government of the Philippines (GOP) to embark on a more austere spending program that
   could have resulted in spending cuts in some priority sectors.

Disaster Risk Management in the Government’s Development Agenda
5. The Philippines is among the most vulnerable nations in the world to natural hazards. It is ranked
   fourth in terms of exposure to at least three hazards, fourth in mortality risk, and ninth in economic




                                                    1
      impact to GDP, with an estimated 78.7 percent of GDP in areas at risk 1. Government data indicated
      that the economic impacts of natural disasters were estimated at an average of PHP28 billion in direct
      damages, equivalent to 0.7 percent of GDP per annum from 1990 to 2008. Total historical impacts in
      that period could be greater since losses, particularly those borne by the private sector, have not been
      fully accounted for in the past (with the exception of the impact of Tropical storm Ondoy and Typhoon
      Pepeng in 2009, which resulted in 2.7 percent of GDP in damages and losses for the economy).
6. At the time of appraisal, a number of recent major natural disasters had had significant impacts
      on the Philippines’ macro-economy. In the aftermath of Tropical Storm Ondoy and Typhoon Pepeng
      in 2009, GOP took a more proactive approach to disaster risk management by passing the Philippine
      Disaster Risk Reduction and Management (DRRM) Act in 2010. The DRRM Act (Republic Act
      10121) emphasized the need for a comprehensive, integrated, and proactive approach to disaster risk
      management across levels and sectors of government, and among vulnerable communities (please see
      Section 3.1.a for further details).
7. Discussions regarding contingent credit were initiated by the GOP after the losses suffered from
      Typhoons Ondoy and Pepeng in 2009. The Catastrophe-Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO)
      on a Development Policy Loan (DPL) offers a source of immediate liquidity, in the form of a
      contingent loan, which can serve as bridge financing while other sources (e.g. concessional funding,
      bilateral aid or reconstruction loans) are being mobilized after a natural disaster. Borrowers have
      access to contingent financing in amounts up to US$500 million or 0.25% of GDP (whichever is less).
      The CAT-DDO has a “soft”, as opposed to “parametric” trigger, which means that funds become
      available for disbursement (up to the full loan amount, at the Borrower’s discretion, at any time within
      three years from loan signing) upon the occurrence of a natural disaster resulting in the declaration of
      a state of emergency (please see Section 2.1). The immediate availability of liquidity and the ‘soft
      trigger’, combined with the policy framework to improve the Government’s capacity to manage
      natural disaster impacts, are features of the instrument’s design that the GOP found to be relevant to
      the country’s context. Through a Letter of Development Policy from the Department of Finance
      (DOF) dated July 1, 2011, GOP requested the Bank’s support in the form of a CAT-DDO to
      complement other investment operations and the ongoing program of technical assistance.


1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
8. The development objective of the operation was to enhance the capacity of the Government of the
      Philippines to manage the impacts of natural disasters 2. The prior actions were: i) the Enactment of
      the Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act (Republic Act No. 10121) in May 2010,
      and ii) the adoption of the Strategic National Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction (Executive
      Order No. 888) of June 2010.


1
    World Bank. 2005. Natural Disasters Hotspots—A Global Risk Analysis. Washington, DC: World Bank.
2
  As stated in the Loan Agreement, paragraph 5: “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to enhance the
Borrower's capacity to implement a disaster risk management program for adverse natural events and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
July 1, 2011from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution.”




                                                                      2
9. The Government’s establishment of an adequate ex-ante macroeconomic environment and the
     existence of a satisfactory disaster risk management framework constituted an enabling context that
     facilitated the Philippines’ eligibility for this DPL with a CAT-DDO. As captured in the Program
     Document, six key outcome indicators (please see Data Sheet) were agreed on by the Government and
     the Bank and expected at the time of the operation’s completion.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
The Program Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
10. The CAT-DDO was designed to enhance the capacity of GOP to manage the impacts of natural
     disasters. The operation addressed three key disaster risk management policy areas prioritized in the
     2010 Philippine DRRM Act:
     •    Strengthen the institutional capacity for disaster risk management efforts;
     •    Mainstream disaster risk reduction into development planning; and
     •    Better manage the Government’s fiscal exposure to natural hazard impacts.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
11. The Policy Areas were not revised.
1.6 Other significant changes
12. No significant changes were made to the project.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Program Performance
13. This DPL with a CAT-DDO was a single tranche operation, for which the Prior Policy Actions
     were fully implemented (Table 1). The drawdown trigger was that “a State of Calamity3 exists in
     the Borrower’s territory as a result of a natural disaster, which has been declared by the President
     through a Proclamation of Calamity duly published in the Official Gazette”, in accordance with the
     DRRM Act. A “state of calamity” is defined in the DRRM Act as a condition involving mass casualty
     and/or major damages to property, disruption of means of livelihoods, roads and normal way of life
     of people in the affected areas as a result of the occurrence of natural or human-induced hazard.
14. Tropical Storm Sendong (international codename: Washi) struck the southern Philippines on
     December 16, 2011, causing catastrophic human and economic losses 4. There were a total of
     1,268 fatalities, 6,071 injured and 181 reported missing. The total damage for all sectors was estimated



3
  According to the 2010 DRRM Act, the declaration of a State of Calamity can be national or in part of the territory, in terms of clusters of
barangays, municipalities, cities, provinces, and regions.
4 http://www.recoveryplatform.org/assets/publication/Final_PDNAReport_13June2012.pdf



                                                                     3
       at PhP 5,442,566,519 (US$126.6 million5) and the estimated total losses to the economy amounted to
       PhP 1,387,928,644 (US$32.3 million). Overall, the recovery and reconstruction needs were estimated
       at PhP 26,722,988,100 (US$621.4 million).
15. On December 20, 2011, President Benigno S. Aquino III declared a national State of Calamity.
       Presidential Proclamation No. 303 6 was duly published in the Official Gazette on December 21, 2011,
       in fulfillment of the stipulations for withdrawal of loan proceeds. Upon receipt of the request from
       the Department of Finance on December 27, 2011 to withdraw funds, the balance of the loan proceeds
       (US$497,500,000) was disbursed to GOP within two days, on December 29, 2011, demonstrating the
       effectiveness of the fast-disbursing CAT-DDO.
16. The CAT-DDO instrument has a revolving feature, under which amounts repaid during the
       drawdown period become available for subsequent withdrawal. The three-year drawdown period
       may be renewed up to four times, for a total maximum period of 15 years. The Government of the
       Philippines did not avail of this revolving feature (please see Section 3.1.b).

Table 1. Policy Areas, Prior Actions and Status
                  Policy Areas                                      Agreed Prior Actions                     Status
                                                   Enactment of the 2010 Disaster Risk Reduction and        Fulfilled
                                                   Management Act (Republic Act No.10121) of May
                                                   2010. This law seeks to mainstream risk reduction into
    I.    Strengthen the institutional             development policies and processes. Focus has been
    capacity for disaster risk management          expanded from ex-post actions and funding for
    efforts.                                       emergency response, relief and recovery to include ex-
    II. Mainstream disaster risk                   ante actions and funding for risk reduction,
    reduction into development planning.           preparedness, and prevention.
    III. Better manage the                         Adoption of the Strategic National Action Plan for       Fulfilled
    Government’s fiscal exposure to                Disaster Risk Reduction (Executive Order No. 888) of
    natural hazard impacts.                        June 2010.This is a 10-year plan to achieve
                                                   commitments made under the Hyogo Framework of
                                                   Action.

     Tranche #             Amount                 Expected Release Date          Actual Release Date        Release
         1               $497.5 million                                              12/29/2011             Regular

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
External Factors
17. The Bank provided a program of grant-funded Technical Assistance in order to support the
       achievement of the CAT-DDO policy targets. Approved in December 2011, the Support to the
       Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Agenda had the objective of enhancing the
       Government of the Philippines’ capacity to manage the impacts of natural disasters. This technical
       assistance program was designed in parallel with, and the activities were fully aligned with the policy
       action areas of, the CAT-DDO. Throughout the implementation period of the CAT-DDO, it supported



5   Bangko Sentral exchange rate of US1=PhP43.004, as of June 13, 2012.
6   http://www.gov.ph/2011/12/20/proclamation-no-303-s-2011/

                                                                   4
    the following major activities related to the CAT-DDO policy framework: development of the Project
    Monitoring and Evaluation System for DRM, capacity building for Post-disaster Damage and Needs
    Assessments, capacity building at the local government level for DRRM planning and preparedness
    including innovative decision support tools, catastrophe risk modeling to inform the development of
    the DOF’s Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance (DRFI) strategy, and advisory services to support
    the development of the DRFI Strategy. This program of technical assistance enabled a strong and
    continuous policy dialogue, despite the fact the CAT-DDO proceeds were fully disbursed within
    weeks of the loan’s effectiveness.
18. The year 2013 was devastating for the Philippines: a significant earthquake, then super Typhoon
    Yolanda, caused major damage and a substantial increase in poverty levels in affected areas. On
    October 15, 2013, the Central Visayas region experienced a magnitude 7.2 earthquake that affected
    3.2 million people, caused 223 casualties, displaced over 355,000 people, and damaged over 69,000
    homes. In November 2013, Yolanda, a Category 5-equivalent typhoon with winds speeds over 300
    km per hour (the most powerful storm ever to make landfall), struck the central Philippines, affecting
    an estimated 12.2 million people and causing over 6,200 reported fatalities and almost 1,800 people
    missing 7 . The total damage and loss from Typhoon Yolanda were estimated at PhP571.1 billion
    (US$12.9 billion 8). The poor were disproportionately affected, with an additional 2.3 million people
    (nearly half a million households) subsequently living below the poverty line. This corresponds to an
    increase in the poverty rate from 41.2% to approximately 55.7% in the worst-affected areas.
19. These major disasters at the beginning of the last year of CAT-DDO implementation required
    the Government’s full attention for recovery and reconstruction. Challenges associated with the
    Typhoon Yolanda recovery and reconstruction effort have led to new demands on the existing
    institutional structure and mandates, and areas of improvement were brought to light by this disaster
    of unprecedented intensity and scale of impact. In particular, the actions on strengthening the
    institutional capacity for disaster risk management efforts were constrained. Major challenges were
    faced, especially in post-disaster recovery and reconstruction. The function of recovery planning was
    assumed by the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA), as the apex development
    planning agency and NDRRMC Vice-Chair for Rehabilitation and Recovery, which developed the
    Reconstruction Assistance on Yolanda 9 (RAY) plan. Coordination and implementation of recovery
    and reconstruction, however, are functions that were not clearly defined in the DRRM Act. The
    existing institutional system had not been tested for a disaster of this magnitude and, as a result, the
    Office of the President issued Memorandum Order No. 62 (series of 2013) 10 one month after the
    disaster, providing for the functions of the Presidential Assistant for Rehabilitation and Recovery.
20. The Office of the Presidential Assistant for Rehabilitation and Recovery’s (OPARR) mandate
    to exercise oversight, with respect to the implementation of the recovery plans and programs,
    affected the operationalization of the monitoring system developed for NDRRMC to track
    disaster-related financing. The magnitude of the recovery effort, variety of funding sources, and
    requirements for generating comprehensive financial and physical monitoring of post-disaster
    recovery and reconstruction spending significantly broadened the context for the CAT-DDO target on
    tracking disaster-related financing (see section 3.2 for further details).


7 Government of the Philippines. May 5, 2014. www.gov.ph/crisis‐response/updates‐typhoon‐yolanda/
8 Bangko Sentral exchange rate of US1=PhP44.135, as of December 12, 2013.
9 http://www.gov.ph/downloads/2013/12dec/20131216-RAY.pdf
10 http://www.gov.ph/2013/12/06/memorandum-order-no-62-s-2013/



                                                                 5
Factors under Government Control
21. The GOP drew down the full amount of the loan proceeds after Tropical Storm Sendong. The
      full drawdown of the proceeds necessitated the use of other financing sources after Typhoon Yolanda. ,
      The development of the DRFI strategy under the CAT-DDO supported the GOP to have a rational
      framework for considering the options for post-disaster financing instruments. The succeeding
      Programmatic AAA is further supporting the development of analytical tools for decision-making
      regarding utilization of available funds (e.g., timing, amounts, and combination of instruments).
22. The Government took a strong policy stance to promote resilient recovery from Typhoon
      Yolanda. The Reconstruction Assistance on Yolanda: Building Back Better plan, which was
      developed five weeks after the typhoon made landfall, is the Government’s strategic plan to “restore
      the economic and social conditions of these areas at the very least to their pre-typhoon levels and to a
      higher level of disaster resilience”. The Philippine Development Plan (PDP) Midterm Update
      (released in April 2014) similarly highlights the Government’s commitment to addressing the disaster-
      related aspects of poverty, focusing interventions on provinces chosen by poverty levels as well as
      vulnerability to natural disasters.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
23. M&E Design. Indicators selected to monitor progress toward achievement of the PDO correctly
      reflected defined areas of action and corresponded to the expected outcomes of the prior actions. They
      included an appropriate mix of specific qualitative and quantified targets, which were attributable,
      relevant, and time-bound, and were sufficient to enable effective monitoring of the project’s
      achievement of the PDO. Moreover, the action areas and outcome indicators in the policy framework
      were aligned with government priorities. The PDP 2011-2016 goal of “Enhanced resilience of natural
      systems and improved adaptive capacities of human communities to cope with environmental hazards
      including climate-related risks” 11 includes the following associated strategies: (1) Strengthen
      institutional capacities of national and local governments for CCA and DRRM, (2) Mainstream and
      integrate disaster risk reduction and CCA in national, sectoral, regional and local development plans,
      and (3) Devise cost-effective means to offset socioeconomic losses from disasters and provide
      information on possible funding sources. M&E of the key indicators were conducted using the regular
      systems of the relevant agencies.
24. M&E Implementation. Since the policy targets were part of regular government programs of several
      relevant agencies, the reporting mechanisms of these agencies were used and recorded. In addition,
      when a policy target was implemented under another World Bank investment operation, progress
      reporting for the related project was used in order to avoid duplication. Activities under the
      programmatic technical assistance were specifically designed to support action areas of the CAT-DDO,
      and enabled regular monitoring and evaluation of the operation’s outcome indicators through progress
      reporting on TA activities.
25. M&E Utilization. A key target in the Policy Matrix that enabled strong M&E was the development
      of the Government’s Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Strategy. In order to develop the DRFI



11
     http://www.neda.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/CHAPTER-10.pdf

                                                              6
       strategy, the DOF convened a Technical Working Group consisting of the CAT-DDO stakeholder
       agencies as well as other oversight and line agencies. This group functioned as a platform for
       coordination and monitoring of the Policy Actions during project implementation, including taking
       actions to advance progress on the achievement of the targets. Furthermore, the M&E of CAT-DDO
       policy areas informed the next phase of the Bank’s engagement in DRM and DRFI (see Section 2.4).


2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
26. The next phase of the Bank’s engagement is a new Programmatic DRM AAA (Reducing
       Vulnerability to Natural Disasters), of which a key activity is support to the implementation of
       the Government’s Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Strategy. This programmatic technical
       assistance includes: (i) the sunset review of the Philippine DRRM Act, and the associated regulatory
       and institutional framework for DRM and DRFI; (ii) the assessment of the cost of strengthening key
       public infrastructure, in support of climate and disaster resilience and risk reduction investments; (iii)
       resilience and protection of priority cultural heritage assets; (iv) disaster risk mitigation for public
       school facilities; and (v) analytical and capacity building activities to support the implementation of
       the Government’s DRFI strategy. These activities will directly contribute to sustaining benefits in the
       three CAT-DDO Action Areas.
27. Through this programmatic technical assistance, the Bank is supporting the implementation of
       the GOP’s DRFI Strategy through preparatory work to explore options for a market-based
       sovereign catastrophe risk transaction. In addition, the Bank is providing technical, legal,
       operational and institutional support and capacity building to design and implement a catastrophe risk
       insurance facility for LGUs, including the establishment of a catastrophe risk insurance pooling
       mechanism. The Bank is also supporting the Department of Education (DepEd) in the design of a
       catastrophe risk insurance program for public schools.


3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
a. Relevance of Objectives
28. The relevance of the operation’s objectives is rated High. The objectives of the CAT-DDO were
       directly relevant to the Philippine Development Plan, which emphasized disaster risk reduction as a
       core country priority. 12 The project supported three key disaster risk management policy areas that
       were prioritized in the Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act 13 , the National
       DRRM Framework and the associated DRRM Plan, thereby showing full alignment with the country’s
       priorities.
29. This CAT-DDO Development Policy Loan (DPL) was consistent with the Bank Group’s Country
       Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Philippines covering the period July 1, 2009 to June 30, 2012.
       The subsequent CAS update was discussed by the Board on May 19, 2011 and extended to June 30,
       2013. The CAS that was in effect during project preparation and appraisal was anchored in the PDP


12
     Ibid. http://www.neda.gov.ph/?p=1128
13
     http://www.gov.ph/2010/05/27/republic-act-no-10121/

                                                           7
     for 2004-2010, and carried the theme of ‘Making Growth Work for the Poor’. Moreover, the operation
     directly related to Strategic Objective 4 (Reduced Vulnerabilities 14) of the 2004-2010 CAS, which
     included improving disaster risk management.
30. At the time of appraisal, a number of recent major natural disasters had had significant impacts
     on the Philippines’ macro-economy. Following Tropical Storm Ondoy and Typhoon Pepeng in 2009,
     GOP took a more proactive approach to disaster risk management by passing the Philippine Disaster
     Risk Reduction and Management (DRRM) Act in 2010. The DRRM Act (Republic Act 10121) and
     its Implementing Rules and Regulations emphasized the need for a coherent, comprehensive,
     integrated, and proactive approach to disaster risk management across levels and sectors of
     government, and among vulnerable communities. The Act provided for the development of a National
     DRRM Framework 15 for a comprehensive, all-hazard, multi-sectoral, inter-agency and community-
     based approach to disaster risk reduction and management.
31. The PDP Midterm Update released in April 2014 recognized the continuing role of DRM and
     climate change adaptation (CCA) in safeguarding hard-won development gains. It includes key
     strategies to build the country’s resilience. DRM and CCA are cross-cutting themes, with resilience
     issues incorporated in various sections of the updated PDP, including social development, agriculture,
     environment and natural resources, and infrastructure.
32. Disaster risk management and resilience to climate change are key priorities for the Bank under
     the current Country Partnership Strategy for FY15-18. The fourth engagement area of the CPS
     identifies ‘High exposure and vulnerability to current and growing disaster and climate change risks’
     as one of the country’s development constraints. In order to respond to this, ‘Increased physical and
     financial resilience to natural disaster and climate change impacts’ is a strategic outcome for the
     Bank’s engagement over the next three years.

b. Relevance of Design and Implementation
33. The relevance of the design and implementation is rated Substantial.          The Action Areas and
     implementation arrangements were consistent with the Program’s stated objectives. All the agreed
     targets under the policy framework were met due to the Government’s strong commitment to the DRM
     agenda and the consultative process for the development of the action areas. However, the minor
     shortcoming in implementation was that the full drawdown of the proceeds after Tropical Storm
     Sendong did necessitate the mobilization of other financing sources after Typhoon Yolanda (see
     paragraph 37).
34. The CAT-DDO was designed to enhance the capacity of GOP to manage the impacts and risk of
     natural disasters. The operation addressed the three key disaster risk management policy areas
     prioritized in the 2010 Philippine DRRM Act. The National DRRM Plan similarly prioritizes
     outcomes with which the CAT-DDO policy framework is aligned. The key outcomes of the Plan
     include: (i) increased DRRM and CCA capacities at all levels; (ii) comprehensive national and local
     preparedness policies, plans and systems developed and implemented; (iii) DRRM and CCA
     mainstreamed and integrated in national, sectoral, regional and local development policies, plans and



14
   Reduce vulnerabilities by expanding and rationalizing the country’s social safety net, improving disaster risk management, piloting climate
change adaptation measures and expanding climate change mitigation programs.
15
   http://www.ndrrmc.gov.ph/attachments/article/227/NDRRMFramework.pdf

                                                                      8
      budgets; (iv) increased disaster resilience of infrastructure systems; and (v) access to effective and
      applicable disaster risk financing and insurance.
35. The policy targets were designed to supplement the Act and gaps in the Implementing Rules and
      Regulations. For example, the target regarding issuance of updated guidelines on the use of Local
      Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Funds was intended to provide the necessary guidance to
      implement the requirements of the Act at the local level. The Implementing Rules and Regulations
      have been further supplemented by various instructions from the NDRRMC, in the form of protocols,
      memorandum circulars and other issuances from the member agencies.
36. The relevance of the operation’s design is demonstrated by the focus for the remaining years of
      the PDP (until 2016) on interventions that will increase the resilience and adaptive capacities of
      communities. As outlined in Chapter 9 of the Midterm Update, the PDP aims for an annual increase
      in the level of investments for climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction and management.
      This will entail promotion of climate/disaster resilient infrastructure for which innovative financing
      will need to be designed. The government is also set to invest in developing and adopting more
      effective vulnerability assessment tools to identify highly susceptible communities and prevent and
      mitigate potential disaster impacts.
37. The GOP has expanded the use of financial instruments to build financial resilience at the
      sovereign level, as a major step toward managing the Government’s fiscal exposure to natural
      hazard impacts. In 2014 the GOP signed a US$500 million contingent line of credit with the Japan
      International Cooperation Agency (JICA) 16 , US$150 million of which it drew down to support
      Typhoon Yolanda recovery efforts. This instrument was modeled by JICA on the World Bank’s CAT-
      DDO, illustrating the continuing relevance of such instruments to the GOP, as part of its broader
      disaster risk financing strategy (developed under the CAT-DDO).
38. GOP elected neither to renew nor avail of the revolving feature of the loan because the JICA
      contingent credit instrument was developed and became available with more favorable pricing
      conditions. Furthermore, prepayment of the loan would have been necessary for renewal. The
      improved fiscal space and emergency loans from both the Asian Development Bank and the World
      Bank after Typhoon Yolanda further supported the decision not to renew the CAT-DDO.
39. The DPL with a CAT-DDO was complemented by other World Bank activities, notably, the
      Bank’s Programmatic Technical Assistance (Support to the Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction
      and Management Agenda). It was aligned with the targets identified for DRRM and CCA as part of
      the CAS for FY10 - FY13, as well as the policy areas of the CAT-DDO, through the activities
      mentioned in Section 2.2, paragraph 17.


3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
40. The DPL with a CAT-DDO enhanced the Government’s capacity to manage the impacts of
      natural disasters in accordance with the National DRRM Plan and the goals outlined in the
      Philippine Development Plan 2011-2016. While establishing a direct causal relationship between



16
     http://www.jica.go.jp/english/news/press/2013/140319_03.html



                                                                    9
      policy actions supported by the project and the Government’s capacity to manage disaster risk is
      complex, the standard three-year implementation period of the CAT-DDO instrument enabled a
      sustained DRM policy dialogue led by the Department of Finance. The DOF’s role as implementing
      agency for the CAT-DDO provided the impetus for their deep involvement in the coordination of
      DRM-related policy actions across both oversight and line agencies, despite not being one of the four
      Vice-Chairs of the National DRRM Council. This also stimulated action in the new policy area of
      financial protection against the impacts of disasters, as an integral part of both broader disaster risk
      management as well as the Government’s overall fiscal risk management strategy. The operation’s
      three Policy Action Areas had linked indicators that are the bases for assessing the achievement of the
      PDO. The program has achieved or exceeded the key outcome indicators, as formulated in the Program
      Document, and described in further detail below.

Action Area 1: Strengthen the institutional capacity for disaster risk management efforts
Rating: Substantial
      •   All 80 provinces of the country have established fully functional DRRM offices with the
          corresponding budget allocations and at least four statutory DRRM positions in every
          province, substantially exceeding the CAT-DDO target of 14 provinces. Similarly, over 1,487
          cities and municipalities have established Local DRRM Offices. The National DRRM Council
          (NDRRMC), DILG, the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) and the Civil Service
          Commission issued Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2014-1 in April 2014 17, setting forth the
          implementing guidelines for the establishment of Local DRRM offices and Barangay DRRM
          Committees in LGUs. DILG is monitoring progress in the functionality of the Local DRRM
          Offices through the annual Seal of Good Local Governance.
      •   NDRRMC developed a monitoring system to track disaster-related financing. In order to
          enhance NDRRMC’s monitoring capacity, an online software platform called the Project
          Monitoring and Evaluation System for DRM (PMESD) was designed in 2011 and development
          was completed in September 2013. Training has been provided to the Office of Civil Defense to
          manage and operate the system on behalf of the NDRRMC. The PMESD was designed to be an
          organizational tool for OCD, with an immediate objective of allowing the agency to systematize
          relevant information. The underlying design of the PMESD was based on OCD workflows,
          including but not limited to PFM requirements (primarily budgeting and reporting), disaster impact
          monitoring, and rescue and response actions (per OCD’s mandate under the DRRM Act). However,
          fundamental challenges pertaining to OCD’s organizational capacity constrained the full
          operationalization of PMESD. This was compounded by challenges associated with the Typhoon
          Yolanda response and reconstruction effort, which have led to new demands and requirements for
          generating comprehensive financial and physical monitoring of post-disaster recovery and
          reconstruction spending. In this context, three related engagements have emerged – Foreign Aid
          Transparency Hub (FAiTH), http://www.gov.ph/faith/, and Open Reconstruction
          (http://openreconstruction.gov.ph/), and e-Management Platform: Accountability and
          Transparency Hub for Yolanda (eMPATHY). eMPATHY was developed within OPARR (with
          assistance of the UNDP) and uses the same technology as the PMESD. The Bank has
          recommended that it would be optimal for the systems to be linked, inter-operable and to share


17
     http://www.ndrrmc.gov.ph/attachments/article/1173/JMC2014-1%20_LDRRMOs.pdf

                                                             10
           data as part of an overall DRM information system. The leadership for DRRM expenditure
           tracking is increasingly being provided by the Department of Budget and Management, which (as
           an oversight agency) has the authority to promote coordination on fiscal spending. The DBM’s
           involvement improves the sustainability of progress related to monitoring disaster-related
           financing.
      •    Guidelines on the use of the Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund
           (LDRRMF) were issued. The DILG issued Memorandum Circular No. 2012-73 on April 17,
           2012 18 to provide guidance on the eligible expenditures to be supported by the LDRRMF. This
           was followed by the Commission on Audit (COA) Circular No. 2012-002 dated September 12,
           2012 19 , which stipulates the reporting and accounting procedures for the LDRRMF. Joint
           Memorandum Circular No. 2013-1 was issued by the NDRRMC, DBM, and DILG on March 25,
           2013 20 to clarify the allocation and utilization of the LDRRMF for ex-ante (70%) and ex-post
           (30%) measures (Quick Response Fund). It further clarified provisions in the DRRM Act regarding
           the establishment of a trust fund for unspent LDRRMF proceeds that may accumulate over five
           years. These guidelines enable LGUs to provide budgets for their DRRM plans, and account for
           these budgets in accordance with government rules and regulations.
      •    NDRRMC has rolled out training programs for government authorities to conduct post-
           disaster needs assessments and emergency preparedness drills. Fifteen sector-specific
           Guidance Notes were developed and have been locally adopted to become the framework for the
           Philippine post-disaster needs assessment methodology. These Guidance Notes were used in a
           formal training program for OCD staff, followed by training roll-out and application of the
           methods by staff of various member agencies of the National Disaster Risk Reduction and
           Management Council during the PDNAs conducted after Typhoons Pablo in 2012 (international
           codename: Bopha) and Yolanda. The PDNAs constituted the real-life application of the training,
           and the NDRRMC/OCD will continue the capacity building as part of the OCD’s regular training
           and emergency preparedness drill program. Multi-sectoral disaster preparedness drills and training
           are conducted periodically by the member agencies of the NDRRMC, as part of the National
           DRRM Plan’s long-term goal on disaster preparedness. Key training activities under the Plan
           include simulation of scenario-based preparedness and response plans, and incident command and
           communication systems.
41. The Philippines has made important progress in strengthening institutional capacities for
      disaster risk management. Policy frameworks, institutions, and national and local plans to manage
      the risks of natural disasters have been introduced and strengthened over the CAT-DDO
      implementation period. Substantial progress has been made by the Government in shifting emphasis
      from emergency response to disaster preparedness, risk reduction and financial protection. Moreover,
      there has been a noticeable increase in DRM awareness, knowledge, and practice across various
      sectors and levels of government. The Government has invested substantial resources for ex ante
      initiatives, particularly in the area of LGU capacity building.
42. National government agencies have provided support to local governments for disaster risk
      reduction. DILG has recently expanded its assessment of LGU performance to include DRM


18
     http://www.dilg.gov.ph/PDF_File/issuances/memo_circulars/DILG-Memo_Circular-2012423-8a32c95747.pdf
19
     http://www.coa.gov.ph/whats_new/2012/coacir/COA_C2012-002.pdf
20
     http://www.dbm.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/Issuances/2013/Joint%20Memorandum%20Circular/JMC2013-1.pdf

                                                              11
     preparedness in their Seal of Good Local Governance. A block grant (through the Grassroots
     Participatory Budgeting Program) will be provided to LGUs to support identified priorities such as
     construction of evacuation centers, disaster preparedness audits, and guidelines on the preparation of
     Local Climate Change Action Plans. LGUs (through the established DRRM offices) are now
     integrating disaster risk considerations into local plans using guidelines recently issued by the Housing
     and Land Use Regulatory Board on risk-informed land use planning.
43. The National Community Driven Development program (implemented by DSWD) targets 900
     of the poorest municipalities in the country. A number of the National CDD program’s innovations
     that are linked to the CAT-DDO policy framework have increased local government capacity for
     DRM, including: (i) improving inclusion of vulnerable areas by strengthening diagnostic tools and
     facilitation skills; (ii) encouraging investments that address disaster risks; and (iii) broadening
     partnership arrangements, particularly with the Department of Interior and Local Government, linking
     CDD to local government planning processes.
44. LGU capacity to build on national government support and resources was enhanced by the
     CAT-DDO policy actions on developing Local DRRM Offices and clear guidelines on the use of
     Local DRRM Funds. For example, there has been significant improvement in LGUs’ ability to
     prepare for disasters through the use of: (i) forecasts provided by the Philippine Atmospheric,
     Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA) to guide LGUs and communities;
     (ii) better hazard maps, particularly for LGUs located along major river basins; and (iii) pre-disaster
     risk assessments implemented by the Office of Civil Defense through the deployment of teams to
     provide advice to LGUs on preparedness actions.
45. Experience from recent major events offer an illustration of steadily improving disaster
     preparedness and management. Before Typhoon Yolanda made landfall in November 2013, about
     27,000 families (over 125,000 people) were evacuated to 109 evacuation centers in 22 provinces in
     the affected regions. DSWD pre‐positioned PhP 195 million worth of emergency relief resources
     consisting of standby funds, family food packs and other relief items. Four days after Yolanda cleared
     the Philippines, DPWH was able to clear major roads of debris, which compares favorably with
     international good practice.
46. This 2013 performance can be compared to the preparedness measures in December 2014, when
     Typhoon Hagupit (international code name: Ruby) was forecast to be the strongest storm of that
     year in the world. Prior to Hagupit's landfall, about 150,000 families (over 700,000 people) sought
     refuge in approximately 150-200 designated evacuation centers spread across 49 provinces. Particular
     emphasis was placed on forecast-based evacuations along the typhoon's projected path, especially in
     highly exposed zones (such as coastal, low-lying and other flood-prone areas). DSWD mobilized
     emergency relief resources worth PhP 405 million. According to the UN, this was one of the largest
     peacetime emergency evacuation operations in history 21. Casualties and economic losses were
     minimized and community-level recovery could start as early as possible.




21
  http://www.unog.ch/unog/website/news_media.nsf/%28httpNewsByYear_en%29/5435489DF4BAFF91C1257DA500470450?OpenDoc
ument


                                                       12
Action Area 2: Mainstream Disaster Risk Reduction into development planning
Rating: High
     •   Seventy-two of 80 provinces have mainstreamed climate change adaptation and disaster risk
         reduction measures into their Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans
         (PDPFP), exceeding the CAT-DDO Policy Matrix target of 30 provinces. Sixty-nine of the 72
         provinces have already had their plans approved by their respective Governors and Provincial
         Planning and Development Councils (PPDC), while the remaining three are awaiting their
         Governors’ approval. NEDA is leading a very intensive exercise of risk assessment, prioritization,
         and budgeting, which has led to various reforms at the provincial level, including review of land
         use plans and establishment of new zoning regulations. Implementation of the plans is strongly
         influenced by local leadership and capacities.
     •   Disaster risk reduction measures have been mainstreamed into three sectors: health,
         transport, and social development.
             i.    Health: The Department of Health (DOH) has expanded coverage of its Safe Hospitals
                   Program in accordance with WHO guidelines. It has conducted functional and structural
                   assessments of 199 hospitals in Luzon, exceeding the CAT-DDO target of 100 health
                   facilities. These hospitals, both in the public and private sectors, were evaluated based on
                   agreed indicators of structural, non-structural, and functional capacities in order to inform
                   investment decisions for meeting the identified gaps. The DOH is also planning to
                   undertake a similar assessment for the Visayas and Mindanao regions.
           ii.     Transport: The Department of Public Works and Highways has completed
                   retrofitting/reconstruction of 10 bridges in Metro Manila 22, meeting the target specified in
                   the Policy Matrix. In 2011, DPWH conducted a structural vulnerability assessment of all
                   bridges along national roads in Metro Manila and identified 56 bridges for retrofitting,
                   major repair and/or reconstruction, of which 18 have been funded, and the aforementioned
                   10 have been completed. In 2013, DPWH completed an assessment of the structural
                   condition of all bridges along national roads throughout the country to further inform
                   prioritization and budgeting.
           iii.    Social Development: Community development and social protection programs continue to
                   be enhanced to better address disaster risks through the Department of Social Welfare and
                   Development’s (DSWD) flagship poverty reduction programs, Pantawid Pamilya (4Ps)
                   and KALAHI-CIDSS/National Community Driven Development Program (KC-NCDDP).
                   The target of 1,000 communities identified in the Policy Matrix for DRRM training was
                   substantially exceeded, with over 24,000 communities covered through the DRRM module
                   in DSWD’s Family Development Sessions (FDS). DSWD has now prepared a new
                   Disaster Response Operations Manual that provides more comprehensive training to
                   communities under KC-NCDDP. Between October and December 2014, an initial 14,000
                   plus communities in over 550 municipalities were trained on DRRM using the new manual.


22
   DPWH has completed retrofitting/reconstruction for the following 10 bridges in Metro Manila: (1) Spine, (2) Honorio Lopez, (3) Deparo
– Camarin, (4) Mariablo I, (5) Catmon, (6) MNDR Flyover crossing NLEX, (7) Lingunan, (8) Viente Reales, (9) Malinta-Santolan, and (10)
Estrella.

                                                                  13
               In addition, DSWD has established community-based post-disaster response windows in
               the four target field offices under the KALAHI-CIDSS program and the roll-out of post-
               disaster windows to 16 regional DSWD field offices commenced in July. This allows for
               emergency procedures (expediting sub-project approval) to be activated upon the
               declaration of a state of calamity, enabling CDD funds to be used for relief, response and
               recovery.
47. Provincial level investment planning is increasingly mainstreaming resilience to natural
   disasters. Through the integration of climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction measures
   into 72 Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans, both spatial and investment planning
   is informed by exposure and vulnerability to disasters. An M&E tool in the form of a results matrix
   for mainstreaming DRR and CCA was issued by the National Economic and Development Authority
   to guide investment decisions at the provincial level.
48. Resilience to natural disasters has likewise been mainstreamed into planning for key sectors. In
   the health and transport sectors, the CAT-DDO policy framework has supported vulnerability
   assessments and structural audits of hospitals and infrastructure to prioritize risk reduction investments
   such as retrofitting and structural upgrading. A similar prioritization study was conducted for public
   schools in Metro Manila through technical assistance from the Bank (see Section 3.5 (c)).
49. The DSWD’s Pantawid Pamilya Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Program helped the
   government respond rapidly after Yolanda. As part of the CAT-DDO policy framework, the
   Pantawid program enables conditions for cash transfers to be suspended upon the declaration of a
   State of Calamity. With a delivery mechanism already in place, the Government was able to target
   and channel post-disaster humanitarian efforts better. The network of CCT implementers and the
   leadership in municipalities assisted in identifying families that could be enrolled for various recovery
   programs, such as cash-for-work and cash-for-asset rebuilding. The Philippines’ use of social
   protection systems as a platform to deliver assistance after a disaster demonstrates the depth of
   integration of DRM in the Government’s regular programs.

Action Area 3: Better manage the Government’s fiscal exposure to natural hazard impacts
Rating: High
   •   The Department of Finance has prepared its Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance (DRFI)
       strategy. The DRFI Strategy, the associated Action Plan, and an investment plan for donor
       consideration were presented by the Secretary of Finance at the Political Champions Group
       Insurance Initiative in July 2014. The Strategy has the overarching goal of increasing the financial
       resilience of the government and communities to natural disasters, and sets forth strategic priorities
       to support this goal, namely: (i) improving, at the national level, the financing of post-disaster
       emergency response, recovery, and reconstruction needs; (ii) providing local governments with
       funds for post-disaster recovery and reconstruction; and (iii) empowering poor and vulnerable
       households and small and medium enterprises to quickly restore their livelihoods after a disaster.
       These priorities will be achieved with a combination of risk financing instruments to protect the
       different levels against events of different frequency and severity. The combination and design of
       the specific instruments is currently being supported by the World Bank Group through an
       integrated program of technical assistance.



                                                    14
50. GOP’s DRFI Strategy was underpinned by the Catastrophe Risk Assessment for the Philippines,
       supported through the Bank’s Programmatic DRM AAA. This assessment is a state-of-the-art
       probabilistic model of the natural catastrophe risk faced by the country, and provides the GOP with an
       overview of potential disaster losses to public and private assets. It provides an in-depth analysis to
       help understand the long-term average annual expected losses from disasters and the corresponding
       contingent liability and social impacts. The model allows GOP to analyze the costs and benefits of
       various risk financing instruments as well as their optimal combination, and is the technical basis for
       the design of sovereign risk finance instruments.
51. The Government is progressively reducing its fiscal exposure to natural disasters through
       expanded options for risk financing. The DRRM Act allows for the DRRM Fund to be used for
       disaster risk reduction purposes (e.g., preparedness and mitigation programs, training and procurement
       of equipment, construction of evacuation centers and other facilities, payments for insurance policies),
       in addition to post-disaster relief and rehabilitation. The allocation to the Fund increased from
       approximately PhP2.7 billion in 2006 to PhP7.5 billion in 201323.
52. Implementation of the Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance strategy developed by the
       Government under the CAT-DDO policy framework has been launched through an Action Plan
       to establish risk financing mechanisms. The newly initiated Programmatic DRM AAA (2014-2016)
       will support the continued use of catastrophe risk modeling as the analytical basis for DRFI
       applications and policies, in accordance with the Government’s DRFI strategy. This will be
       complemented by continuing technical assistance on DRFI, in the areas of: (i) Improving the financing
       of post-disaster emergency response, recovery, and reconstruction needs through market based risk
       transfer and a fiscal risk profile for the national government; (ii) Providing local governments with
       funds for recovery and reconstruction after a disaster through the design of parametric insurance for
       emergency losses and indemnity-based insurance for public assets; and (iii) Risk analysis tools to
       enable evidence-based decision making and to support the design and placement of catastrophe risk
       insurance products.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
53. The objectives of the CAT-DDO were highly relevant, the relevance of the design and
       implementation were substantial, and all policy targets of the CAT DDO were achieved.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
54. The DPL with a CAT-DDO supported the mitigation of the poverty impacts of disasters through
       the linkage of the policy matrix with the Bank’s ongoing social development operations. This
       was achieved through the enhancement of the National CDD Program as well as the Pantawid Pamilya
       Conditional Cash Transfer Program to better address disaster risks. As mentioned in the previous
       section, these social protection systems are being used as a platform to deliver assistance after disasters,


23
     World Bank. 2012. Disaster Risk Finance Mechanisms in the Philippines: A Stocktaking Exercise.

                                                                   15
      most notably after Typhoon Yolanda. Pantawid Pamilya provided 100,000 households with an
      additional cash support of PhP 1,300 per family per month for December 2013 and January 2014, over
      and above the regular DSWD grant that beneficiaries received 24. The assistance covered some 60
      municipalities in the hardest-hit provinces of Leyte, Samar and Panay Island.
55. The operation was prepared in 2010 (prior to the current institutional requirements regarding
      gender analysis) and the policy targets were not gender focused. However, the program was
      informed by the Post-Disaster Needs Assessment after Typhoon Ondoy in 2009, which included the
      gender and social impacts of the disaster.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
56. The DPL with a CAT-DDO supported substantial increases in government capacity at the
      national and local government levels. Institutional capacity was strengthened through the
      establishment of the DRRM offices at the provincial level as well as in cities and municipalities.
      NDRRMC training programs on Post-Disaster Needs Assessments were repeatedly applied, most
      notably after Typhoons Pablo and Yolanda. DOF is now fully conversant with the principles of
      Catastrophe Risk Modeling, and how these can be used as the analytical basis for DRFI applications
      and policies. GOP is also demonstrating increased capacity for engagement with the international
      reinsurance and capital markets.
57. The NDRRMC has triggered the process for the review of the DRRM Act, in accordance with
      its sunset clause25. At the request of NEDA, this review is being supported by the Programmatic DRM
      AAA for 2015. The Vice Chairs of the NDRRMC are gathering the information necessary to facilitate
      a more effective review, including documentation of lessons learned from Yolanda, experiences
      related to post-disaster assessments, coordination and partnership, a new or improved institutional
      model for DRM in the Philippines, more effective implementation arrangements and modalities for
      recovery and reconstruction, among others.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
58. The Bank’s Programmatic Technical Assistance that was provided during project
      implementation supported dialogue with the Department of Public Works and Highways
      (DPWH), the Department of Education, and other key line agencies on improving the resilience
      of critical infrastructure and public facilities to natural disasters. A prioritization methodology
      for upgrading and retrofitting of critical assets in Metro Manila was developed under this engagement.
      Preliminary results of the prioritization show that by systematically strengthening the most vulnerable
      public school buildings in Metro Manila, the number of projected fatalities from the M7.2 Metro
      Manila Earthquake Impact Reduction Study 26 scenario earthquake can be greatly reduced.
      Strengthening the most vulnerable 5% (200) of school buildings can reduce the number of student
      fatalities by 25% (over 6,000 student lives saved). The Department of Education has requested support



24
     http://www.dswd.gov.ph/2014/01/dswd-wfp-give-cash-aid-to-pantawid-pamilya-beneficiaries-in-yolanda-areas/
25
   Republic Act 10121. Section 27. Sunset Review. - Within five (5) years after the effectivity of this Act, or as the need arises, the
Congressional Oversight Committee shall conduct a sunset review. For purposes of this Act, the term "sunset review" shall mean a systematic
evaluation by the Congressional Oversight Committee of the accomplishments and impact of this Act, as well as the performance and
organizational structure of its implementing agencies, for purposes of determining remedial legislation.
26
   http://www.phivolcs.dost.gov.ph/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=419:mmeirs&catid=66

                                                                   16
   from the Programmatic AAA for the development of mechanisms to mobilize the design and
   construction community to ensure that appropriate designs, standards, and practices are adhered to
   both for new construction and for reconstruction of classrooms and school buildings.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Moderate
59. There is a Moderate risk that the frequency and magnitude of natural disasters in the
   Philippines, particularly in light of climate change, may strain the Government’s capacity to
   manage the impacts of these events. Implementation of the DRFI strategy will reduce the
   Government’s fiscal exposure to natural disasters, and mitigate such impacts as the need to re-allocate
   resources from development programs to humanitarian response and recovery efforts after a disaster.
   The Government is also making a sustained effort to decrease losses from disasters over time. The
   Government’s commitment to, and the CAT-DDO’s support for, the decentralization of disaster risk
   management to Local Government Units also mitigates the risk to the projects outcomes.
60. The DPL with a CAT-DDO supported the institutionalization of the Government’s capacity to
   manage the impacts of natural disasters, thus enabling the sustainability of the development
   outcomes. The Government provided funding to support the policy action areas, and ownership of
   the program among national and local government agencies was ensured by aligning the policy
   framework with their regular programs. The NDRRMC and DOF both took the lead on coordinating
   policy actions, and parallel technical assistance was provided by the Bank to strengthen institutional
   capacity at both the national and local levels. Disaster risk management remains a cross-cutting area
   within the Philippine Development Plan, as reinforced through the Midterm Update released in April
   2014. The risk of loss of continued Government commitment and support to disaster risk management
   is low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory
   a. Quality at Entry:
61. The project design was robust, as it built upon lessons learned in other operations to ensure that
   it was driven by the Government, with clear commitment to, and ownership of, the policy actions
   among the stakeholders. The Policy Matrix was well aligned with the Philippine DRRM Act,
   Framework and Plan. The strategic relevance of the CAT-DDO was ensured by aligning the policy
   action areas with the strategic objectives of the Government’s own policy framework, which the Bank
   reviewed and found to be adequate. Accountability for the outcomes was in accordance with the
   National DRRM Framework and the institutional setup of the National DRRM Council. The sole
   trigger for disbursement of the CAT-DDO was a Presidential Declaration of a State of Calamity,
   providing immediate liquidity in the aftermath of a disaster.

                                                   17
62. At appraisal, the Bank correctly assessed that the country had a sound macroeconomic policy
      framework. Even though the high public debt ratio at the time posed a risk to macroeconomic
      stability, the gradual pace of fiscal deficit and debt reduction represented a compromise between
      several tradeoffs. In particular, the slower pace of deficit reduction helped facilitate the budgetary shift
      toward greater social sector spending that was initiated in the 2011 budget, instead of forcing the
      Government to embark on a more austere spending program that could have resulted in spending cuts
      in priority sectors. This approach enabled the Government to support its sectoral programs that were
      embedded in the CAT-DDO policy framework.
63. The Bank designed the operation on the basis of analytical work to determine priority policy
      areas at both the national and local levels. Economic and sector work (Natural Disaster Risk
      Management in the Philippines: Enhancing poverty alleviation through disaster reduction 27 ) was
      undertaken in 2004 to determine gaps in the Government’s capacity to mitigate disaster risks. Since
      2008, a GFDRR-supported technical assistance program had been in place, which identified the most
      vulnerable provinces in the country, assessed gaps in mechanisms for disaster recovery financing, and
      proposed systems and tools for LGUs to improve their capacities for disaster risk management. The
      CAT-DDO was designed (together with the DRFI team and World Bank Treasury) based on these and
      other key analytical work on international good practice in disaster risk management and disaster risk
      financing. The policy targets are comprehensive and address the five pillars of effective disaster risk
      management 28 , namely: (i) risk identification; (ii) risk reduction; (iii) preparedness; (iv) financial
      protection; and (v) planning for disaster recovery.

(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory
64. The Bank undertook regular supervision missions and implemented linked DRM Technical
      Assistance activities to provide support throughout implementation. The Bank maintained a close
      policy dialogue with the Government and relevant stakeholders during the implementation of the
      program. The Bank conducted regular implementation support missions (at least semi-annually) to
      carry out substantive reviews, including progress assessments of the policy framework, in order to
      identify and address threats to the achievement of the development outcomes. Continuous dialogue
      and technical assistance were provided to support the integration of the PMESD with the broader
      public financial management system after Typhoon Yolanda. Multi-sectoral policy actions, as well as
      targets involving the development of strategies for financial protection against disasters were
      monitored and supported through close collaboration between Bank operational staff, DRFI Team and
      World Bank Treasury.
65. Implementation Status and Results reports (ISRs) were filed regularly to document progress,
      even after the loan proceeds were fully disbursed (when Bank systems reported the operation as
      closed and did not required ISRs). Adequate transition arrangements have been put into place
      through the Bank’s Programmatic DRM AAA for 2014 – 2016, which will carry forward the action
      areas of the CAT-DDO and support the sustainability of the development outcomes.




27
     http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTEAPREGTOPENVIRONMENT/Resources/PH_Disaster_Risk_Mgmt.pdf
28
  The five pillars of disaster risk management are outlined in the World Bank-GFDRR Sendai Report: Managing Disaster Risks for a
Resilient Future (http://www.gfdrr.org/sites/gfdrr/files/publication/Sendai_Report_051012_0.pdf).

                                                              18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory
66. Overall Bank Performance is rated satisfactory, based on the combined ratings of Quality at Entry and
   Quality of Supervision.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory
67. Government performance is rated satisfactory.             The Government ensured the quality of
   preparation and implementation through sustained dialogue with the Bank. Senior officials of the
   Department of Finance were appointed to coordinate policy actions under the CAT-DDO framework,
   particularly the implementation of the DRFI strategy, which is continuing beyond loan closing. The
   enabling environment included supportive macro-economic, sectoral, and institutional policies that
   were appropriate to country circumstances. Despite the global financial crisis the government
   maintained a sound macro-economic environment, posting sustained economic growth. The
   Department of Finance convened a Technical Working Group consisting of the CAT-DDO
   stakeholder agencies, as well as other oversight and line agencies. The TWG functioned as a platform
   for coordination and monitoring of the Policy Actions during project implementation.
68. Toward the achievement of the development outcomes in each policy area, and in accordance
   with the National DRRM Plan:
   a. NDRRMC and DILG strengthened institutional capacities for DRM at both the national and local
      levels. The administration of the Office of Civil Defense experienced a number of changes during
      project implementation, including reductions in technical staff. While this posed challenges to a
      few policy actions, all targets were still substantially met.
   b. NEDA progressively integrated DRM in provincial and sectoral planning.
   c. Line agencies (the Departments of Health, Public Works & Highways, and Social Welfare &
      Development) all substantially exceeded their respective targets under the CAT-DDO policy
      framework and are continuing to expand on these actions through their regular programs.
   d. DOF launched implementation of actions to support the DRFI strategy, thereby reducing fiscal
      exposure to natural disasters.
69. In general, the Government showed strong commitment to the implementation of the disaster
   risk management agenda. Moreover, the government maintained considerable fiscal space to make
   investments to catalyze private ventures, restore public goods and services, and fund social programs.
   These were all aimed at reducing the poverty impacts of disasters and moving forward with resilient
   recovery and reconstruction.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Not applicable
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory


                                                   19
70. Since there is no Implementing Agency, the overall rating is the same as that for Government
     Performance.


6. Lessons Learned
71. For DRM policy frameworks with multiple action areas across different sectors, a dialogue
     should be initiated with various line agencies during project preparation and implementation.
     A wide range of stakeholders including line agencies, civil society, the private sector, and academia,
     can contribute to DRM through their regular programs. A strong consultation process to develop
     outcomes based on Government priorities can raise awareness of DRM across sectors. The process of
     designing the operation and convening of stakeholders, via a Working Group, can provide a venue for
     mainstreaming DRM in sectoral development.
72. Development Policy Operations with CAT-DDOs can provide an entry point for introducing
     broader concepts for Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance. As a form of contingent credit, the
     CAT-DDO is an affordable source of financing 29 and complements existing market-based disaster risk
     financing instruments such as insurance, catastrophe bonds, reserve funds, etc. These instruments can
     be used in combination to retain the risk from smaller, more frequent events, or to transfer the risk
     from less frequent, higher-impact events, based on an assessment of risks, desired coverage, available
     budget, and cost efficiency. These assessments can be supported through technical assistance, and
     implemented as part of a country’s overall DRFI strategy.
73. The ‘soft trigger’ for disbursement, which is a standard feature of the CAT-DDO instrument,
     needs to be supported by strong analytics in order to optimize the timing of drawdowns. While
     full appreciation of contingent credit was developed during the policy dialogue on DRFI under the
     CAT-DDO, the characteristics of the instrument were very novel for the GOP at the time of the
     operation’s effectiveness. However, as the DOF and other agencies in the Technical Working Group
     gained a better appreciation of DRFI principles over the lifetime of the CAT-DDO, decision-making
     has become better informed. The DRFI Strategy helped DOF to develop a rational framework for
     considering the various options for post-disaster financing instruments, including amounts, timing and
     combinations (including the use of the more favorably priced contingent credit instrument signed with
     JICA).
74. Department/Ministry of Finance’s role as implementing agency for CAT-DDOs can provide the
     impetus for their deeper involvement in the coordination of DRM-related policy actions. As a
     DPL, CAT-DDOs provide the opportunity to elevate DRM issues to oversight agencies (in particular,
     Departments of Finance, Economic Development/Planning and Budget) that may not otherwise be
     deeply engaged in the policy dialogue.
75. The implementation of a programmatic technical assistance engagement to support the policy
     areas of the CAT-DDO can facilitate substantive policy dialogue and effective implementation
     even after full disbursement of the loan. It is important for the Bank to allocate adequate resources
     for implementation assistance and technical assistance to support achievement of project outcomes



29
    Preliminary analyses of the CAT-DDO instrument (in general) estimate that the expected net present value of the cost of the CAT-DDO
is at least 30% lower than the cost of insurance for medium risk layers (that is, a disaster occurring once every three years), depending on
market conditions (http://www.gfdrr.org/sites/gfdrr.org/files/documents/DRFI_CatDDO_ProductNote_Jan11.pdf).

                                                                    20
   and leverage the TA engagement to sustain the policy dialogue with a broad set of stakeholders
   relevant to disaster risk management.
76. Complementarity between ongoing World Bank investment projects and the CAT-DDO can
   generate mutual leverage for achieving development objectives. This was particularly well
   illustrated by the policy actions related to addressing disaster risks in Community Driven Development
   and Conditional Cash Transfer operations, whereby the CAT-DDO provided the policy framework to
   pursue reforms which were implemented through the investment projects.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
1. The Borrower commented that the Disbursement amount should be the entire US$500 million rather
than US$497.5 million net of upfront fee for consistency. The full Disbursed Amount of US$500 million
is reflected in Table A (Basic Information) of the Data Sheet.
2. The Borrower commented that with all the six (6) indicators achieved way beyond targets, rating should
be better than Satisfactory (that is, Highly Satisfactory). The Bank, even in international fora, often
highlights the GOP experience in tapping CAT DDO as a good liquidity instrument during disaster. GOP
is also often being showcased as a good practice model in the region in terms of DRRM and DRFI which
resulted from good collaboration with the Bank, among other development partners. While the operation
achieved its objectives and, in many cases, exceeded targets, the Satisfactory rating is retained due to
minor shortcomings in the operationalization of the monitoring system to track disaster-related financing.
3. The Borrower commented that Indicator 6 should reflect that this is "Achieved" inasmuch as the DOF
has already developed and put in place as the guiding principle the DRFI strategy. This has been reflected
in Section F.(a) of the Data Sheet.
4. The Borrower commented that renewal of CAT DDO for Yolanda rehabilitation was not made not only
because of the JICA loan that was contracted in March 2014 but also because the facility (CAT DDO)
was fully drawn in 2014 and the only way to exercise the revolving feature of the loan is to prepay. The
Borrower further commented that it made no sense to prepay the CAT DDO during the aftermath of
Yolanda to allow renewal. Also, the improved fiscal space which was also recognized by the report
provided more resources for Yolanda rehabilitation and recovery. In addition, emergency assistance loans
from ADB and WB totaling US$1.0 billion were also made available immediately after Yolanda. This
comment has been reflected in Section 3.1.b, Relevance of Design and Implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                   21
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                      Responsibility/
               Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Zoe Elena Trohanis                Senior Urban Specialist       GSURR Task Team Leader
Issam Abousleiman                 Country Manager               LCCCO Treasury
                                  Senior Infrastructure
Victor Dato                                                     GTIDR     Transport
                                  Specialist
                                  Senior Social
Patricia Fernandes                                              GSURR Social Development
                                  Development Specialist
                                  Financial Management
Stephen Paul Hartung                                            GGODR FM
                                  Specialist
Demilour Reyes Ignacio            Program Assistant             GWADR     Operations/Team support
Minneh Mary Kane                  Lead Counsel                  LEGES     Legal
Eric LeBorgne                     Lead Economist                GMFDR     Political Economics
Miguel Navarro Martin             Lead Financial Officer        FABBK     Treasury
Christopher T. Pablo              Senior Urban Specialist       GSURR     Urban
                                  Senior Social
Maria Loreto Padua                                              GSURR Social Development
                                  Development Specialist
Roberto Antonio F. Rosadia        Health Specialist             GHNDR Health
                                  Financial Management
Tomas Sta. Maria                                                GGODR FM
                                  Specialist
Zuzana Stanton-Geddes             Operations Analyst            GSURR Operations/Team Support
                                  Senior Social
Matthew Stephens                                                GSURR Social Development
                                  Development Specialist
Karl Kendrick Tiu Chua            Senior Economist              GMFDR Political Economics
                                  Senior Environmental
Josefo Tuyor                                                    OPSOR Safeguards
                                  Specialist
                                  Disaster Risk                 GSURR
Catherine Vidar                                                           Disaster Risk Management
                                  Management Specialist
Yan F. Zhang                      Senior Urban Economist        GSURR Urban
Ivailo Ivorski                    Practice Manager              GMFDR Peer Reviewer
                                  Lead Disaster Risk
Christoph Pusch                                                 GSURR Peer Reviewer
                                  Management Specialist
                                  Senior Disaster Risk
Jose C. Joaquin Toro Landivar                                   GSURR Peer Reviewer
                                  Management Specialist

Supervision
                             Senior Disaster Risk Management            GSURR
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson                                                          Task Team Leader
                             Specialist
Christopher C. Ancheta       Senior Sanitary Engineer                GWADR Operations/Engineering
                                                                     GSURR Disaster Risk Finance and
Abigail Baca                 Infrastructure Specialist
                                                                            Insurance
Victor Dato                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist         GTIDR Transport


                                                         22
Demilour Reyes Ignacio     Program Assistant                     GWADR Operations/Team Support
                           Senior Social Development
Maria Loreto Padua                                               GSURR Social Development
                           Specialist
Hector Ibarra Pando        Lead Financial Officer                FABBK Treasury
Lynette Perez              Senior Education Specialist           GEDDR Education
Roberto Antonio F. Rosadia Health Specialist                     GHNDR Health
Artessa Saldivar-Sali      Municipal Engineer                    GSURR Resilient Infrastructure
                                                                       Disaster Risk Finance and
Benedikt Lukas Signer      Financial Sector Specialist           GFMDR
                                                                       Insurance
                           Senior Social Development
Matthew Stephens                                                 GSURR Social Development
                           Specialist
Mari Anne Trillana         Team Assistant                        GWADR Operations/Team Support
                           Disaster Risk Management              GSURR
Catherine Vidar                                                        Disaster Risk Management
                           Specialist
Felizardo Virtucio Jr.     Operations Officer                    GFADR Agriculture
                                                                       Disaster Risk Finance and
Deanna Therese Villacin    Consultant
                                                                       Insurance
Cameron Wilson             Consultant                                  Operations/Team support




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage                                                   USD Thousands (including
                                                No. of staff weeks
                                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                                     21.56                   96,255.56
FY12                                                      2.18                    5,135.43

                                 Total:                  23.74                  101,360.99
Supervision/ICR
FY12                                                     12.33                   70,123.15
FY13                                                     10.25                   36,080.95
FY14                                                     12.59                   38,981.90
FY15                                                     13.32                   49,360.65

                                 Total:                  48.49                  194,546.65




                                                     23
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         Not Applicable




                                      24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
         Not Applicable




                                           25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The report is very informative and covered quite a lot of areas, demonstrating that CAT DDO came at just
the right time to brace ourselves from the upcoming "new normal" phenomena. The Program went beyond
its financing relevance as it can be considered a catalyst in not only initiating policies towards better
DRRM and developing DRFI strategy, but more so on Government taking the lead role
while mainstreaming these in the over-all development planning even at the sub-national levels.
Nonetheless, let us share some observations:

1. Disbursement amount should be the entire US$500 million rather than US$497.5 million net of upfront
fee for consistency.

2. With all the six (6) indicators achieved way beyond targets, rating should be better than Satisfactory.
The Bank, even in international fora, often highlights the GOP experience in tapping CAT DDO as a good
liquidity instrument during disaster. GOP is also often being showcased as a good practice model in the
region in terms of DRRM and DRFI which resulted from good collaboration with the Bank, among other
development partners.

Indicator 6 should reflect that this is "Achieved" inasmuch as the DOF has already developed and put in
place as the guiding principle the DRFI strategy.

3. Renewal of CAT DDO for Yolanda rehabilitation was not made not only because of the JICA loan that
was contracted in March 2014 but also because the facility (CAT DDO) was fully drawn in 2014 and the
only way to exercise the revolving feature of the loan is to prepay.

It made no sense to prepay the CAT DDO during the aftermath of Yolanda to allow renewal. Also, the
improved fiscal space which was also recognized by the report provided us more resources for Yolanda
rehabilitation and recovery. In addition, emergency assistance loans from ADB and WB totaling US$1.0
billion were also made available immediately after Yolanda.




                                                   26
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
         Not Applicable




                                            27
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Commission on Audit Circular: Accounting and Reporting Guidelines for the Local Disaster
      Risk Reduction and Management Fund (LDRRMF) of Local Government Units (LGUs),
      National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund (NDRRMF) given to LGUs and
      Receipts from Other Sources (http://www.coa.gov.ph/index.php/2013-06-19-13-06-41/1-
      circulars/category/4454-cy-2012)
   2. Declaration of a State of National Calamity after Tropical Storm Sendong
      (http://www.gov.ph/2011/12/20/proclamation-no-303-s-2011/)
   3. Department of the Interior and Local Government Memorandum Circular No. 2012-73 on
      Utilization of Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund
      (http://www.dilg.gov.ph/PDF_File/issuances/memo_circulars/DILG-Memo_Circular-2012423-
      8a32c95747.pdf)
   4. Department of Interior and Local Government Program Briefer: Enhancing LGU Capacity on
      Disaster Risk Reduction and Management and Climate Change Adaptation
   5. Department of Health Pocket Emergency Tool (2012) with Guidelines for Post-Disaster Needs
      Assessments
   6. Department of Public Works & Highways Infrastructure Projects – National Capital Region
      (http://www.dpwh.gov.ph/infrastructure/pms/ncr.asp)
   7. Implementing Guidelines for the Establishment of Local DRRM Offices or Barangay DRRM
      Committees in Local Government Units (http://www.dbm.gov.ph/wp-
      content/uploads/Issuances/2014/Joint%20Memorandum%20Circular%20/JMC2014-
      1%20_LDRRMOs.pdf)
   8. Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2013-1 on Allocation and Utilization of the Local Disaster Risk
      Reduction and Management Fund (http://www.dbm.gov.ph/wp-
      content/uploads/Issuances/2013/Joint%20Memorandum%20Circular/JMC2013-1.pdf)
   9. Memorandum Order No. 62 Providing for the Functions of the Presidential Assistant for
      Rehabilitation and Recovery (http://www.gov.ph/2013/12/06/memorandum-order-no-62-s-
      2013/)
   10. National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Framework
       (http://www.ndrrmc.gov.ph/attachments/article/227/NDRRMFramework.pdf)
   11. National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Plan (2011-2028)
       (http://www.dilg.gov.ph/PDF_File/reports_resources/DILG-Resources-2012116-
       420ac59e31.pdf)
   12. Official Gazette, General Appropriations Act (FY2010): Budget of the Department of Public
       Works and Highways
   13. Official Gazette, General Appropriations Act (FY2012): Budget of the Department of Public
       Works and Highways
   14. Official Gazette, General Appropriations Act (FY2013): Budget of the Department of Public
       Works and Highways

                                                28
15. Philippine Development Plan 2011-2016 (http://www.neda.gov.ph/?p=1128)
16. Philippine Development Plan 2011-2016 Midterm Update (http://plans.neda.gov.ph/pdp)
17. Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act of 2010
    (http://www.gov.ph/2010/05/27/republic-act-no-10121/)
18. Program Document: Report No. 60950-PH
    (http://wbdocs.worldbank.org/wbdocs/drl/objectId/090224b0827a3ea8)
19. Project Concept Note (http://wbdocs.worldbank.org/wbdocs/drl/objectId/090224b080b36dc7)
20. Reconstruction Assistance on Yolanda (http://www.gov.ph/downloads/2013/12dec/20131216-
    RAY.pdf)
21. Safe Hospitals in Emergencies and Disasters – Philippine Indicators for Level 1 to 4 Hospitals
    (http://www.hems.doh.gov.ph/uploads/publication_attachments/1c93ee7879774fea1ec32f87bbf8
    0716a4ec39db.pdf)
22. Signing of Japanese ODA Loan Agreement with the Republic of the Philippines: Immediate
    support for urgent financial requirement for recovery from natural disasters, together with
    capacity enhancement on disaster risk reduction and management
    (http://www.jica.go.jp/english/news/press/2013/140319_03.html)
23. Tropical Storm Sendong Post-Disaster Damage and Needs Assessment
    (http://www.recoveryplatform.org/assets/publication/Final_PDNAReport_13June2012.pdf)




                                                    29
MAP




                     INSERT

                       MAP

                       HERE



                   IBRD 33466R4
      (cleared by Map Unit on February 2, 2015)
