 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14794

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                              Date Posted: 08/19/2015

                 Country: Philippines
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes      No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P125943                                                 Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Disaster Risk                Project Costs (US$M):                       500             497.50
                           Management
                           Development Loan
                           With A Cat Ddo
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                        500              497.50
       Sector Board:       Urban Development         Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  09/13/2011
                                                               Closing Date:            10/31/2014            10/31/2014
          Sector(s):       General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (100%)
         Theme(s):         Natural disaster management (100%)
Evaluator:                 Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Fernando Manibog           George T. K. Pitman Christopher David              IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The Program Document (page 20) states that the project development objective of this Development Policy Loan
(DPL) with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option is:

       "to enhance the capacity of the Government of the Philippines to manage the impacts of natural disasters."

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

The project addressed three disaster risk management (DRM) policy areas:

First Policy Area : Strengthen the institutional capacity for DRM efforts
The actions under this policy area aim to: (i) support the establishment of functional disaster risk reduction
management units; (ii) develop a monitoring system to track disaster-related financing; and (iii) roll out training
programs for government authorities to conduct post-disaster needs assessments and emergency preparedness
drills.

Second Policy Area: Mainstream disaster risk reduction into development planning
This policy area includes actions to: (i) mainstream climate change adaptation and disaster risk management
reduction measures on Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans; and (ii) mainstream disaster risk
reduction measures in the health, transport and social development sectors.
Third Policy Area: Better manage the Government's fiscal exposure to natural hazard impacts
This policy area is focused on the preparation of a catastrophe risk financing strategy by the Department of Finance,
in order to address remaining areas that need reform, such as:
   Ensuring that public assets are insured at replacement value
   Linking mortgage lending with catastrophe insurance
   Review of risk financing options by the private sector
   Harmonizing the tax on insurance premiums to encourage further development of the local insurance market
   Setting-up of a Catastrophe Recovery Financing Pool for Local Government Units
   Encouraging further innovation in the micro-insurance sector for the poorest segments of society


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

The DPL was a single tranche operation, for which Prior Policy Actions were implemented fully (see Section 4 below).
The original total loan commitment was US$500 million, which was all disbursed. The loan was approved by the
Bank's Board on September 13, 2011 and became effective on December 15, 2011. There was no Borrower
contribution. The project closed on the original closing date of October 31, 2014.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

At appraisal, the relevance of objectives was high, both in terms of country priorities and Bank strategies:
  The Philippine Development Plan emphasized disaster risk reduction as a core country objective. Policy
     objectives were also prioritized in the Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management (DRRM) Act, its
     National Framework, and the associated implementation Plan. The DRRM Act (Republic Act 10121) and its
     Implementing Rules and Regulations emphasized the need for a coherent, comprehensive, integrated, and
     proactive approach to disaster risk management (DRM) across government levels and sectors, and among
     vulnerable communities. The National Framework developed a comprehensive, all-hazard, multi-sectoral,
     inter-agency and community-based approach.
  The objectives of this DPL with a CAT-DDO was highly relevant to the Bank Group’s FY10-FY12 Country
     Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Philippines, as well as the CAS update for FY13. The CAS that was in effect
     during project preparation and appraisal was anchored in the Philippines Development Plan for 2004-2010, which
     was centered on "Making Growth Work for the Poor." Specifically, the DPL directly served Strategic Objective 4
     of the CAS related to Reduced Vulnerabilities, which called for improving disaster risk management.

Currently, the relevance of objectives remains high:
  The PDP Midterm Update of April 2014 re-emphasized the role of DRM in safeguarding development gains,
    together with climate change adaptation (CCA). The PDP Update includes strategies to build the country’s
    resilience through DRM and CCA in key PDP sectors such as agriculture, environment and natural resources,
    infrastructure, and social development.
  The DPL's objectives continue to be highly relevant to the priorities of the current Country Partnership Strategy
    (CPS) for FY15-FY18. The CPS identifies "High exposure and vulnerability to current and growing disaster and
    climate change risks" as a key development constraint. In response, the CPS seeks as a strategic outcome to
    "increase physical and financial resilience to natural disaster and climate change impacts."

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial
  The DPL's Catastrophe Risk Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO) instrument was relevant at aimed to assist
    reduction of the Government's fiscal vulnerability in the event of a catastrophic adverse natural event. In line
    with the Bank's Catastrophic Risk Financing Framework, small-scale natural disasters are expected to be
    covered by the Government's own resources and reserve funds, while the CAT-DDO instrument would cover less
    frequent, more severe disasters. Signing of the DPL was contingent upon a sound macroeconomic policy
    framework at entry and the existence of a satisfactory disaster risk management program.
  The DPLs Action Areas, implementation arrangements, and causal chain are directly linked to the stated
    objective of increasing the Government's capacity to manage the impact of natural disasters, as explained below:
       Policy Areas: The DPL was designed to directly serve the three key policy areas that were prioritized in the
         Philippine DRRM Act of 2010 and the targets were aligned with the targets in the Bank's CAS for FY10-13
          related to reduction of vulnerabilities to disasters and improvement in disaster risk management.
         Priorities for Outcomes: The policy framework of this DPL prioritizes the same outcomes as the
          Government's own National DRRM Plan, which include: (i) increased DRRM and CCA capacities at all
          levels; (ii) comprehensive national and local preparedness policies, plans and systems developed and
          implemented; (iii) DRRM and CCA mainstreamed and integrated in national, sectoral, regional and local
          development policies, plans and budgets; (iv) increased disaster resilience of infrastructure systems; and (v)
          access to effective and applicable disaster risk financing and insurance.
         Targets: These were designed to supplement the DRRM Act and fill in any gaps in the Implementing Rules
          and Regulations. For example, one target was to issue updated guidelines on the use of Local DRRM Funds
          in order to provide the necessary guidance for implementing the Act's requirements at the local level. Also,
          the Act's Implementing Rules and Regulations have been further supplemented by various instructions from
          the National DRRM Council, such as protocols, memorandum circulars, and other issuances from the
          member agencies.
         Disbursement Trigger: Design was straightforward. The sole trigger for disbursement of the CAT-DDO was
          a Presidential Declaration of a State of Calamity, providing immediate liquidity in the aftermath of a disaster.
         Technical Assistance complement: The DPL was designed to be complemented by other World Bank
          support, notably, the Bank’s Programmatic Technical Assistance (Support to the Philippine Disaster Risk
          Reduction and Management Agenda).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

"To enhance the capacity of the Government of the Philippines to manage the impacts of natural disasters "

Two Prior Policy Actions were implemented:
  May 2010: Enactment of the Philippine Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act (Republic Act No. 10121),
    which would mainstream risk reduction into development policies and processes.
  June 2010: Adoption of the Strategic National Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction (Executive Order No. 888),
    which is a 10-year plan to achieve commitments made under the Hyogo Framework of Action

The DPL builds upon and contributes to the existing disaster risk reduction and management programs supported by
the Bank and other development partners, with a focus on institutional strengthening, mainstreaming into
development planning, and better management of fiscal exposure.

The DPL has achieved or exceeded the key outcome indicators, as formulated in the Program Document, and
described in further detail below.


First Policy Are a: Strengthen the institutional capacity for DRM efforts

Substantial

Overall Assessment:
The institutional capacities for DRM in the Philippines was strengthened through the introduction and strengthening of
policy frameworks, institutions, and national and local plans to manage the risks of natural disasters. Much progress
has been achieved in shifting the Government's emphasis from emergency response toward disaster preparedness,
risk reduction and financial protection. There has also been an increase in DRM knowledge and corresponding
practices across various sectors and government levels. The Government has invested substantial resources for
preparedness initiatives, particularly in terms of building the capacity of Local Government Units.

Outputs:
  Compared to the original target of 14 provinces, all 80 provinces of the Philippines have established fully
    functional disaster risk reduction and management (DRRM) offices, each with the budget allocations and at least
    four statutory DRRM positions.
  Over 1,487 cities and municipalities have established Local DRRM Offices, for which the implementing guidelines
    were set issued in April 2014 by the National DRRM Council, Department of the Interior and Local Government,
    the Department of Budget and Management, and the Civil Service Commission.
  The National DRRM Council developed a monitoring system to track disaster-related financing. To enhance its
    monitoring capacity, an online software platform called the Project Monitoring and Evaluation System for Disaster
    Risk Management was designed in 2011 and development was completed in September 2013. Training has been
    provided to the Office of Civil Defense to manage and operate the system on behalf of the National DRRM
    Council. However, the System has not become fully operational due to organizational capacity constraints in
    Office of Civil Defense. The Bank has recommended that parallel and overlapping systems be linked and
       inter-operable in order to share data under the umbrella of an overall DRRM information system.
      The Department of Interior and Local Government issued the Guidelines on the Use of the Local Disaster Risk
       Reduction and Management Fund to provide guidance on the eligibility of expenditures for Fund support. The
       Commission on Audit also issued a Circular on September 2012 to stipulate the reporting and accounting
       procedures for the Fund. A Joint Memorandum Circular was issued by the National DRRM Council, Department
       of Budget and Management, and Department of Interior and Local Government on March 2013 to clarify the
       allocation and utilization of the Quick Response Fund for ex-ante (70%) and ex-post (30%) measures.
      The National DRRM Council implemented training programs for government authorities to conduct post-disaster
       needs assessments and emergency preparedness drills. Fifteen sector-specific Guidance Notes were developed
       and have been locally adopted to become the framework for the Philippine post-disaster needs assessment
       methodology. These were used in the formal training program for Office of Civil Defense staff.

Outcomes:
  As implementing agency for the CAT-DDO, the Department of Finance mobilized and coordinated the in-depth
    involvement of oversight and line agencies in DRM-related policy actions.
  The Department of Interior and Local Government is monitoring progress in the functionality of the Local DRRM
    Offices through the annual Seal of Good Local Governance. Through the Grassroots Participatory Budgeting
    Program, a block grant will be provided to Local Government Units to support construction of evacuation centers,
    disaster preparedness audits, and guidelines on the preparation of Local Climate Change Action Plans.
  The Department of Budget and Management has increasingly provided leadership for DRRM expenditure
    tracking. As an oversight agency, the Department has the authority to coordinate fiscal spending.
  The Department of Interior and Local Government and Commission on Audit guidelines enabled the Local
    Government Units to produce budgets for their DRRM plans, and account for these budgets in accordance with
    government rules and regulations.
  The Post Disaster Needs Assessments served as the real-life application of the training provided by National
    DRRM Council. Capacity building is continuing as part of the Office of Civil Defense’s regular training and
    emergency preparedness drill program.
  Multi-sectoral disaster preparedness drills and training are conducted periodically by the member agencies of the
    National DRRM Council as part of the National DRRM Plan’s long-term goal on disaster preparedness. Key
    training activities under the Plan include simulation of scenario-based preparedness and response plans, and
    incident command and communication systems.
  Through the established DRRM offices, Local Government Units are integrating disaster risk considerations into
    local plans using guidelines recently issued by the Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board on risk-informed
    land use planning.
  There has been significant improvement in Local Government Units’ ability to prepare for disasters through the
    use of: (i) forecasts provided by the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services
    Administration; (ii) better hazard maps, particularly for Local Government Units located along major river basins;
    and (iii) pre-disaster risk assessments implemented by Office of Civil Defense by deploying teams to advise
    Local Government Units on preparedness actions.


Second Policy Area: Mainstream disaster risk reduction into development planning

High

Overall Assessment:

The ICR's evidence (pages 21-22) adequately supports the conclusion that "resilience to natural disasters has been
mainstreamed into planning for key sectors." In the health and transport sectors, vulnerability assessments and
structural audits of hospitals and infrastructure have been conducted in order to prioritize investments to reduce risks,
such as retrofitting and structural upgrading. (The Bank has also provided technical assistance to complete a similar
prioritization study for public schools in Metro Manila.)

Social protection and community development programs also continue to be improved in order to better address
disaster risks. For example, the implementation network for Conditional Cash Transfers, together with municipal
leaders, have assisted in identifying families that could be enrolled for various disaster recovery programs, such as
cash-for-work and cash-for-asset rebuilding. Investment planning at the provincial level is also increasingly
mainstreaming resilience to disasters, as shown by the integration of climate change adaptation and disaster risk
reduction measures into 72 Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans, which has resulted in spatial and
investment planning that is fully informed by exposure and vulnerability to disasters. As the ICR indicates (page 22):
"The Philippines’ use of social protection systems as a platform to deliver assistance after a disaster demonstrates the
depth of integration of DRM in the Government’s regular programs."
Outputs:

    Structural and functional assessments in the health and transport sectors to identify disaster risks and DRM
     investment needs -- conducted by the Department of Health and the Department of Public Works and Highways.
    Disaster Response Operations Manual and related training programs for municipalities and communities --
     provided by the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD)
    Post-disaster windows for releasing funds when triggered by a calamity -- established by DSWD
    An M&E tool in the form of a results matrix for mainstreaming disaster risk reduction and climate change
     adaptation to guide investment decisions at the provincial level -- issued by the National Economic Development
     Authority.

Outcomes:

(a) Sectoral Mainstreaming at the Government Level

The health, transport and social development sectors have been the focus of DRM mainstreaming, under the
responsibility of their respective Government agencies. The outcomes are as follows:

    Health Sector: Exceeding by almost double the original target of 100 health facilities, the Department of Health
     has conducted functional and structural assessments of 199 public and private hospitals in the Luzon region.
     Based on agreed indicators, the structural, non-structural, and functional capacities of those hospitals were
     assessed in order to identify gaps and thus inform investment decisions. Similar assessments are planned for the
     Visayas and Mindanao regions. The Department has also expanded the coverage of its Safe Hospitals Program
     following World Health Organization guidelines.
    Transport Sector: The Department of Public Works and Highways has met the Policy Matrix target of retrofitting
     or reconstructing 10 bridges in Metro Manila. In 2011, the Department carried out a structural vulnerability
     assessment of all bridges along national roads in Metro Manila. This led to the identification of 56 bridges in need
     of retrofitting, major repair and/or reconstruction, of which 18 have been funded, and 10 have been completed.
     This exercise was conducted throughout the Philippines in 2013, when the Department completed the
     assessment of the structural condition of all bridges along all national roads to feed into investment prioritization
     and budgeting.
    Social Development: The Policy Matrix target of 1,000 communities to receive DRRM training was highly
     exceeded, i.e., over 24,000 communities were trained with the DRRM module under the DSWD Family
     Development Sessions program of the Department of Social Welfare and Development. The Department has
     prepared a new Disaster Response Operations Manual to provide more comprehensive DRRM training to
     communities. This new manual was used between October and December 2014 to provide DRRM training to an
     initial 14,000 communities in over 550 municipalities. The Department has also established community-based
     post-disaster response windows to activate emergency procedures and expedite sub-project approval in the
     event of a calamity, thus enabling funds to be used for relief and recovery operations. The roll-out of post-disaster
     windows to the Department's 16 regional field offices started in July 2014.

(b) Mainstreaming at the Provincial Level

    The Policy Matrix target of mainstreaming DRRM to 30 provinces was highly exceeded, as 72 of a total of 80
     provinces have mainstreamed climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction measures into their
     Provincial Development and Physical Framework Plans. Of those 72 provinces, 69 have already had their plans
     approved by their respective Governors and Provincial Planning and Development Councils.
    Reforms at the provincial level have resulted from the intensive risk assessment, prioritization, and budgeting
     exercise conducted by the National Economic Development Authority. These provincial reforms include reviews
     of land use plans and establishment of new zoning regulations.


Third Policy Area: Better manage the Government 's fiscal exposure to natural hazard impacts .

Substantial

Overall Assessment:

The Government is expanding its options for risk financing in order to reduce its fiscal exposure to natural disasters.
In addition to post-disaster relief and rehabilitation, the DRRM Act also allows for the DRRM Fund to be used for ex
ante disaster risk reduction measures, which include preparedness and mitigation programs, training and
procurement of equipment, construction of evacuation centers and other facilities, and payments for insurance
policies. The Government more than doubled the DRRM Fund allocation from about PhP2.7 billion in 2006 to PhP7.5
billion in 2013. Moreover, the Government has launched the implementation of the Disaster Risk Financing and
Insurance Strategy, which it developed within this DPL's CAT-DDO policy framework, through an Action Plan to
establish risk financing mechanisms.

Outputs:

    The Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Strategy and its Action Plan were prepared by the Department of
     Finance (DOF). Its priorities for post-disaster emergency response, recovery and reconstruction are to: (i)
     improve financing at the national level; (ii) provide local governments with funds; and (iii) empower poor and
     vulnerable households and small and medium enterprises to quickly restore their livelihoods.
    The Catastrophe Risk Assessment for the Philippines was supported through the World Bank’s Programmatic
     DRM Analytical and Advisory Assistance. This assessment underpinned the strategy mentioned above. It is a
     probabilistic model of the Philippines' natural catastrophe risks, and provides an overview of potential losses to
     public and private assets, as well as corresponding contingent liability and social impacts. The model enables the
     Government to weigh the costs and benefits of various risk financing instruments and their optimal combination.
     Thus, it serves as the technical basis for designing sovereign risk financing instruments.

Outcomes:

    The DOF led initiatives in the new policy area of financial protection against the impacts of disasters. This has
     now become an integral part of the Government’s overall fiscal risk management strategy.
    Fiscal savings are expected from the shift of the DRRM Act (which was one of the two Prior Policy Actions)
     toward including ex-ante actions and funding for risk reduction, preparedness and prevention, instead of
     over-focusing on ex-post emergency response, relief and recovery after a disaster has occurred.
    The Government has expanded the use of financial instruments to build financial resilience at the sovereign level,
     as a major step toward managing the Government’s fiscal exposure to natural hazard impacts. In 2014 the
     Government signed a US$500 million contingent line of credit with the Japan International Cooperation Agency
     (JICA), US$150 million of which it drew down to support Typhoon Yolanda recovery efforts. This instrument was
     modeled by JICA on this DPL with a Catastrophe Risk Deferred Drawdown Option, illustrating the continuing
     relevance of such instruments to the Government, as part of its broader disaster risk financing strategy (ICR,
     page 9)


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

For the Philippines, which is repeatedly ravaged by serious natural disasters, the relevance of the project's objective is
high, both in terms of Bank and country priorities. The relevance of project design is substantial; the DPL's policy
areas, required actions, and implementation arrangements are causally and directly linked to the stated objective of
increasing the Government's capacity to manage the impact of natural disasters. Achievement of the first policy area
of strengthen the institutional capacity for DRM efforts is substantial; achievement of the second policy area to
mainstream disaster risk reduction into development planning is high; and achievement of the third policy area to
better manage the Government's fiscal exposure to natural hazard impacts is substantial.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

In terms of sustainability, the Bank is continuing to support the Government's fiscal management of recurrent natural
disasters. According to the ICR (page 23), the Bank's new Programmatic DRM Analytical and Advisory Assistance
(2014-2016) "will support the continued use of catastrophe risk modeling as the analytical basis for disaster risk
financing and insurance applications and policies, in accordance with the Government’s Disaster Risk Financing and
Insurance Strategy. This will be complemented by continuing technical assistance, in the areas of: (i) improving the
financing of post-disaster emergency response, recovery, and reconstruction needs through market based risk
transfer and a fiscal risk profile for the national government; (ii) providing local governments with funds for recovery
and reconstruction after a disaster through the design of parametric insurance for emergency losses and
indemnity-based insurance for public assets; and (iii) risk analysis tools to enable evidence-based decision making
and to support the design and placement of catastrophe risk insurance products."
The Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Strategy, when fully implemented, may be expected to reduce the
Government’s fiscal exposure to natural disasters. The Government has provided funding to support the DPL's policy
action areas. The DPL's policy framework was aligned with the regular programs of national and local government
agencies, thus helping ensure their ownership. The National DRRM Council and Department of Finance proved
effective in leading the coordination of policy actions, and the Bank provided parallel technical assistance to continue
strengthening institutional capacity for DRM at both the national and local levels. The involvement of the Department
of Budget and Management also improves the sustainability of progress related to monitoring disaster-related
financing. DRM continues to be a cross-cutting area within the Philippine Development Plan, as reinforced in its April
2014 Midterm Update.

The risk of losing Government commitment and support to DRM is low. This is evident from the Government's efforts
to decentralize DRM to Local Government Units in order to enhance the sustainability of project's outcomes. The
Government continues to make sustained efforts to decrease losses from disasters over time. This DPL with a
CAT-DDO also supported the institutionalization of the Government’s capacity to manage the impacts of natural
disasters, thus further enhancing sustainability. However, climate change could further increase the frequency and
severity of natural disasters in the Philippines, which may strain the Government’s capacity to manage their physical,
fiscal and social impacts.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

As key inputs to project preparation and appraisal, the Bank had already carried out analytical work to determine
DRRM priorities at the national and local levels. In 2004, Economic and Sector Work (i.e., "Natural Disaster Risk
Management in the Philippines: Enhancing Poverty Alleviation Through Disaster Reduction") was completed to
assess the gaps in the Government's capacity to mitigate disaster risks. Since 2008, the Bank-managed Global
Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery has supported a technical assistance program to: (i) identify the most
vulnerable provinces in the country; (ii) assess weaknesses in the financing mechanisms for disaster recovery;
and (iii) propose systems and tools to improve the capacity of Local Government Units for DRM. The ICR also
indicated that lessons learned from other similar operations were taken into account.

In addition to analytical inputs, quality at entry was further strengthened by the close consultative collaboration
between the Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance team and the World Bank's Treasury Department to ensure
that the project incorporated international good practice in disaster risk management and disaster risk financing.
This work served as the basis for developing comprehensive policy targets that address the five pillars of effective
DRM, namely: (i) risk identification; (ii) risk reduction; (iii) preparedness; (iv) financial protection; and (v) planning
for disaster recovery.

There is adequate evidence that, at entry, the Bank worked in partnership to ensure commitment to, and
ownership of, the DPL's policy actions within the Government and among the numerous stakeholders as well. This
was achieved by aligning the DPL's Policy Matrix with the Government's DRRM Act, the ensuing National DRRM
Framework, and detailed Action Plan. There was also early attention given to accountability for the outcomes
through the institutional set-up of the National DRRM Council.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Satisfactory


 b. Quality of supervision:


The Bank supervised the project at least semi-annually, including the linked DRM Technical Assistance activities
supported by Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery. The Bank team maintained a close policy
dialogue with the Government and relevant stakeholders. During implementation supervision, the Bank carried out
substantive reviews and assessments of progress in implementing the policy framework, to help identify and
address bottlenecks to achieving of the project's development outcomes. In the aftermath of Typhoon Yolanda
(November 2013 - one year before the closing date) the Bank strengthened the dialogue and technical assistance
to integrate the Project Monitoring and Evaluation System for DRM within the broader public financial
management system. This was a significant development during project supervision that was supported by the
close collaboration among the Bank project staff, the Bank's Treasury Department, and the DRFI team -- a
process which also monitored multi-sectoral policy actions and targets for developing financial protection
strategies against disasters. Implementation Status and Results reports were filed regularly to document progress,
even after the loan proceeds were fully disbursed.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:


The Government was strongly committed to the DPL's far-reaching DRM agenda, as well as the consultative
process surrounding the development of the action areas. The Government's dialogue with the Bank was
well-targeted and sustained. For example, the Department of Finance appointed senior officials to coordinate
policy actions under the DPL's framework, particularly the Disaster Risk Financing and Insurance Strategy, whose
implementation is still continuing beyond loan closing date; it also established a Technical Working Group that
included the stakeholder agencies directly involved in the CAT-DDO framework, as well as other associated
oversight and line agencies. The Technical Working Group served as a platform for coordinating and monitoring
the implementation of Policy Actions. The Government met all the agreed targets under the policy framework.
The development outcomes achieved under each of the policy areas were in accordance with the National DRRM
Plan. A minor shortcoming is that the Office of Civil Defense had changes in its administration during project
implementation, including reductions in technical staff. While this increased the challenges in delivering some
policy actions, all targets were still substantially met.



   Government Performance Rating :                              Satisfactory


 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There is no Implementing Agency as all the policy actions and inputs were by the government.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Not Applicable

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

While the Bank's main counterpart was the Department of Finance, the monitoring and evaluation of the program is
shared with the National DRRM Council, which includes several key government agencies. M&E design clearly
benefitted from a strong linkage with the overall strategic framework for DRM in the Philippines. The indicators that
were selected for monitoring the progress of this DPL correctly reflected the above defined areas of action. The
outcome indicators in the policy framework were closely aligned with government priorities. The mix of qualitative and
quantified targets was appropriate.

b. M&E Implementation:

Monitoring and reporting was conducted through the regular systems of the relevant agencies, since the policy targets
were integrated with the regular programs of several Government agencies. A programmatic technical assistance
(TA) was specifically designed to support action areas of this DPL and was used for the progress reporting on this
DPL to avoid duplication.

c. M&E Utilization:

The utilization of findings from the monitoring work was most evident in the case of the Government’s Disaster Risk
Financing and Insurance strategy, which was a key target in the DPL's Policy Matrix. The findings from project
monitoring helped formulate the necessary actions to maintain or accelerate progress toward the achievement of
agreed targets. Those results from monitoring the project also informed the next phase of the Bank’s engagement in
disaster risk management and the Government's financing strategy.

  M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The ICR does not report on safeguards aspects.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

The ICR does not report on fiduciary compliance aspects.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons were summarized from the longer discussions provided in the ICR:

(1) For DRM policy frameworks with multiple action areas across different sectors and a wide range of
stakeholders, there needs to be a strong consultation process with various line agencies, civil society, the private
sector, and academia, The consultative process via a Working Group can provide a vehicle for mainstreaming
DRM in sectoral development.

(2) Development Policy Operations with CAT-DDOs can help introduce broader concepts for Disaster Risk
Financing and Insurance. As contingent credit, the CAT-DDO could be an affordable source of financing and
complements existing market-based disaster risk financing instruments, such as insurance, catastrophe bonds,
reserve funds, etc. These instruments can be combined to retain the risk from smaller, more frequent events, or to
transfer the risk from less frequent, higher-impact events, based on an assessment of risks, desired coverage,
available budget, and cost efficiency. These assessments can be supported through technical assistance, and
implemented as part of a country’s overall DRFI strategy.

(3) The ‘soft trigger’ for disbursement, which is a standard feature of the CAT-DDO instrument, needs to be
supported by strong analytics in order to optimize the timing of drawdowns.

(4) DPLs with a CAT-DDO can provide the opportunity to elevate DRM issues to oversight agencies (in particular,
Finance, Budget, and Economic Planning) that may not otherwise be deeply engaged in the policy dialogue.

(5) The implementation of a programmatic technical assistance to support the policy areas of the CAT-DDO can
facilitate substantive policy dialogue, enhance implementation effectiveness, and sustain policy actions even after
full disbursement of the loan. It is important for the Bank to provide adequate resources for implementation and
technical assistance to sustain the policy dialogue with a broad set of DRM stakeholders.

(6) Complementarity between ongoing World Bank investment projects and the DPL with a CAT-DDO can generate
mutual leverage for achieving development objectives. This was particularly well illustrated by the policy actions
related to addressing disaster risks in Community Driven Development and Conditional Cash Transfer operations,
whereby the CAT-DDO provided the policy framework to pursue reforms which were implemented through the
investment projects.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is of good quality. Its evidence base is strong and the discussion of outcomes is well-grounded on the
project's results chain. The ICR is candid, albeit too long at 29 pages partly because of repetitive as well as generally
descriptive material. It complies with the OPCS guidelines for the preparation of ICRs. One minor shortcoming is the
relatively thin discussion of baseline conditions. However, this does not raise any significant attribution issues, since it
is quite clear that the achievements of the project stemmed from the enabling prior actions, notably the DRRM Act of
2010, the ensuing policy actions, and its implementing regulations and guidelines, as well as the 10-year Strategic
Action Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction also issued in 2010 (the DPL was approved in 2011).

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
