                                            CONFORMED COPY



                                          LOAN NUMBER 8085-PH




       Loan Agreement


    Disaster Risk Management Development Policy Loan
with a Catastrophe Deferred Drawdown Option (CAT-DDO)


                       between



          REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES




                         and


  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
             AND DEVELOPMENT




               Dated September 23, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated September 23, 2011, entered into between the REPUBLIC
OF THE PHILIPPINES (“the Borrower?) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“the Bank?) for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore
hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred million dollars
        ($500,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan?).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one half of one
        percent (0.50%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   If, at the Borrower’s request and on such terms and conditions as the Bank may
        agree, the Closing Date is extended, the fee payable by the Borrower for each
        extension of the Closing Date shall be at the rate of one quarter of one percent
        (0.25%) of the amount of the Loan available for withdrawal upon such extension.
        If the Borrower elects to capitalize the fee from the Loan, the Bank shall, on
        behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself such
        amounts required to pay such fee. If the Borrower elects to pay the fee from its
        own resources, the Borrower shall pay such fee not later than sixty (60) days
        after the date of the notice given by the Bank to the Borrower confirming the
        extension of the Closing Date.
                                           -2-


2.05.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by
        the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.06.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.07.   (a)     Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
                principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
                provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

        (b)     The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request
                repayment provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this
                Agreement for such Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity
                of such Withdrawal does not exceed eighteen (18) years from the
                Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such Withdrawal does not
                exceed thirty (30) years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other average
                maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans
                made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and
                (ii) such repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower
                and the Bank prior to the Withdrawal Date of such Withdrawal.

2.08.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.


        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                                          -3-


                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

        (c)     Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
                Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
                premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
                itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
                with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
                allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.09.   At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may, by notice to the Bank,
        refund any amount of the Withdrawn Balance for the purpose of re-crediting such
        amount to the Loan Account for further withdrawals. Upon such refund, the
        repayment schedule shall be adjusted on a pro rata basis, on terms and conditions
        acceptable to the Bank.

2.10.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
                that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
                Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
                                          -4-


                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
        the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
        the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Secretary of the Department of Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

                Department of Finance
                Department of Finance Building
                Bangko Sentral Complex
                Roxas Blvd.
                Manila, Philippines

                Cable address: Facsimile:

                SECFIN           (63-2) 526-9990
                Manila           (63-2) 523-9216

6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America
                                        -5-


              Cable address:          Telex:                 Facsimile:

              INTBAFRAD               248423(MCI) or         1-202-477-6391
              Washington, D.C.         64145(MCI)

         AGREED at Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.




                               REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                               By /s/ Cesar V. Purisima
                                                      Authorized Representative



                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                               By /s/ Bert Hofman
                                                     Authorized Representative
                                           -6-



                                      SCHEDULE 1

                     Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.        Actions taken under the Program

        The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program to enhance its capacity to
implement a disaster risk management program for adverse natural events include the
following:

1.        The Borrower has enacted the Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act
          (Republic Act No. 10121) of May 2010 which seeks to mainstream disaster risk
          reduction into development policies and processes; and which has expanded the
          focus of disaster management from ex-post actions and funding for emergency
          response, relief and recovery to include ex-ante actions and funding for risk
          reduction, preparedness and prevention.

2.        The Borrower has adopted the Strategic National Action Plan for Disaster Risk
          Reduction (Executive Order No. 888) of June 2010, a ten-year plan to achieve
          the commitments made under the Hyogo Framework of Action.

Section II.       Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.        General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
          with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
          may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.        Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
          Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
          Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The Borrower shall be
          entitled to withdraw the Single Tranche from the Loan Account in support of the
          Program in various Withdrawals. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
          this end is set out in the table below:

               Allocations                       Amount of the Loan Allocated
                                                    (expressed in Dollars)
     (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                      497,500,000
     (2) Front-end Fee                                    2,500,000
                                                 -7-


     (3) Fee payable pursuant to                                           01
     Section 2.04 of this Agreement
     (4) Amount due pursuant to                                             0
     Section 2.08(c) of this Agreement
     for Interest Rate Cap or Interest
     Rate Collar premium
     TOTAL AMOUNT                                              500,000,000

C.         Payment of Fee Pursuant to Section 2.04 of Agreement. If the Closing Date is
           extended pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement and the Borrower elects to
           finance from its own resources the fee set forth in said Section, no withdrawal
           shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full
           of such fee.

D.         Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

           1.       No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless a
           State of Calamity exists in the Borrower’s territory as a result of a natural disaster
           which has been declared by the Borrower’s President through a Proclamation of
           Calamity duly published in the Official Gazette in accordance with the
           Borrower’s legislation.

           2.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, at any time prior to the receipt by the
           Bank of a request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines
           that a situation has arisen that has or would have the effect of materially
           reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program,
           the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect. Upon the giving of such
           notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance unless
           and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange
           of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of said Section 3.01, with the
           measures taken by the Borrower to rectify such situation.

E.         Deposits of Loan Amounts

           1.       The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the request for
           withdrawal from the Loan Account, and shall thereafter maintain a deposit
           account in Dollars in Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas on terms and conditions
           satisfactory to the Bank (“Deposit Account?).

           2.       All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
           into the Deposit Account.




1
    The amount allocated to this category will be zero until the borrower decides to renew the DPL.
                                        -8-


     3.     Upon the deposit of the amount of the Loan into the Deposit Account,
     the Borrower shall ensure that an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
     Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.

F.   Audit

     Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:

     1.      have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to
     the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable
     to the Bank;

     2.      furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
     (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of
     the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
     reasonably request and make such report publicly available in a timely fashion
     and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and

     3.     furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit
     Account and its audit as the Bank shall reasonably request.

G.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
     at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
     Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
     refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
     refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

H.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is October 31, 2014.
                                       -9-


                                  SCHEDULE 2

                             Amortization Schedule

1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
     repay each Disbursed Amount in semiannual installments payable on each April
     15 and October 15, the first installment to be payable on the 20th Interest
     Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount and
     the last installment to be payable on the 50th Interest Payment Date following the
     Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for the
     last one shall be equal to one-thirty one (1/31) of the Disbursed Amount. The
     last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of the
     Disbursed Amount.

2.   The Bank shall notify the Loan Parties of the amortization schedule for each
     Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for the Disbursed
     Amount.

3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 through 2 of this Schedule, in the
     event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to
     an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that
     is repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

4.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency.
                                        - 10 -



                                    APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     “Deposit Account? has the meaning given to such expression in paragraph 1 of
       Part E of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.     “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:

                         Group           Sub-group            Description of Item
                         112                                  Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                  Tobacco, un-
                                                              manufactured, tobacco
                                                              refuse
                         122                                  Tobacco, manufactured
                                                              (whether or not containing
                                                              tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                  Radioactive and associated
                                                              materials
                         667                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                              semiprecious stones,
                                                              unworked or worked
                         718             718.7                Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                              thereof; fuel elements
                                                              (cartridges), non-
                                                              irradiated, for nuclear
                                                              reactors
                         728             728.43               Tobacco processing
                                                              machinery
                                       - 11 -


                      897               897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                             platinum group metals
                                                             (except watches and watch
                                                             cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                             silversmiths’ wares
                                                             (including set gems)
                      971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                             (excluding gold ores and
                                                             concentrates)

     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
             agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
             (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
             satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
3.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010, with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.   “Hyogo Framework for Action? means the international plan of action endorsed
     by the Borrower at the world conference for disaster reduction held in Hyogo,
     Japan in 2005, which provides a framework by which disaster reduction policy is
     approached globally, and includes guidelines for comprehensive disaster risk
     management actions.

5.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     enhance the Borrower's capacity to implement a disaster risk management
     program for adverse natural events and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
     July 1, 2011from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s
     commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
     Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
                                         - 12 -


6.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
       category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
       Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

7.     “State of Calamity? means a situation resulting from a natural disaster caused
       by one of more of the events specified in NDCC Memo Order Number 04, Series
       of 1998 dated March 4, 1998, entitled “Amended Policies, Procedures and
       Criteria for the Declaration of a State of Calamity?.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

       The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:

               “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

               …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
               under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
               shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
       above) is modified to read as follows:
                                          - 13 -


                Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                …        (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a
                report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
                Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
                Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.       The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical
order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

        (a)     The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
                follows:

                 “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
                support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
                pursuant to the Loan Agreement.?

        (b)     The term “Financial Statements? and its definition are deleted in their
                entirety.

        (c)     The term “Fixed Spread? is modified to read as follows:

                “Fixed Spread? means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for
        the Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C.
        time, on the Withdrawal Date, and expressed as a percentage per annum;
        provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the Default Interest Rate, pursuant
        to Section 3.02(e), that is applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan
        Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread? means
        the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one
        calendar day prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, for the Currency of
        denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes of a Conversion of the Variable
        Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on the Fixed Spread,
        and for purposes of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed
        Spread? means the Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency i n effect at 12:01
        a.m. Washington, D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency
        Conversion of all or any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, the Fixed
        Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in the
        Conversion Guidelines.

        (d)     The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
                modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout
                these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):
                                   - 14 -


        “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
        support of which the Loan is made.?

(e)     The term “Variable Spread? is modified to read as follows:

        “Variable Spread? means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period:
(1) the Bank’s standard lending spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m.
Washington, D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the
weighted average margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) the Reference
Rate, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or
portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on
the Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one
Currency, “Variable Spread? applies separately to each of such Currencies.

(f)     A new term “Withdrawal? is added to read as follows:

      “Withdrawal? means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01.

(g)     A new term “Withdrawal Date? is added to read as follows:

       “Withdrawal Date? means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the
Bank pays the Withdrawal.
