FILE COPY
Report No. 683-GU
Appraisal of the
Second Telecommunications Project
Guatemala
March 26, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



C UIRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      = Quetzal
US$1.00            =    Q1.00
MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km) = 0.621 statute,mile
FISCAL YEAR
Calendar Year
ABBVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND DEFIITIONS
Carrier      -  A system of providing several channels through one
trannmission mode.
Channel      -  Frequency band of a carrier system carrying telephone,
telegraph or data signals.
CABEI        -  Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM         -  Central American Common Market
COMTELCA     -  Central American Telecommunications Commission
CONAPLAN     -  National Planning Council
DEL          -  Direct ebcchange line
DGT          -  Direcci6n General de Telecomunicaciones
DGCT         -  Direcci6n General de Correos y Telegrafos
GUATEL       - Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones
GUATEL INT  -  Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones Internacionales
HF           -  High frequency (3 - 30 MHz)
INCATEL      -  Instituto Centroamericano de Telecomunicaciones
INTECAP      -  Instituto Tecnico de Capacitaci6n y Productividad
ITU          -  International Telecommunications Union
KHz          - Kilohertz
MHz          - Megahertz
STD          -  Subscribers trunk dialing
TELEX        -  Teleprinter exchange service
UHF          -  Ultra high frequency (300 - 3000 MHz)
USA          - United States of America
VHF          - Very high frequency (30 - 300 MHz)



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                      i - ii
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                   1
2.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR                                  2
Sector Organization                                            2
Regulation and Tariffs                                         2
Fxisting Facilities                                            3
Quality of Service                                             3
Sector Objectives                                              4
3.  THE BORROWJER                                                   5
Organization, Management and Staff                             5
Training                                                       6
Audit                                                          6
4. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT                                      7
The Program                                                    7
The Project                                                    7
Cost Estimate                                                  7
Project Financing                                              8
Procurement                                                    9
Disbursement                                                  10
Project Execution                                             10
5.  JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                                  11
Project Objectives                                            11
Market Demand                                                 11
Least-Cost Solution                                           12
Return on Project Investment                                  12
6.  FINANCE                                                       13
Introduction                                                  13
Earnings Record and Financial Position                        13
Government Receivables                                        13
External Auditors                                             i4
Tariffs                                                       14
Investment and Financing Plans                                15
Future Earnings and Financial Position                        17
Performance Indicators                                        18
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          19
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Nikola R. Holcer and
Jaime Acevedo-Navas.






LIST OF ANNEXES
1 *  International Statistical Data
2.   Summary of Internal and External Telecomnunications Tariffs
3.   Telecommunications Facilities in  Guatemala
4.  Existing Facilities - Ongoing Works - Project Service Targets
5.   Important Features of the Law Establishing GUATEL
6.   Organization Chart
7.   Second Development Plan
8.   Estimated Cost of Project
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Telecommunications Demand in Guatemala
11.   Return on Project Investment
12.   Actual and Forecast Income and Surplus Statements, 1972-1979
13.   Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1972-1979
1h.   Selected Financial Indicators, 1973-1979
15.   Forecast  Sources and Applications of Funds, 1974-1979
16.   Summary of, and Notes on, Forecast Assumptions
17.   Selected Performance Indicators
Map - IBRD-11224






APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELECa1MIICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Second Telecommunications Project of the
Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL), which has requested 3ank
assistance in its financing.
ii.       In 1972, the Bank approved a loan to GUATEL of US$16.0 million equiv-
alent (Loan 792-GU) to assibt in the financing of its First Telecommunications
Project. Despite initial delays of about 18 months arising from procurement
difficulties, the project is progressing satisfactorily.  Minor cost overruns
will be covered by internally generated funds.
iii.      GUATEL - a governnent-owned autonomous entity - was established in
1971 by the merger of two former telecommunications entities; this eliminated
undesirable divisions of responsibility and resulted in better use of available
resouces and facilities. GUATEL is responsible for the international and most
of the domestic telecommunications services; the only exception is the domestic
telegraph service, which continues to be operated by the government department
in charge of the postal service.
iv.       Overall policy control of the telecommunications sector is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Communications and Public Works, and coor-
dination of sector investment under the national economic plan rests with the
National Planning Council (CONAPLAN).
v.        Guatemala has a very low telephone density of 0.77 telephones per 100
inhabitants. The local and long-distance facilities are poor in quality and do not
meet the country's expanding requirements. Major improvements will result from the
execution of the First Telecommunications Project which is scheduled to be completed
in 1976. GUATEL's development program is designed to improve quality by expanding
facilities to relieve congestion, extend service to new areas and within the
resources available meet unsatisfied demand in existing areas.
vi.       The project consists of expanding the telephone network capacity by
82,900 exchange lines aisd the long-distance capacity by 722 trunk channels and
corresponding trunk switching equipment; extending the rural telephone service
to 86 additional communities; expanding the telex exchange network by 250 lines;
and expanding telecommunications training facilities. The project is expected
to be completed by the end of 1978.
vii.      The project is estimated to cost US$45.9 million, with a US$32.9 million
foreign component. The proposed Bank loan of US$26.0 million equivalent would
finance 79% of the foreign cost. Loans from the Central American Bank for
Economic Integration (CABEI) totalling US$h.96 million would cover an additional
15% of the foreign cost. GUATEL would finance the remaining foreign cost of
US$1.9 million and the local currency expenditures from its own cash generation
viii.     GUATEL has the basic planning, engineering and supervisory capacity
to carry out the project. Its senior management is qualified and aedicated.
GUATEL's staff will carry out cable laying, jointing and commissioning of dist-i-



- ii -
bution cableis and transfers of existing switching equipment. Construction of
larger insta:Llations will be carried out mainly by contractors under GUATEL's
supervision. Expert assistance will be utilized in the design of the Guatema-
la City multiexchange network and in the planning and operation of a training
center.
ix.       Procurement of items financed by the proposed Bank loan would follow
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines,
except forextensions to existing installations where direct compatibility is
essential; the equipment involved, estimated to cost about US$2.0 million, would
be purchased directly from suppliers with whom the original contracts were placed
as a result of international competitive bidding under the previous Bank loan.
Manufacturers from the Central American Common Market (CACM) countries, would be
allowed a regional margin of preference of 15% of the t.i.f. price or 50% of the
customs duty, whichever is lower.  Because of long lead times involved in the
manufacture of urgently needed equipment, GUATEL  may enter into  commit-
ments to purchase goods with a value of about US$3.0 million before loan signing.
No retroactive financing under the Bank loan is proposed.
X.        The project is technically sound.  Its estimated cost a.ud the proposed
construction schedule are reasonable. The return on project investment is estimated
to be 18% at least. The facilities to be provided are needed to improve the
quality of existing service and to reduce GUATEL's large unsatisfied demand for
telephone service; together with the facilities provided under the ongoing project,
they will reciuce the waiting list from about 60,000 in 1973 to an estimated 32,000
au the end of 1978.  Continued Bank involvement would assist in the process of
institution-building in the relatively new entity, and could be expected to result in
price advantage benefits from international competitive bidding.
xi.       GUATEL is an acceptable borrower.  Its Board and management are vested
with sufficient authority to operate the entity efficiently, including the setting
of tariff levels. It is reasonably well managed. Because of recent tariff action
resulting in increased overall revanues and the agreements reached regarding net
earnings and their distribution, including the maintenance of a reserve covering
the service of its debt, GUATEL's prospective financial performance is good.
Its return on average net assets in service is not expected to fall below 13%
during the project period. This will permit it to cover 35% of its total
expansion program from its own cash generation.
xii.      The project forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan.



AP°RAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECONMIUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTnCA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report appraises the Second Telecommunications Project in
Guatemala, for which Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL) has
sought Bank assistance.
1.02      The project, which is essentially the first half (1975-1978) of
GUATEL's 1975-1981 Second Development Plan, is estimated to cost US$45.9
million, including a foreign exchange component of US$32.9 million. It will:
(a) expand the national telephone network capacity by 82,900 lines and connect
60,000 exchange lines, 722 long-distance circuits and trunk switching equipment;
(b) substantially improve rural teleDhone service and extend this service to
areas presently without it; (c) extend the telex network; and (d) expand
GUATEL's training capability.
1.03      The proposed Bank loan o.f USQ26.0 million would cover about 79jo of the
proljct s Toreign cos- and would be made to GTUATLL, a govermnent-owned autonomous
entity.  USL4.96 million or 135 of the foreign cos-t would be financed by the Cen-
tral American Bank for Econonic Integration (CADEI).  'The remaining foreign cost
of US1 .9 million and the local currency expenditures would be covered by G-UAT2Lts
cash generation.
1.04      GUATEL was created in 1971 by merging two former entities responsible
for national and international communications. In preparing the sector re-
organization, the Government was in consultation with the Bank, and Bank loan
792-GU in the amount of US$16.0 million equivalent, signed in 1972, assisted
the First Development Plan for the combined entity in Guatemala. The proposed
loan will constitute a continuation of Bank involvement in the development of
the sector through a project aimed at further expansion and consolidation of
the telecommunications facilities in Guatemala. The continued Bank involve-
ment will assist in the continuing process of institution-building in the
relatively new entity and afford it the benefit of price advantages resulting
from international competitive bidding under the Bank guidelines. This should
contribute substantially to GUATEL achieving the proposed accelerated expansion
in an efficient manner.
1.05      Due to GUATEL's lack of experience in dealing with international
competitive bidding there were delays in preparation of specifications and
finalization of bid awards which is likely to result in an estimated 18-months
delay in completion of the project financed under the first Bank loan. After
resolving the procurement difficulties, the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
1.06      This report is based on a telecommunications feasibility study
provided by GUATEL, and on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Nikola R. Holcer and Jaime Acevedo-Navas, who visited Guatemala in
June 1974.



-2-
2.  THI TELECO0I'4UNICATIONS SECTOR
Sector Organization
2.01      Prior to April 1971, the responsibility for providing telecommu-
nications Services was essentially divided between two entities: Direccion
General de Telecomunicaciones (DGT) and Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunica-
ciones Internacionales (GUATEL Int.). Operation of the domestic public tele-
graph services over circuits provided by DGT was the responsibility of
Direccion General de Correos y Telegrafos (DGCT), a government department
responsible also for postal service.
2.02      DGT was responsible for local and long-distance telephone service.
The national budget provided funds for DGT's operating expenditures; the
revenues collected by, or for, DGT were turned over to the Treasury. DGT's
statute and organization were not satisfactory and its operations were barely
Drofitable. DGT's technical staff was, however, capable.
2.03      GUATEL Int. was established in 1966 to take over the operation of
the international telegraph and telephone services formerly provided by the
Tropical Radio Company, a foreign concessionnaire. Subsequently, it was
authorized to operate the country's telex services. Organized on a commercial
basis, GUATEL Int. was an efficient and dynamic entity. It had capable staff,
an effective planning and development unit and was highly profitable.
2.04      At the time of the preparation of the first national telecommunica-
tions expansion program, for which Bank financing was sought, the Government
recognized the necessity of reorganizing the sector to provide for integration
and overall operation on a commercial basis. As a result of discussions
between the Government and the Bank concerning this reorganization, GUATEL
took over the personnel and functions of DGT and GUATEL Int..
2.o5      The creation of GUATEL eliminated the division of responsibility
for operation of the telephone and telex services, and resulted in a better
use of available resources and facilities. However, Guatemala still has the
next-to-lowest telephone density among the Central American countries, that
is, 0.77 telephones per 100 inhabitants (Annex 1).
2.06      GUATEL represents Guatemala on the Regional Technical Commission
on Telecommunication (COMTELCA), a coordinating body of the five Central
American republics, and owns and operates the Guatemala portion of the Central
American regional microwave network, which was completed in November 1971.
Regulation and Tariffs
2.07      The overall policy control of the telecommunications sector is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Communications and Public Works (paragraph
3.02). Coordination of sector investments under the national economic plan
remains with the National Planning Council (CONAPLAN).
2.08      The law establishing GUATEL empowers its Board to set tariffs for
its services on the recommendations of the general manager. International
tariffs and related tariff-sharing are established by agreement between
GUATEL and the foreign entities concerned.



-3-
2.09      GUATEL inherited certain tariff structure anomalies and govern-
ment subscribers were given the concession of being charged the lowest
monthly rental with no additional charge for either long-distance or excess
local calls. Other rentals included a large number (400) of free, 3-minute
call units per month which led to uneconomic and excessive usage. During
negotiations for the first Bank loan, GUATEL agreed to revise these tariffs.
Accordingly, subscriber categories are now limited to residential and
non-residential, without concessions to government subscribers. In the case
of the free call units, GUATEL could not lower the number because of legal
constraints (a sales contract with a specified number of free calls), but
has reduced the duration of the units to 2-¼ minutes.  Annex 2 shows the
principal tariffs now in effect for telecommunications services in Guatemala.
2.10      GUATEL's telephone tariffs are reasonable and are comparable to
those of other similar autonomous telecommunications entities in Central
America (e.g., El Salvador and Costa Rica).
Existing Facilities
2.11      GUATEL has 15 automatic exchanges serving about 40,400 subscribers
and 133 manual exchanges serving 1,500 subscribers, making an existing total
of 41,900 subscribers. The First Development Plan will add some 38,100 ex-
ohange lines to the network by 1976. At present, services are heavily con-
centrated in the Guatemala City metropolitan area, which accounts for 92
percent of the total subscribers.
2.12      The long-distance network consists mainly of carrier equipment over
open-wire lines, UHF/VHF radio systems and some cable lines. The total number
of circuit kilometers is about 11,000. STD exists between Guatemala City and
four other cities in Guatemala, and toll manual switchboards are installed
in four cities. There are 408 public pay stations in rural areas. Details
of existing facilities are given in Annex 3.
2.13      International telephone services are provided by some 194 circuits
through the COMTELCA microwave network and an automatic international exchange.
2.14      Telex services, mainly international, are provided by an exchange
with a 240 line capacity in Guatemala City, and 20 lines in Quezaltenango.
There are 225 telex subscribers in the country.
Quality of Service
2.15      Existing local and long-distance telephone facilities are inadequate
to meet the country's current requirements. There is an average waiting time
of at least two years for telephone connection, and the long-distance service
is of poor quality, limited in coverage and congested. Major improvements
will result from the execution of the First Development Plan, which is now
scheduled to be completed in 1976. The microwave network which is being
constructed as part of this plan will greatly improve the quality and extend
the capacity of the existing long-distance service. Details of ongoing works
in Guatemala are shown in page 1, Annex 4.



-h -
2.16      International facilities improved greatly since the introduction
of the Central American (COMTELCA) network.  Traffic increased rapidly
since -the inauguration of the fully automatic international telephone ex-
change, which allows direct subscriber dialing to several Central American
countries and the USA.  Similarly, international telegraph and telex services
are or satisfactoryr quality.
Sector Objectives
2.17      GUA'EL is ncw responsible for all telecommunications service
(except local telegraphy).  The changes in its organization during 1°73
(raraCraplA 3.0$) will permit progress towards fitting it to meet the L-owth ojld
service objectives, but further improvements are needed, especially in the area
of training (paragraphs 3.07 and 3.08). GUATEL has, however, not yet been able
to satisfy a significant portion of the demand for telecommunications in Guatemala.
In addition,, t1he auality of the telephone service offered to the Dublic is Door
(paragraph 2.15). The first step is to improve the quality of existing services
by expanding facilities to relieve congestion.  Subsequently, GUATEL will be able
to make progress within the resources available, in reducing the considerable
unsatisfied demand for new connections. These objectives are expected to be achieved
on completion of the proposed project.



-5-
3. THE BORROWER
3.01      The Borrower would be Empresa Guatemalteca de Telecomunicaciones
(GUATEL), a government-owned autonomous corporation established on April 14,
1971. GUATEL's purpose, structure, responsibilities and authorities are
set out in the GUATEL law, which is summarized in Annex 5. GUATEL is defined
by law as an autonomous organization, subject to direction in policy matters
by Government; it is exempt from all taxes. Its legal standing is considered
satisfactory. Although GUATEL has made substantial progress in resolving the
problems connected with the merging of the predecessor entities, further
consolidation is necessary.
Organization, Management and Staff
3.02      GUATEL's organization chart is shown in Annex 6.  Its Board of
Directors consists of five members, as follows: the Minister of Communica-
tions and Public Works, who serves as its chairman; the Minister of Foreign
Affairs; the Minister of the Interior and two other directors appointed by
the President of the Republic. The Board and management are vested with the
necessary powers to operate the entity efficiently.
3.03      GUATEL's general manager, who is appointed by, and responsible to, the
Board of Directors, is in charge of all the administrative, financial and technical
activities of GUATEL. He is assisted by two deputy managers. A substantial im-
provement in GUATEL's organization has been accomplished since the first Bank loan
was made. The former technical and administrative departments were reorganized
into five departments along more clearly defined functional lines, as follows: admin-
istrative, financial, operations, planning and construction. Each is under
the direction of a department head, who in turn is accountable to the general
manager. This change reflects the increase in size of the entity and an in-
creasing awareness of the importance to GUATEL's institutional development
of the technical planning and construction tasks, and of the financial
planning and control functions.
3.04      GUATEL's senior management is well qualified and dedicated, and has the
necessary management potential.
3.05      With the proposed expanded STD facilities and the emerging fully-
automatic national telephone network, greater emphasis will need to be given
to traffic engineering and network management. GUATEL is in the process of
setting up a traffic engineering organization and procuring traffic measuring
equipment to provide basic information for supervision and planning purposes.
3.06      GUATEL's present staff numbers 1,627.  This includes 150 executives
and engineers, and 606 employees engaged in construction and installation
work on a contract basis. During negotiations for the previous Bank loan,
GUATEL agreed to maintain the ratio of total staff per 1,000 telephones at a
level of 24. Present total staff amounts to 36 employees per 1,900O telephones,
or 24 if the employees temporarily engaged on construction and installation
work are excluded. GUATEL is expected to achieve a substantial expansion in
the number of telephones in service beginning in 1976, and it should be possible
to reduce the present overall employee ratio of 36 per 1,000 telephones
despite personnel increases needed to manage its expanding operations. GUATEL
has agreed during negotiations to achieve an overall level of 2h er.ployees
per 1,000 telephones by June 30, 1977.



-6-
Training
3.07      Thus far, GUATEL has had no difficulty in recruiting qualified
staff from universities and vocational schools. Specialized telecommuni-
cations training has been provided by equipment suppliers, ITU fellowships,
and the regional telecommiunications training center (INCATEL) in El Salvador.
However, to cope with the increasing needs of its expanding facilities,
GUkT-L intends to establish its own training center, both for orientation
of new personnel and for continuing training of existing personnel.
3.08      Expansion of GUATEL's training program would be implemented in
close collaboration with the training advisory service of the Instituto
T6cnico de Capacitacifn y Productividad (INTECAP) which is the agency res-
ponsible for training in Guatemala. A tentative training program is
summarized below:
1973         1978
Number of instructor years
Technical                                    4             22
Administrative                               2              3
Man-months of training:
Technical                                  440         2,750
Administrative                              38            41o
GUATEJL is preparing proposals to be reviewed with expert assistance specifying
the facilities and equipment needed and determining instructor requirements.
It was agreed during negotiations that the proposals would be made available
-to the Bank for comment within sixty days from the effective date of the
loan.
Audit
3.09      GUATEL's accounts are subject to continuous internal audit by a
statutory auditor, to control-of-payments audits by the Contraloria de Cuentas,
a government auditing body, and annually by a firm of independent auditors  (para-
graph 6.05).



- 7 -
4.  THE PRoGRAIpi AND THE PROJECT
The Program
4.01      GUATEL's investment program through 1981 consists of ongoing
works from the First Development Plan (1971-1975) and new works for the
overlapping Second Development Plan (1°75-1981).  GUATEL proposes to
complete the Second Development Plan in two phases: Phase I, from 1975 to
1978, and Phase II, from 1978 through 1981. The total cost of the Second
Development Plan is estimated at US$78 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$57 million; its main items are shown in Annex 7.
The Project
4.02      The project, which is Phase I of the Second Development Plan,
consists of:
a.  increase of the telephone network capacity by 82,900 exchange
lines, together with the associated expansion of the cable net-
work, distribution facilities and buildings to permit connection
of an additional 60,000 direct exchange lines (DELs);
b.  expansion of long-distance facilities by microwave, VHF/UHF radio,
cable, and open wire systems to provide an additional 722 trunk
channels;
c.  expansion of the capacity of the international telephone exchange
by 600 circuits and installation of a new main trunk exchange with
a final capacity of 3,000 circuitg,equipped for 1,200 circuits to
cater for traffic growth and further implementation of subscriber
dialing;
d.  improvement and expansion of the rural telephone system to cover
an additional 86 locations by use of UHF/VHF radio systems;
e.  expansion of the telex network  by 250 lines; and
f.  expansion of training facilities, employment of instructors and
technical consultants and purchase of training equipment for the
training center.
Details of the planned exchange capacities, of the long-distance construction
program, and of the project service targets are shown in Annex 4; the long-
distance network is also illustrated on the map at the end of this report.
Cost Estimates
4.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$45.9 million with
a US$32.9 million foreign component; the main items are summarized below.
Details showing expenditures by year and service category are given in
Annex 8.



-8-
Summary of Project Costs
(Q or US$ million)
% of Total
Local    Foreign   Total    Expenditure
Local telephone exchanges
and network                     6.01      19.80    25.81         56.3
Trunk switching and
long-distance network           1.14       6.40     7.54         16.4
Telex network                     0.07       o.68     0.75          1.6
Training and consultants          0.70       1.00     1.70          3.7
Land and buildings                3.02        -       3.02          6.6
Project base cost                10.94      27.8 h38.2
Contingencies - physical          o.48       0.95     1.43          3.1
- price             1.58      4.03      5.61        12.2
Total contingencies               2.0                              1.
Total project cost               13.00      32.86    45.86        100.0
Foreign cost estimates are based on price quotations obtained by GUATEL from
various manufacturers late in 1973 and adjusted in the light of our recent
experience with international tenders. These costs are considered reasonable.
4. o4     GUATEL has already decided on the telephone and telex exchange
capacities and radio equipment terminals to be included in the project; the
only foreseeable quantity variation would be in categories affected by final
design and execution, such as cable for local networks and civil works. Consequc-ntl;-,
physical contingencies were estimated at about 10% of the network portion
of local system expansion only, or US$1.43 million.
4.05      The price contingency allowance for the foreign exchange component
was calculated at the rate of 10% per annum, and totals 14% of base cost plus
physical contingencies. Since contracts for most items to be included in
the project are expected to be signed by mid-1976 at the latest, these
allowances are reasonable. A price contingency allowance of 10% per annum
has also been allowed for local expenditures.
Project Financing
4.06      The foreign cost of the project would be financed as follows:



-9-
US$ million
IBRD     CABEI       GUATEL          Total
Local telephone network:                                                  19,80
Exchange equipment              8.68                  1.58   10.26
Local cable networks and
subscribers plant             9.54                           9.54
Trunk switching and long-
distance network:                                                        6.40
International and trunk
Switching equipment            -         4.21       0.04    4.25
Microwave equipment             0.57                           0.57
UHF/VHF equipment               0.50                           0.50
Cable and OW systems            0.12                           0.12
Equipment for rural services   0.96                            0.96
Telex network exchange equip.    0.68                                       0.68
Training, consultants and misc.  1.00                                      1_00
Unallocated                       3.95       0.75        0.28               4.98
Total                          26.00       4.96       1.90              32.86
Procurement
4.07      Procurement of equipment and materials to be financed by the proposed
loan would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for procurement, except for some switching equipment
(amounting to about US$2.0 million) to extend existing installations where
direct compatibility is essential; this equipment would be purchased directly
from the supplier with whom the original contract was placed following inter-
national competitive bidding under the previous Bank loan. The switching
equipment, financed by CABEI, will be purchased under CABEI's guidelines
for procurement which is satisfactory.
4.08      In agreements relating to the first Bank loan, the Bank agreed that
manufacturers from the Central American Common Market (CACM), including those
in Guatemala, would be allowed a regional margin of preference of 15% of the
c.i.f. price or 50% of the applicable customs duty whichever is lower. GUATEL
has requested the same arrangement under the proposed loan, and this has been
provided for in the loan documents. The items likely to be competitive under
this arrangement are wood telephone poles, cables and PVC ducts; their cost
is not expected to exceed US$2.5 million.
4.09      Because of long lead times it is desirable that GUATEL should be
able to make commitments before loan approval for goods with a value of about
US$3.0 million, including the US$2.0 million for direct purchases mentioned
in paragraph 4.07 above. No retroactive financing under the Bank loan is
proposed.



- 10 -
Disbursement
4.10      Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against appropriate
documentation for the c.i.f. costs of imported goods, the foreign exchange
cost of equipment installation, and the foreign exchange costs of consul-
tants and training. Since the project will not satisfy the existing demand,
any unused loan balance should be made available to GUATEL, after consulta-
tion with the Bank, for the purchase of additional goods of similar type to
those procured under the loan. A schedule of estimated semiannual disburse-
ments from the proposed loan is shown in Annex 9.
Project Execution
4.11      GUATEL's timetable of exchange installations and the construction
program for the new long-distance systems are given in Annex 4. The project
is expected to be completed by December 1978.
4.12      GUATEL has the basic planning, engineering and supervisory capa-
city to execute and operate the project; hence, the use of outside expertise
would be limited and would in the main apply to the Guatemala City multi-
exchange network.  GUATEL has agreed to employ qualified consultants   ac-
ceptable to the Bank for this work,and within sixty days from the effective
date of the loan to review with the Bank the proposals prepared by the con-
sultants.
4.13      As in the first project, the construction of larger installations
would be carried out mainly by contractors, with the assistance and under
the supervision of GUATEL. GUATEL's staff would effect the planned transfers
of existing switching equipment, since they have gained sufficient installa-
tion experience. Similarly, GUATEL would carry out the cable laying, jointing
and commissioning of distribution cables and the acceptance tests for all
installed equipment. It would also supervise the construction of the cable
dlcts, manholes and buildings by local contractors.



- 11 -
5. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
5.01      The project's objectives are to:
(a)  improve the quality of existing services by relieving congestion;
(b)  meet the growth in traffic and part of the demand for telephone
service in existing and new areas;
(c) extend and improve telex services; and
(d) extend and improve telecommunication services in rural areas.
Market Demand
5.02      Historical growth in demand has averaged about 10% per year, whereas
actual lines connected have over the past nine years increased by only 7%
per year. This has resulted in a high unsatisfied demand of around 60,000
waiting applicants at the end of 1973. Annex 10 shows past and forecast
subscriber growth. GUATEL's projection of annual growth of new demand
averages about 10% per annum for the next eight years, which is in line with
previous trends and experience in other developing countries, and is rea-
sonable. GUATEL's development program calls for 88,400 additional subscriber
connections (DEL) during the 1975-78 period. However, as about one-third
of the connections (28,400 DEL) are coming from the ongoing project for which
the installation work is nearing completion, and some work for the remaining
two-thirds (60,000 DEL) to be provided from the project itself, such as cable
ducting, has already been done, this should be possible. GUATEL thus plans
to reduce the waiting list to about 32,000 by the end of 1978. This is still
equivalent to an average waiting period for service of 11 months but is con-
sidered the best that can be achieved with the resources available.
5.03      The demand for long-distance service is based on traffic and
circuit studies carried out with the assistance of staff from the Interna-
tional Telecommunications Union (ITU). These studies took into account the
increase in the number of telephones, the growth in traffic, and improvement
in the quality of service. GUATEL's long-distance program has been based
on individual traffic estimates for all routes. The forecast shows an ex-
pected annual overall traffic growth rate of 20%, which is realistic.
5.04      International telephone traffic has been growing rapidly, espe-
cially after the introduction of the COMTELCA microwave network in 1971 and
the automatic international exchange in 1974. The forecast growth rate, which
was determined with the help of COMTELCA and ITU experts for the Central
American region, is around 30% per year during the project period,which is realistic.
5.o5     (WGATEL's plans contemplate providing telecommunications services
to some 10% of the rural communities by 1981. While these services are
often initially unprofitable, GUATEL believes its plan - and the related
rural expansion program - justified by the economic benefits which im-
proved communications will bring to the rural areas.   The latter result



- 12 -
from the fact that efficient organization of production, distribution and
marketing of agricultural products depends on access to rapid and reliable
comminications.  This plan, as part of a balanced national expansion program,
appears reasonable.
5.06      Statistical data gathered by GUATEL points to a growing need for
telex service and rapidly increasing internal and international traffic. Both
demand and traffic are projected to grow at around 30% annually.
Least-Cost Solution
5.07      GUATEL made fundamental decisions including the national numbering,
switching, charging and transmission plans, before starting its First Develop-
ing Plan in 1971. Similarly, the choice and disposition of the microwave
and the UHF/VHF radio link systems for the long-distance network were soundly
based and provide the framework for future telecommunications expansion in-
eluding the facilities to be provided in the project.
5.08      Optimizing the design of large works in the project has been
achieved by making present-value studies of the capital and operating cost
of practical alternatives over a 20-year period, using a discount rate of
11%, which approximates the opportunity cost of capital in Guatemala. For
the remaining small works, GUATEL's engineers have used present-value studies
to obtain generalized solutions for each class of plant and to reach decisions
regarding the particular type and size to be selected. On the basis of these
studies, the project represents the least-cost solution to meet GUATEL's
needs.
Return on Project Investment
5.09      The rate of return on the project - defined as the discount rate
which equalizes the stream of expected revenues attributable to the project
with the capital and operating costs - is 17.6% (Annex 11). If the project's
investment and operating costs are increased by 10% and revenues attributable
to it decreased by 10%, its rate of return would be 10.4%.   While these
calculations do not reflect price inflation in the project's capital or ope-
rating costs other than those mentioned in paragraphs 4.04-05 and Annex 16,
if is expected that revenues would be increased to offset any further infla-
tion-related cost increases. The economic rate of return is undoubtedly
higher because (i) the prices charged do not adequately measure the full-
benefits to subscribers, especially commerce, industry and agriculture; and
(ii) project costs include the full cost of extending service to new areas,
even though the full benefit would be obtained only when all potential sub-
scribers in those areas are connected. The rate of return on the project
of 17.6% indicates that even on the basis of current tariffs the prices paid
by subscribers are, on average, greater than the marginal cost of supply.



- 13 -
6. FINANCE
Introduction
6.01      During its three and-a-half years of existence, GUATEL has been
undergoing a consolidation process, involving not only transfer of assets
from, and assumption of liabilities of, the two forerunner entities, but also
the integration of varied accounting systems, organizations and methods of
operation and a large number of personnel. Notwithstanding, GUATEL has
performed well. With the assistance of CABEI and the Bank, it has been
carrying out its First Development Plan in a generally satisfactory manner.
Despite recent worldwide price inflation, cost overruns are expected to be
minor and covered by internal resources. In 1973, GUATEL enjoyed a rate of
return of 18%. Because of its recently increased tariffs and special ar-
rangements with the Government regarding net earnings and their distribution,
during the project period GUATEL is expected to finance with its own resources
a reasonable share (35%) of its expansion requirements, while remaining
financially viable.
Earnings Record and Financial Position
6.02      GUATEL's 1972-1973 income statements, balance sheets and selected
financial indicators are shown in Annexes 12, 13 and 14, respectively. In
1973 - its first year of really consolidated operation - GUATEL realized a
revenue growth of 21%, while operating expenses increased 10%. This resulted
in net earnings of Q 3.5 million, up 30% from 1972 results. Its rate of
return as defined under the existing Bank loan was 18.2%, a level well in
excess of the agreed upon 10% minimum. Its high earnings together with a
low long-term debt/equity ratio (28/72) allowed the utility to enjoy a com-
fortable liquidity position (a current ratio of 1.7) and high debt service
coverage (6.4 times), both indicative of ample borrowing capacity.
6.03      The Bank is GUATELts largest creditor.  GUATEL has also borrowed -rom
CABEI, its only other present creditor. Outstanding balances of bond issues
by its forerunner entities were anortized in full in 1973. Details of GUATEL's
outstanding debt are included in Exhibit 3 of Annex 16.
Government Receivables
6.04      Although entitled to offset past due government accounts against
govermient participations-/, GUATEL has not been able to effect such compen-
sations due to an anomaly in the enabling law. EN-en though past due amounts
/ GUATEL is exempt from all taxes, but Article 23 of its enabling legisla-
tion (Decree No. 14-71) obligates it to set aside 50% of annual net profits
for distribution in cash (participations) to the Government (45/) and its
employees (5%).



- i4 -
have consistently been small, the appraisal mission requested that the
situation be resolved because of its potentially adverse effects on project
financing. GUATEL has taken steps in this direction and the Government
agreed during negotiations to establish, not later than six months from the
effective date of the proposed loan, procedures enabling GUATEL to effect
said compensations in the future.
External Auditors
6.o5      GUATEL's accounts have been audited annually by Messrs. Lizarralde
y Ayestas, Asociados, a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
GUATEL has not yet complied with the existing loan agreement covenant regarding
tinely submission of the independent auditor's reports.  Over the next two
years    audit reports may only be received some 6 months after closing the
accounts. However, it is anticipated that ongoing improvements in accounting
will then become effective,  and that the reports will be submitted within 4
months.  The proposed loan agreement repeats the existing covenant, whereby
GUATEL agrees to have an accounting firm acceptable to the Bank audit its accounts
annuaIly and transmit the auditor's full report to the Bank within four months
from the end of each fiscal year.
Tariffs
6.06      In line with agreements reached during negoviations for the existing
Bank loan, GUATEL introduced certain tariff modifications to eliminate un-
justified concessions to government subscribers and to reduce a previously
general and unduly high free use of telephone facilities (paragraph 2.09).
Also, in preparation for its second development plan, GUATEL increased con-
nection fees in June 1974 from Q 100 to Q 200 per subscriber in Guatemala City
and to Q l50 in the provinces.  This tariff action was adopted to provide a
rationing device as well as an additional source of investment capital.
Present tariff levels assure the financial viability of GUATEL during the
project period (paragraph 6.17), while mobilizing a reasonable share of its
expansion requirements (paragraph 6. 15).
6.07      The appraisal mission noted that there rema D d an aspect of GUATEL's
tariffs which, in view of the statutory participations_, required clarifica-
tion. It related to the accounting treatment of its connection fees (Q 150-200
per subscriber), which were being credited in full to current income and,
hence, 50% distributed as participations. During discussionls with GUATEL it was agreed
that the amount credited to income should not exceed the costs (capital, labor, admin-
istrative,etc.) of providing the installation; these were estimated to average Q 30-50
per subscriber. Mforeover, crediting the entire connection fee to income would,
with the planned major increase in the rate of connections, result in an un-
intended but unduly high level of participations during the project period.
This, in turn, would unacceptably reduce GUATEL's contribution to expansion
financing. Accordingly, in December 1974, GUATEL's Board of Directors adopted
a resolution limiting the proportion of the connection fees to be credited to
current income to 25% for subscribers in Guatemala City and 20% in the provinces;
See footnote on page 13.



- 15 -
the balances will be treated as subscribers capital contributions. In view
of the importance of these subscribers capital contributions to expansion
financing GUATEL agreed during negotiations that suspension, repeal or amend-
ment of the December 1974 resolution will be an event of suspension.
Investment and Financing Plans
6.o8      The following table summarizes GUATEL's investment requirements and
financing plans during the 4-year project period, 1975-1978. It should be
noted that three projects overlap during this period: the final stages of
the ongoing project which is being financed in part by the existing Bank loan,
the project subject of this appraisal which is to be financed in part by the
proposed second Bank loan, and the initiation of a future project. Further
details are shown in the projected sources and applications of funds, Annex 15.
Amount             %  of
Q or US$ OOO's         Total
Investment Requirements
Construction program_/:
First Development Plan (ongoing project)       11,885
Second Development Plan -
Phase I (the project)                        44,817-/
Second Development Plan -
Phase II (future project)                    14,952
Total construction prQgram                            71,654         89.1
Other ancillary investment3/                                  2,595         3.2
Working capital and other assets-net                          6,196          7.7
Total investment requirements                              80           100.0
Financing Plan
Internal cash generation                         37,954
Less debt service4/                             (17,365)
Subscribers capital contributions                11,778
Less government and employees parti-
cipations                                       4,514)
Net cash generation                                        27,853        34.6
Borrowings:
Exdsting loans                                  7, 215V
Proposed loans - IBED                          25,417W
- CABEI                         4,960
Future loans (Phase II)                        10,0600 /
Bonds                                           5,000
Total borrowings                                      52L592         65.4
Total financing                                     80,445        100.0
1/       s interest during construction since all financial charges are expensed.
Project disbursements of Q1,047 thousand are expected outside the 1975-1978 period.
3/Office furniture and equipment, vehicles, etc.
:/Includes interest during construction and commitment fees.
v/Includes a supplemental loan of US$0.6 million from CABEI for the ongoing project
(paragraph 6.11).
2/Withdrawal of an additional US$583,000 is expected in 1979.
W/See paragraph 6.14.



- 16 -
6.09      G1JATELTs substantial investment program is aimed at improving
quality of existing service and at rapidly reducing a large unsatisfied demand
over the next eight years. During the project period, such reduction would
be from an estimated 58% in 1974 to around 13% by 1979 (Annex 10).  Fulfill-
ment of these objectives calls for increasing gross utility plant 3.4 fold
during the project period, and implies high annual rates of growth in new
installations; 28% on the average. Such growth points to the high demands
that would be placed on GUATEL's management and personnel, and success would
depend largely on their ability to cope with them. Allowing for the consi-
derable increase in facilities being provided under the ongoing project which
are not yet in service, and in view of the dynamism which appears to
characterize      management, our current expectations are that they will
achieve the expected growth.
6.10      The bulk of the investment program (89%) would be for construction;
the remainder includes such necessary allied investments as office furniture
and equipment. About two-thirds of the construction expenditures would be
for the second project proposed to be financed by the Bank; the remaining
third represents final expenditures on the ongoing project and initial ex-
penditures on the future project.
6.11      To complete financing the ongoing project, GUATEL is in the process
of securing congressional approval for a Q 5.0 million bond issue and for a
supplemental loan from CABEI of US$0.6 million.  The Banco de Guatemala wJl
act as the financial agent for the bond issue on a firm underwriting basis,
which assures its placement (paragraph 6.16).
6.12      The financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Bank project is
shown Jn paragraph 4.o6.  CABEI would provide US$4.96 million and GUATEL
US$1.9 million. No other medium or long-term foreign exchange financing on terms
adequate for a utility at GUATEL's stage of development is available. CABEI's financing
consists of two loans. One of US$2.16 million for the expansion of the inter-
urban network, has already been signed and is in the process of
congressional approval. The second loan of US$2.8 million is in advanced
stage of negotiations and is part of an overall investment program of the
Regional Technical Telecommunications Commission (CONTELCA) for the expansion
of the Central American microwave network, in which the five Central American
telecommrunications companies participate. While the COMTELCA package ex-
pansion program in general, and the loan to GUATEL in particular, are being
considered sympathetically by CABEI, they have yet to be approved and subse-
quently ratified by Congress (paragraph 6.16)
6,13      Ite proposed Bank loan would cover the balance of the foreign
exchange cost and would be for US$26 ml2lion equivalent for a term of 20
years, including 4 years of grace, and at the current Bank interest rate.
The loan would represent 57% of the estimated project cost and 79% of its
foreign exchange component.
6.2L      in accordance with preliminary estimates of investment requirements
and ±Pm ane <g arrangements for the future project, GUATEL would seek to borrow
from a-y^t-= .identified foreign sources about US$25 million in the form of
long-terr; .ns. US$10 million of these funds are expected to be drawn down
arLnC- ine.' J:eca period.  It is anticipated that GUATEL and the Government



- 17 -
would in due course request the Bank and CABEI to participate in such financing.
Under the arrangement mentioned in paragraph 6.20, the Bank would be in a
position to review the proposed future project (Phase II) before it can be
initiated.
6.15      The financing plan as detailed above is considered sound.  GUATELts
net cash generation will cover about 35% of the total investment program and
exceeds the requirements for 'Local currency expenditures for a program which
will not only provide facilities to meet normal growth, but will also meet
part of the large pent-up demand. To achieve a larger contribution GUATEL
would have to increase tariffs, which would be unjustified given the expected
satisfactory rates of return (Annœx 14).
6.16      Corporate and congressional authorization of the Q5.0 million bond issw and of ttie
US$0.6 million first CABEI loan (paragraph 6.11) and the US$2.16 million second
CABEI loan (paragraph 6.12) are conditions of effectiveness to the proposed Bank
loan. While expansion of GUATEL's international facilities to be supported by
the US$2.8 million third loan being negotiated with CABEI (paragraph 6.12) is
not as immediately needed as the other items in the project, it is nevertheless
necessary in a technically balanced program and will, from 1977 onward, be of
significant importance from a revenue-cearning point of view as existing capacity
becomes fully utilized. The proposed Bank loan agreement provides that failure
to obtain the US$2.8 million loan and to fulfill all conditions precedent to its
effectiveness by June 30, 1976 would be events of suspension. As under the
existing loan, the Government agreed during negotiations that in the event there
should arise reasons to believe that GUATEL will not have sufficient funds to
assure the timely completion of the project, including possible cost overruns,
it will provide them in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. These arrangements
allow the proposed Bank loan to go forward and, hence, initiation of the bulk
and more urgent portion of the project - which does not depend on the availability
of the third CABEI loan - while assuring the full and timely financing for
the project.
Future Earnings and Financial Position
6.17      GUATEL's projected income statements, balance sheets, sources and
applications of funds, main forecast assumptions and selected financial indi-
cators, are contained in Annexes 12 to 16. They assume implementation of the
accounting treatment of connection fees discussed in paragraph 6.07 and con-
tinuation of the annual debt service charge mentioned in paragraph 6.19 below.
They indicate that GUATEL's financial outlook would be satisfactory. During
the project period, its rate of return, though decreasing, would not fall
below 13%; its debt service coverage would be satisfactory, and its liquidity
acceptable, despite the rapidly increasing indebtedness; the ratio of long-
term debt to net utility plant, however, would not exceed two-thirde,which
is reasonable.
6.18      The tariff covenant of the existing Bank loan provides that GUATEL
shall earn a rate of return of at least 10%. To assure both the 35% contri-
bution by GUATEL to expansion financing mentioned in paragraph 6.15 and its
long-term operation on a sound financial basis, during negotiations GUATEL



-                      ~~~~~~~- 18 -
agreed to substitute for this covenant a two-step undertaking that its tariffs
will be maintained at such levels as shall be required to produce:
a. During the project period, net cash generation (after debt service
and participations) equivalent to the following proportions of the
total net fixed assets each year,  revalued from time  to time
i.n a  manner acceptable to the banc:  6/ in 197i; 10; in 1976 and
1977,  and 86 in 1978; and
b.  commencing in 1979, net operating income (after participations but
before initerest and other charges on debt) sufficient to yield an
annual rate of return of not less than 11" on the average revalued
net utility plant in service.
6.19      In addition, the Government agreed during negotiations to extend GUATEL's
present authority to charge annually its profit and loss account with the amounts
needed to service its debt (principal and financial charges) to include the service
of the new, projected indebtedness. Since this authority is given in the congres-
sional decrees authorizing or ratifying each of the loans or the bonds, this
agreement is included in the proposed loan agreement as a condition of effectiveness,
or an additional event of suspenlsion, as appropriate.
6.20       During negotiations GUATEL also agreed:
a.  not to undertake during the project period major expansion of its
facilities unless a financing plan has been approved by the Bank.
Major expansion is defined as capital expenditure exceeding Q 1.0
million or 5; of the previous yearts capital expenditure, whichever
is the higher; and,
b.  as under the existing loan, not to incur  any debt without the
Bank's approval, unless its most recent internal cash generation is at
least 1.5 times itsmaximum debt service for any succeeding fiscal year.
6.21      The appraisal mission learned that a feasibility study is in preparation
to determine whether provision of an underwater cable between the USA and Guatemala
supplementing other existing, less direct means of communication would be econom-
ically justified for traffic between the USA and the Central American countries.
It has been suggested that a multinational company would be established to operate
the submarine cable, and that it would be owned by those Central American telecom-
mrun-ications companies wishing to participate.  The proposed facility would be
expected to lower substantially the transmission costs of the traffic between the
USA and those countries. To assure that GUATEL's participation in such company
would not become a drain on its financial resources or a burden on its normal
operation, GUATEL agreed during negotiations not to participate in anr cmpany
if, W:y doing so, its financial candition or the efficiency of its mana-ement an-l
personnel would be ad-ersely and subs-tantially affected.
Performance Indicators
6.22      Selected performance indicators showing the expected achievement during
the project period are given in Annex 17. Actual progress will be monitored in
the course of' supervision.



- 19 -
7.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations,
(a)  GUATEL agreed:
(i)  to achieve a ratio of 24 employees per 1,000 telephones
by June 30, 1977 (paragraph 3.06);
(ii) to engage qualified experts acceptable to the Bank to assist
to the extent required in the planning of its training
facilities and in the design of the Guatemalan City multi-
exchange network, and to review with the Bank their proposals
within sixty days from the effective date of the proposed
Bank loan (paragraphs 3.08 and 4.12);
(iii) to retain independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
and submit audited financial statements and the auditor's
report within four months of the year end (paragraph 6.05);
(iv) that any changes in the "Resolucion" of GUATEL's Board of
Directors establishing the proportions of the connection
fees to be treated as subscribers capital contributions
would be an event of suspension (paragrapi± 6.U7);
(v)  that failure: (1) to obtain a loan of US$2.8 million from
CABBI for the expansion of its international facilities
and to fulfill all conditions precedent to its effectiveness
by June 30, 1976 (paragraph 6.16) and (2) to include in the
Congressional decree approving said loan authority to establish
and maintain a reserve for the service of this debt (paragraph
6.19) would be events of suspension;
(vi) to take all necessary action to maintain its telecommunications
tariffs set at levels whLch will provide:
(1)  during the project period, funds from internal resources
equivalent to not less than the following proportions of
its total net fixed assets: 6% in 1975, 10% in 1976, 10%
in 1977 and 8% in 1978 (paragraph 6.18(a)); and
(2) commencing in 1979, net operating income to produce an
annual ratt, of return of not less than 11% on its average
net utility plant in service (paragraph 6.18(b));
(vii)  not to undertake capital expenditures for any major expansion
of its facilities before the closing date of the proposed Bank
loan unless a financing plan has been approved by the Bank.
For this purpose, a major expansion is defined as a project
calling for a capital expenditure exceeding Q 1.0 million or



_ 20 -
5% of the previous year's capital expenditure by GUATEL,
whichever is the higher (paragraph 6.20(a));
(viii)  not to incur any debt without the Bank's concurrence unless
its net cash generation is at least 1.5 times its maximum
debt service for any succeeding year (paragraph 6.20(b));
(ix)  not to take a proprietary interest in any company if by doing
so its financial conditions or the efficiency of its management
and personnel would be adversely and substantially affected
(paragraph 6.21);
(b)  the Government of Guatemala agreed to establish, not later than
six months from the effective date of the proposed Bank loan,
procedures enabling GUATEL to offset past due government accounts
against its statutory participation in GUATEL's profits (paragraph 6.o4).
7.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26 million
equivalent, for a term of 20 years, including a 4-year period of grace.
7.03      Effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan will be contingent upon
corporate and congressional authorization or ratification for:
(a) a Q 5.0 million bond issue (paragraph 6.16);
(b) two loans from CABEI for an aggregate amount of US$2.76 million
equivalent (paragraph 6.16); and
(c) establishing and maintaining reserves to service these debts
(paragraph 6.19).
March 26, 1975



0             PIP      p       PCC>C>CPO>->P  CO  0CC>->  OWoCCO  >CC>PC>PCO   P>PpC>C>C>>.>C0P.O  P0>0  C>
Pp          P  C>PPP   PP  OPOP P   PpHP  OP> PP  <P P P>IC>I»                 P   Pft§ ft
0  p.10>0  P  OPH       0-pPP  POPOPPO    H»PO    POOP  POP-PC>  P                             P1 C>   » C> P.
C> P>PP.0    ft P  ft PC>0>P  PP   H PC>ft>P  P P C C> odoo   §          0      8
P            OPO          OPH  POP PP  P OP  P>->OP>P  HP  ?             C>  PP>PPPPC>          P   PP    *
PftP       >-     C>P     0»      ftP0                P         -Q                           C>
oos>o      »           H       P     P                                                                     k
C>                 H    0                                            --
>0          >C>C>                   >       »                          P   >0               C>              C>
I>                                                   8
PP                                           -              P               8
P   P           8       0                                                                           P               p
P   P  C>    C>    C>      P                                          P                             P               >0
C>P  P  -    P 0> I>'>-                                               P                             P
                          C>
0      ft       ft
p P  PHP-P  C>
PC> C>       P  C> PPP&  #
P            8  H       P P  1
g                                                                                         --HOC> C>. C>C>C>0 C>
PP P C> P                                                                             -  PP>PPPPP    C>   P
jaH0a
P     P P       PC>               000> C> 6000  OH C> P>00C> C>  C> C>0  H 0000>  0C>C>C> P>C>C>C>0 0>0>0.0  016RICPC>   00
O      P     P       PP P P               C>P>-C CC> C> C>» 0CC> 0C>P0>H  008C>C>  C> HOC> C> C> C>»C>0> C>C>P>pJLO  0000>6  0>10000  P  >0
OPPC>
-               C>     .>       ft
o               p          P
PP P  C>                                                                                                   I
HO ft
0      ft           >C>C>  1>                                                                                                       II
0               C> pPPP  ft POP                                                                               H
P P POOP H.Oft>
C>C>                                                                                                Li
o;                C>HP000000HC00>C>C>C>  0>0>C>HC>  0>C>C>C>C>C>0>PC>P  000.00>  C>C>-PC>--4 -OC>0C>C>
0  ftftC>  0  P PP                                                                                              0000
P0          -.         P   OP                  C>C                                                      H               C>       0
1*0.                     H  0>C>C>OHHC.CH
00                                                               C»-»    C>HC>  60  HPPC>0
*                >>o  .- 8          QC>C>   0>C>C>HC> HC>   00000  0C>HC>C>  OCH  PC> H->        C>0>P>0>          C>0C>C>
*              PPCP  P                CC>O  C> C  C> 0CC>     C               CCC            H  C>  C>   CC>        0  C          C>
C>          »  P   C> P  000        8000  C> 8 C> SC> C>C> 8C>8 8  8888>  C>  66            88C>8            8C>8C> 8 p  C> C>
H     P  P  C> P
PP>0P 0 PP
H           >   00   p  PPC>
8           6  0880                              H                    H                      H      H  OOOHC>0  00>00>
>0                  H     OPC>P>C>C>C>000P>C>HC>0C>C>0000>CH    0OC>C>C>0C>C>0                         C>    p
PP                   C>HH                   C>CC>C>C>P          C> POP   C0C>HC>01 0        000  PC>
PP   >0000>  HOHOC>  000  C>C> HOC>  C>C>C>C>CP >1>    0>>    0>0>00 000C>C>C>C>0CC>
POP      000                                                                          HC>C>C>C>C>HP0>C>C>   H         P
PHO   C> 000         00CC>  00000  CCC  00000  HHHHC>  0C>HHC>  C>C>C>C>H  C>0>0>C.CC> 00>00>0  0000
P  C>PP   PP  OH        CC>
»            200                               *                   1>  oo&z  sse   sw>zos s>&n                              C>
P    8                          C>            C>C>  C>C>       
P     OP                                        H                                                                              P5
o         o  got
P  H   POP  Oft                                                                                                I  00>
-     000                                                                                                                         5
OP        OHOC>  P\C>0>00  CC>C> COC> 00>  000>0 0 000>00  OCP'HC  OHOCO  00.00>0  CP>C>C>C>    C>
OOP        H H               OH  HHHHO                   HO HH  H 000>H000000 LOOC>
CC>0C>C>HC>0>0  0C>HC>000H  C>C>HCC  0>0>C>C C> 000CC>  0C>00                     H
ftoft                                                                                                P
P  POft                                                                                               C> C>
0008      0%                                                                                                    P       0
-  P P  00                                                                                                            p
P  PC>  POP                                                                                                       >          S
0        P P      0 00>0 C>0>C>C>C  CC> C> 0C>C>C>C>   >00>05 C>C>0>5C>        H   H         H
0000>  C> C>C>C>0  C>C>C>0C>PC> C>       0>0 C>C>C>0C>C>W    00CC  H ?P>P?          C>  C>
P 00>0 C> 00000 0>PTh >ftO->CC> C>C>C>C> C> 0>OOHC> 000>0C> 0000>0 POC-CO H 000>0
too                                                                                                              5'
O  p-    P0         H                     HP
PPC>     HOS    C>C>C0          C>C>'0     P       0        0     P         0000C>PHPPP   0>8>P
g0C>      C>C>C  00000          80000>                                 0'-0P
C>C>C>C>  rj-C>  rC>»C>r  ?r            r
>0               C>                                                                              8>
0>                                                                                                40
ft I     0>0000000C>C00C>0>C>HC>0 0000>  0>C>000  00000  HOCOC>  0>C>P0>00000C>   >> 0
PP                                                                                                OP5
CC>                             CC>                                                             F0
§5                                                                                                005
P                             oW                                                                C> 0
P                                                                                              f PC>
000000000.00>00000                         00000>0>> 0>00>000>0>                       L
P      C>0C>HCH0000H0  0>0>000  >000'0>t0 000>00  00000  >0>00>00  0>0000>  CC>C>C>H
P                                                               1
'HC>PP
000> PC C>0>P'PCftOO'V'O -p>PoC-0 C>C>0PO 02>0CC. C.> 000 00000 COOP P
*  C         C>                       00   --
C C>    -               00>    00.00000   0-  OH PH
0>0>>    0   > >0>  >0>0   0>0C>>  >'>C>>0  0>C>  C>            >     0>0>
H                                                                                                                               >  o
0                                         >>>>>>>>,>>,,>>>>>>>>>>>0>>>>>> 0000 00000 00000
0                                                                                                                               I



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
SUMMARY OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TARIFFS
GuatJm     Ci 0 ty       Provinces.
Cash.     by install-_ Cash        by install-
1, INTERNAL TELEPHONE                              e!        ment      nayment    ment
Installation fee and security deposit:      pqyienen
Residential category                         Q 200      Q 215   Q 150       Q 160
Non-residential category                     Q 200      Q 215   Q 150       Q 160
Montly rental      Charge per excess
Call fees:                                                              impulse
Residential category                              Q 3.00              Q 0.02
Non-residential category                          Q 8.00              Q 0.02
Note:  Monthly rentals include 400 free impulses.  The duration of impulses
for local traffic are:
Day (7 a.m. - 7 p.m.) 2 min. 15 sec.
Night (7 p.m. - 7 a.m.) 3 min. 22.5 sec.
Long-distance charges:
Automatic service (STD):
Day                          30 sec.)  Cost of impulse QO.02
Night                        45 sec. )
Manual service                      First 3 minutes    Each addl. minute
Day                          Q 0.50              Q 05
Night                        Q o.40              Q 0.03
Beginning 1976.p all long-distance calls will be registered and billed separately
fron local calls.  Three long-distance zones (60 km; 125 km and more than 125 kn)
and related tariff adjustments are under study.
2.   TELEX SERVICE
Installation fee                    Q 200
Monthly rental of equipment         Q  50
Call fees:
National                         URBAN                INTERURBAN
Day   Night         Day         Night
Duration of 1 impulse:       30"     60"          10"           20"
Cost of 1 impulse                          Q 0.02
International
Manual traffic                      minimum 3 minutes
Automatic traffic                   minimnum 3 minutes



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
3.   INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE:
CENTRAL AMERICA AND PANAMA
AUTOMATIC SERVICE               MANUAL SERVICE
(in Quetzales)
Person to Person   Station to Station
Per          First    Each      First       Each
Minute         3 min. addl.min.   3 min.  addl. min.
El Salvador     CT       0.50          2.20      0.50     1.50       0.50
RT       0.30         1.50      0.30     1.00        0.30
Honduras        CT       0.50          2.20      0.50     1.50       0.50
RT       0.30         1.50      0.30      1.00       0.30
San Pedro Sula  CT        -            2.80      0.70     2.10       0.70
RT        -           2.10      0.50     1.60        0.50
Nicaragua       CT        -           2.70       0.60     1.80       o.60
RT        -           1.80      0.40      1.20       o.4o
Costa Rica      CT       0.70         3.00       0.70     2.00       0.70
RT       0.50         2.00      0.50      1.40       0.50
Panama          CT        -             -         -       3.60       1.20
RT        -            -         -        2.70       0.90
4.  REST OF WRLD
Mexico          CT        -           5.20       1.04     3.38       1.04
RT        -           3.90      0.78      2.47       0.78
US - Florida    CT       1.30         6.00       2.00     4.00       2.00
RT       1.00         4.50      1.50      3.00       1.50
US - South-
eastern
(Zone 3 & 4)     CT       1.65         7.50      2.50      5.00       2.50
RT       1.30         6.oo      2.00     4.00        2.00
US - Northern
& Western
(Zone 5 to 8)   CT       2.00         9.00      3.00      6.oo       3.00
RT       1.65         7.50      2.50      5.00       2.50
South American
Countries     CT        -          10.00       2.50     7.50       2.50
RT        -           8.00       2.00     6.00       2.00
Germany         CT        -            -          -      18.00       6.oo
Note: CT - Full rate
RT - Reduced rate



COMPARISON OF TELEPHONE TARIFFS IN
CENTRAL AMERICA
(in US dollar equivalent)
Costa Rica       El Salvador        Guatemala       Honduras        Nicaragua
INSTALLATION FEE
Approximate average or
universal fee applicable to
all subscribers                      90.00             80.00             196.00          7.50             61.28
BASIC MONTHLY RATES
Residential                             4.07                                3.00         4.00
Professional                            NA                                   NA          5.00
Commercial                            5.80                                  8.00       6.oo-8.oo
Approximate average or
universal fee applicable
to all subscribers                     4.60             8.00               4.65          NA                3.50
ADDITIONAL IMPULES
Number of impulses included
in basic monthly charge             100               40o                400             Note A         Note B
Price per additional impulse           .0[14            0.02                0.02
Notes: A Honduras' basic monthly charge includes 100 urban calls. All long-distance calls are toll charges.
B All long-distance calls are toll charges in Nicaragua.
NA Not applicable.
October 1974.F
CD
a



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF SEChND TEIECOMNUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMULA
ENPRESA QUATDALTECA DR TE=ECONUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Telecommunications Facilities in Guatemala
(as of end of 1973)
Local Exchanges
1.        The local telephone network comprises 15 automatic exchanges with
a total installed capacity of 43,130 lines and 40339 subscriber connections
(DEL's). Other 1,469 subscribers are connected to 133 manual exchanges with
a total capacity of 3,209 lines in the provinces. The First Development Plan,
now underway, will add some 38,110 new exchange lines to the network in 1976,
bringing the total capacity to 81,240 lines. Services are concentrated in the
Guatemala City metropolitan area.  Page 2 of Annex 4  gives details on the type
and capacity of the existing exchanges. The subscriber networks consist
primarily of underground duct and cable distribution and overhead secondary
distribution. The quality of service is not satisfactory and should improve
substantially at the end of the First Development Plan in 1976.
Long-distance Network
2.        Guatemala City is linked to the main cities in the provinces with
carrier equipment over open-wire lines (12 circuits), UHF/VHF radio systems
(69 circuits) and by cable lines (30 circuits). The total number of circuit
kilometers is about Il,000. During the First Development Plan a large micro-
wave network will be constructed and operational by 1975, thus improving the
poor quality of the existing long-distance service and increasing the number
of trunk circuits by some 546 in 1976. This would give some relief to the
presently congested network. The main trunk routes are shown on the telecom-
munications map.
3.        Subscriber dialing through use of an automatic trunk exchange exists
between Guatemala City and Quezaltenango, Antigua, Amatitlan and Villa Nueva.
Besides in Guatemala City, toll manual switchboards are also installed in
Quezaltenango, Escuintla, Mazatenango and Zacapa.  Also, a HF radio telephone
network operates in the 2.5 to 7.8 MHz range with its central transmitting
station in Guatemala City. It provides service between the capital and some
15 cities in the provinces. All the circuits have a poor transmission quality.
The country's 22 departmentg have some 408 public telephone offices provided
by either automatic (190 offices) or manual services (218 offices).
Telex Srvice-
4.        Guatemala City has a 240 line capacity exchange and Quezaltenango
a 20 line one. The total number of subscribers is 225. GUATEL has purchased



ANNEx 3
Page 2 of 2 pages
a new national/international electronic telex exchange (Astrodata) with a
final capacity of 4h096 termination equipped initially in 1974 with 1,O024
terminations from which 736 are for subscribers, 256 for trunks and 32 for
operators and service purposes.
International Service
5.        Telephone service has been greatly improved and rapidly increased
since the beginning of the operation of the Central American Microwave
(CONITELCA) network in November 1971. In 1974., the automatic International
Telephone exchange was inaugurated, enabling the introduction of automatic
dialing to the USA, Mexico and other Central American countries.  At present,
there are 194 international circuits.  Eleven international telegraph and
24 international telex circuits are now in operation provided by the use of
OCGTELCA network.
October 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Existing Facilities - Ongoing Works - Project Service Targets
W&ll be added during
the rest of  the  roject   At the end
Existing     First Dev.   Second Dev.   of Phase I
Local Telephone System(automatic) Dec.31,1973         Plan       Plan-Phase I  Dec.31,1978
Number of exchanges                         15             15            14             44
Number of lines (capacity)             43,130          38,110        82,900        164,14o
Number of lines assigned (DEL)         40,339          28,364        60,080        128,783
Number of telephone instruments        45,471          33,800        68,000        147,271
Waiting subscribers                    59,661            -             _            32,217
Long-distance System
Switching:
International - No. of circuits         400            -              600          1,000
Interurban - No. of circuits            200            -            1,200         1,1400
Transmission:
International - No. of circuits         194             133           393            720
MW links - No. of channels               -              546           359            905
VHF and UHF links - No. of channels       69             74           279            422
OW lines, pairs km                      516              -            720         1,236
OW lines - No. of channels               12              -             36             48
Cable - No. of channels                   30             42            48            120
R-ural telephone - number               408              -             86      -     494
Telex System
Telex exchanges- No. of lines*          260           1,024           250          1,274
Telex exchanges- No. of subscribers    225              445           300            970
Number of teleprinters                  240             480           320          1,040
Number of international circuits          24             48            24             96
*  The existing 240-line exchange in Guatemala City will be replaced by a new electronic
exchange. The capacity of the new exchange includes trunk terminations.
August 1974



APPRAISAL OF SECOND TEIECOMMNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMAIA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TElECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
TElEPRONE EXCHANGES: TYPE AND CAPACITY (EqUIPPED LINES)
FIRST DEVEIOPMENT PLAN                                          SECOND DEVETMEn9 T      - PHASE        r             TOTAL
EXCHANGE             TYPE         1971          192           1973          1974          1975          1976            1975          1976         1977           1978           2273
METROPOLITAN AREA
Centro I                   EMD        1o,ooo        10,000        10,000        10,000        10,000        10,O0O                        lo,0o0       10,000         10,000          10,000
Centro IT                 EMc          7,000         7,00          7,000         7,000         7,000         7,000                         7,000        7,000         7,000            7,000
Centro ITI                 XB                                                                                5,000                        15,000*      15,000        22,000*          22,0o0o
Tivoli I                   EMD         8,000         8,ooo         8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000                         8,ooo        8,000          8,000           8,ooo
Tivoli II                  XB                                                                               13,000                        13,000       16,000*        16,ooo          16,000
Guarda Viejo I             EMD         6,ooo         6,ooo         6,ooo         6,o00         6,ooo         6,ooo                         6,ooo        6,06O         6,ooo            6,ooo
Gurada Viejo II                                                                                                                                        15,000*        15,000          15,000
Monte Verde                MOB                                                   1,000         1,000         1,000                         1,000        1,000
Reformita I                EMD         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000                         2,000        2,000          2,000           2,000
Eeformita II               MOB                                                   1,000         1,000         1,000                         1,000        1,000
El Caraeen                                                                                                                                                            10,000*         10,000
Vifla de Guadalnpe         EMS         2,500         2,500         2,500         3,500         3,500         3,500                         3,500         3,500         3,500           3,500
Victa Hermosa              EMD         1,000         1,000         1,000         3,000         3,000         3,000                         3,000         3,000         3,000           3,O0O
Parroquia I                EMD         2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500                         2,500        2,500         2,500            2,500
Parroquia II               MOB                                                   2,000         2,000         2,000                         2,000        2,000
Parroquia III                                                                                                                                                         10,000*         10,000
Agoncion                   MOB                                                   2,000         2,000         2,000                         2,000         2,000
Mixco                      MOB           24o40 0                     240           240           240           240                           24o           240
Monte Verde                XB         EE_             =2                                                     5.wo0                          5,000       15oo          25Oco*          25ooo
SUB-TOTAL                             39,240        39,20         34            4624                        71,20                         81,240      1920           140____          40 000
INLAND
lta1len,ngo                EMD         2,000         2,O0          2,000         2,000         2,000         4,000                          4,00         '4,ooo        4,ooo           4,ooo
Escuintla                  EMS           400           400           400           400           40k**                                        O 800                      SOo Do          800
Maczatenango               EMS           200           200           200           200           200**                                       8oo          800            800             800
Zacapa                     EMD           200           200           200           200           200**                                       700           700           700             700
Retahuleu                                                                                                                                  1,000         1,000        1,000            1,000
Puerto Barrios                                                                                                                               8 00          800          80               8O
Coatepeque                                                                                                                                    800          800           80              800
Chiquisaila                                                                                                                                  600          600            600             600
San Juan 8acat.                                                                                                                               500          500          50               50
San Lucas Sacat.                                                                                               500                           500           500           500             500
&ttiapa                                                                                                        500                           500          500           500             SW
Antig.a                    EM 6S                       600           600           600           600**                                      1,200 *      1,200         1,200           1,200
Asnatitlan                 EMS           400           400           4400          1400          I0O0**                                      700 *         700           700             700
Ville Nueva                EyD            90            90            90            90            90**         700                           700          7?00           700             700
Jalapa                                                                                                         7w0                            700          700           700             700
Huehuetenango                                                                                                  600                           6wo           600           6o              600
Chichicastenango                                                                                               500                           500           500           500             500
Totanicapan                                                                                                    500                            500          500           500             500
San Marcos                                                                                                     500                           500           500           500             500
Panajmchel                                                                                                     500                            500          500           500             500
quishe                                                                                                         500                            500          500           500             500
Malasatan                                                                                                      500                            500                                        So o2
SUE-TOTAL                                                                                                                                 17890  3.890  3,890  10,0oo 17,900  17,90  17.900  17,900
TRANEPEERD NISILE EXCHANGE                                                                                                                                             l,OOO           1,000
Barberena                                                                                                                                                              1,000           1,000
Coban                                                                                                                                                                  1,000           1,000
Paerto San Jose                                                                                                                                                        1,00           l,OOO ,0>
San Jose Pinula                                                                                                                                                          240             240
Villa Cansles                                                                                                                                                          1,000           1,000
Santa Lucia, Cto.                                                                                                                                                      1               1,000   "'c
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                              6,29b    ,
TOTAL                      143,130                     143,130          130 52,130                12.130 99k                                127,140       16       4,14 1 6140  , _
NETWORK ADDIIION                                                                                            38,110                                                    82,900         121,010   m
* To be financed by the proposed loan,
** Transferred to Qsuezaltenango and increased by 110 lines.
EMD - Step by step exchanges - Siemens.
XB - Crossbar exchanges.
M.OB - Mobile XN ,achanges
July 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELEOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Construction Program for New Long-distance Systems
New channel
Year of               Channel           installation
Microwave               Commissioning           Capacity           or extension
Chimaltenango - Antigua          1977                  300                  33
Barberena/Cuilapa                1977                                        24
Coban- El Durazno                1976                  300                  24
Antigua Guatemala                1976                                       12
Amatitlan                        1976                                       48
Jalapa_ El Durasno               1976                  300                  33
San Marcos                       1976                                         3
Panajachel                       1976                                        21
El Progreso                      1977                  300                   36
Quezaltenango                    1976                                      105
Puerto Barrios                   1976                                        20
VH/UHF
Villa Canales - Guatemala        1977                   60                   48
Santa Lucia Cotz - La Selva      1977                   60                  48
Puerto San Jose - Escuintla      1977                    24                  24
Totonicapan                      1976                                       12
Quiche                           1977                                       18
Malacatan_ Tecun Uman            1977                   60                   36
Saloma                           1977                                         6
Rio Hondo                        1976                                        12
Livingston                       1976                                        18
Champerico                       1976                                        21
Tecun Uman- Coatepeque           1977                   60                   36
Cable Lines
Villa Nueva - Guatemala          1975                                        50 pairs
San Juan- Sacatepequez-Guatemalal976                                         50 pairs
San Lucas                        1976                                        48
JulJy 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF SEOOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Important Features of the Law Establishing GUATEL
General Provisions
The Law that established and regulates Empresa Guatemalteca de
Telecomunicaciones (GUATEL) was enacted April 14, 1971. The new entity is
owned by the Government and is autonomous, with juridical personality and
full power to acquire and dispose of assets and to contract obligations.
Guatel is responsible for providing all telecommunication services in
Guatemala; the Government in turn guarantees the operating autonomy neces-
sary for Guatel to carry out its tasks, esp6cially those concerned with
internal organization, personnel administration and setting up the tariff
system.
Organization
The Board of Directors of Guatel consists of five members: the
Minister of Communications and Public Works, who serves as chairman; the
Minister of the Interior; the Minister of Foreign Affairs; and two persons
appointed by the President of the Republic. The management consists of a
general manager and up to two deputy managers, all of whom are appointed by
the Board. They attend the Board meetings as advisers without voting rights.
The Board of Directors establishes the functions and regulates the
administrative organization of Gukatel and is responsible for the overall
planning, management and coordination of its activities. The Board's
principal duties are to (a) approve the annual report, balance sheets and
profit-and-loss accounts; (b) approve tariffs submitted to it by the manage-
ment; (c) approve plans for raising domestic and foreign loans; (d) approve
standards for telecommunication services.
As Guatel's chief executive, the general manager directs all of
its technical and administrative activities. His main duties are to (a)
ensure that the Guatel Law is properly implemented; (b) represent the
entity legally; (c) appoint and dismiss personnel whose appointment is not
the responsibility of the Board of Directors; and (d) submit for the Board's
consideration draft programs and reports on Guatel's yearly operations.
Accounting and Financial System
1.    Guatel will establish an accounting system suitable for its require-
ments and apply separate cost accounting for each telecommunication
service. In the first quarter of each year, a balance sheet and profit-
and-loss account for the preceding year's operations will be prepared
and published.
2.    The financial year corresponds to the calendar year.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2 pages
3.   All obligations legally contracted by Guatel are guaranteed by the
Government.
4.   Guatel is exempt from all taxes and duties.
5.   Net profits3l are to be allocated each year as follows: 45% to the
Government, 0% to Guatel, 5% to a contingency reserve, 5% to a
severance pay, pension and retirment reserve fund, ard 5% for dis-
tribution among the staff in accordance with a special regulation.
6. All accounts of governmental agencies not paid when due are to be
deducted from the Government's percentage of the profits, subject to
prior authorization of the Contraloria General de la Naci6n.
Audit and Control
The Board of Directors will appoint an internal auditor, to be respon-
sible for the internal inspection, audit and control of Guatel's financial and
accounting operations.
Guatel's accounts are subject to inspection and control of disbursements
by the Contraloria de Cuentas for matters falling within its purview.
The Board of Directors may order special audits whenever they are
deemed desirable.
March 1975
J/  Congressional decrees authorizing or ratifying Guatel's borrowings provide
for the establishment of a reserve to service each debt (principal,interest
and other financial charges). Annual allocations to these reserves are made
against the profit and loss account, before arriving at net (distributable)
profit.



GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
ORGANIZATION CHART
AUDlITOR
II
GENERAL       |
WNAEMGATM
ADVISERS
N-    -  t   _                                 |      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUBLIC
DEPARTMENTNS t    RELATIONS
ADMINISTRATIVE  PLANNING AND DESIGN                          ~~~~~CONSTRUCTION                     OPERATION AND                                        l.IC.
Dr                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND SUPERV.               MAINTENANCE
PERSONNEl,                  ECON. STUDY              SWVITCHING                   SVWITCHING                  LONG IST~5ANCE            ASINENTS
ORGANIZAiUN                 DEMAND STUDY             TRANSMISSION                 TRANSMISSION                SUBSCRIBERS               SWITCHING
AND METHODS                 PLANNING                  OUT-SIDE PLANT              NETWODRKS                   AGENCIES                  TRAFEIC MEASURE
MEDIC'AL                    TRAINING                 CIVIL VVORKS                 CIVIL WORKS                 DIRECTORY                 NETVVORKDAAPOESN
UPROCrUREMENTS                                        E     ELECTROMECH. VI             ELECTROMECH. W.                                        TRANSMISSION
LIBRARY                                                                                               Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UALITY CONTROL  TREASURY  PROGRAMMING
0
TRAINING                                                                                                                                CIVIL WORKS CRR AACCOUNT                            CONTROL
ELECTROMECH. W             SBODKKEEPING
PRIVATE PLANTS                                       FIC M EANNING
INV. CONTROL
WErId 13-k-9P



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
SECOND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Guatel's Second Development Plan (1975-1981) includes the following:
a.   installation of 156,000 additional exchange lines,together with
associated expansion of cable network, distribution facilities
and buildings to permit connection of an additional 122,000 DEL's
reflecting a rate of growth in DEL's of around 21% per annum;
b.   expansion of long-distance services by 1,092 trunk circuits,
expansion of trunk exchanges providing additional capacity of
about l1,000 trunk circuits;
c.   expansion of the rural telephone system to provide coverage of
150 additional localities;
d.   extension of the telex services to provide additional capacity
for 500 lines to permit connection of an additional 400 telex
subscribers; and
e.   expansion of training facilities, employment of instructors for
training and technical consultants.
The cost of the expansion under the Second Development Plan is
estimated at US$78 million with a foreign exchange component of US$56.6
million.
October 1974



APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELE00O4JIMICATIONS PROJECT . GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECSnNICACIONES (CUATEL)
ESTIMiTED COST OF PRO.JECT
(tho o.Md. of Qoetzalen)
1--.9741                           1975                         1976                              1977                            17                                                        9517
Local  Fornign  Totl         Loonl  Foreign   Totni        Lanai  Foreign   Tot l           local   Forig    Total          Loca1   Foe        Totnl         tonal Foreign  Total             l975oreig         Total
1.   LAt3D ANCS 8SIILfL9n3
1.1   Metropolitan Area                                                         233      -         233         485       -        485           641      -         641           346      -        346                                    1,705                   1,705
1.2   Interior                                                                  200                200                                          4 fl
T.t.1 I                                                                   --~~~~~~20 -  0                3            41       -         0            200       -       200                                     __131
Total 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           733                             ,          1 -, 1T25 -7-        W-           -5M 
2.   LOCAl. TELEPROINE SYSTEM
2.Sitin           Metropo'lita  Ara101    1,653    1,754                                                        265    2,327    2,592            399    2,631    3,030           248    1,364   1,612                  222      222       1,013        8,197      9,210
Interior                           20    187    207             65      627       692          73       767      840            64      430       494            -        47       47                                      222 2, 058            2,280
Sob-total 2.1                    20    187    207            166    2,280    2,446          338    3,094    3,432            463    3,061    3,524           248    1,411   0,659                   222     222        1,235       10 ,255    11 490
2.2 loo  Networka & Oisbrliber'n Pilt:
Metropolitan Ar-e                                              262      498       760       1,649    2,048    3,697          1,668    3,472    5,140            403    1,612   2,015           62    248      310        4,044        7,888    12,922
Interior                                                       359      323      682          2,04      211      715            50      200       251             6       23       29                                      619        1,058        716
Remote loonti-na                                                54      304       358          43       243      286            11        61       72                                                                      108                     7177
Sobb-total 2.2                   20      7                                    180         134                                                  4 63          4o9    1 635   2044             62    248      310         771         9.5441 4.31
1.1~~~~~~~~~~1 2~~~5,0 2458147980,13                                                                              2,092    0,9       48              5       48       ,0            9       7-0    532        14         1798         33
3.   LON0 OIITAYCE SYSTEMS
3.1 L. L  Oniteilng                                                             191    1,577    1,768          213    1,334    1,547            191    1,102    1,292             43      238      281                                      638        4,250      4,888
3.2 I,. 0). 7r0404i-in   MW noon                                                 19       57        76         105       314      419            48       143      191            19       5        76                                      638        4,501      4,88
UHb/IS  i1k.                                         137       50       67           93      277       370            42      126       168           17        50      67                                       169          503        672
Yablleliok.                                            4        12       o6           21       64        85             9       29        34                      2  1    6                                        3           117       155
3.3 noon Tnlolcpo,oy                                                              4      490       5i           43       30       427            11       96       107                                                                      10 18        117~    196
Total 3                                                                                   428 26 6     47                                 I 5   ; T  6,430 1,796        966357   .                                                1,4                    7,
4.   TRLEs SYSTEM                                                                 70      o5        755                                                                                                                                       70          R88        753
5.   TRAININ3, CONSULTA3TS
5.1 Trn:ning                                                                             125       125         115       125      240            92       125      217           15B      125      283           35              35         400          500        900
5.2 Ynnosltn,t                                                                           125     1_25          -50       125       175           50       125      075            50      125      175          150            150          300          50800
Total 5                                                                          250      250          16        250                   175 142   250       392                                        7                            '7
PROJECT BASE COST                               20    187    207          1,629    6,516    8,145        3,870    8,519   12,389          3,677    8,540   12,217          1,494    3,653   5,147           247    470     717       10,937       27,885    38,822
6.   coNTINGENciEs
6.1 Ficyoloal                                                                    67      113       180          190      280       470          173       373      546            41       163     204            6     25       31         477          954      1,431
6.2 Price  ncreae_                                                              154      757       911          592    1,165    1,757           622    1,357    1,979            208      664      872            5     87       92       1I8         4,  
Foto16            -      -      -             221      870    1,091          782    1,445~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~ 2,227  795    1,730    2525  24  77   1,076          11    112      13        .43           i7I         74
TOTAL PROJECT TOST                               20    187    207         1,850    7,386    9,236        4,652    9,964   14,616          4,472   10,270   14,742          1,743    4,480o   6,723          258    582      840      12,995       32,869    45,864
J.ly 1974



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL CF SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TE$COMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Cumulative Disbursement
at end of semester
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester                   (US$  ooo's)
1975/1976
December 31, 1975                                        4, 800
June 30, 1976                                            8;,200
1976/1977
December 31, 1976                                       12,400
June 30, 1977                                           16,300
1977/1978
December 31, 1977                                       21,200
June 30, 1978                                           23,000
1978A979
December 31, 1978                                       25,400
June 30, 1979                                           25,700
1979/1980
December 31, 197-9                                      26,000
October 1974



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TRLECOMMUNICATICIS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
FMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOHNEICACIClES (GUATEL)
Telecommunications Demand in Guatemala
Local Telephone Service
1.        Guatemala has,  after Honduras, the lowest telephone density among
the Central American countries, i.e.: 0.77 telephone per 100 inhabitants.
Growth in connected subscribers (DEL's) has averaged around 7% per year from
the initiation of the automatic telephone system in 1964 to December 1973.
2.        At present, there is an incomplete waiting list of some 26,100
applicants (in Guatemala City only) but the total demand, which consists of
existing DEL's and waiting applicants(both registered and non-registered),
according to GUATEL's estimations is around lOC,000. Such a high accumulated
demand is a result of the delay in initiating and executing the ongoing projects,
resulting in a very limited increase of new subscribers.
3.        Past and forecast subscriber growth and automatic exchange capacity are
shown below:
Capacity          DEL          Waiting
Year           Lines           Lines     Applications        Demand
1964          23,800          21,523
1965          39,000          24,306
1966          39s000          26,840
1967          39,000          30,786
1968          4OO00          34h462
1969          42,090          36,739
1970          42,890          37,871
1971          43,130          39,874
1972          43,130          39s837
1973         143,130          40,339          59,661 1/      100,000
19714         52,130          46,289          63,711         110,000
1975          52,130          49,239          71,761         121,000
1976          99,1140         76,099         56,901          133,000
1977         127,1140        103,333          46,667         146,000
1978         164,1140        128,783          32,217         161,000
1979         188,140         153,991          23,009         177,000
1980         216,350         176,616          18,384         195,000
1981         232,350         188,616          25,384         2114,000
1/ It is assumed that waiting applications correspond to unsatisfied demand.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3 pages
4.        GUATEL's  demand forecast is based on population growth
studies, economic strength of the households in Guatemala City and in the
provincesfor the residential demand and on projections of commercial, in-
dustrial, and urban growth for the non-residential subscriber demand. GUATEL's
projections of annual demand growth averages around 10% per annum for the next
8 years which is in line with past growth and with the experience in other
developing countries. This is reasonable. However, to keep pace with this
demand, to eliminate the high accumulated demand and avoid any such accumulation
in the future, GUATEL has projected a relatively high growth rate in DEL's;
around 21% per annum for the next 8 years. Even  with a  crash installation
programj in She_pro3ect~zidbad TEL _ .aS net the current unfilled
demand in some exchange areas during the project period. The current
unifilled and future demands up to 1981 would be met in GUATEL's Phase II
(1978-1981) project of the Second Development Plan.
5.        GUATEL's demand forecast is reasonable and any error may be on the
low side., since in the past, the supply of telephones has consistently lagged
behind demand and the forecast does not take latent demand into account.
GUATEL has not proposed a larger project due to financial and manpower con-
straints, the limitation being the required installation in average of about
2,000 new connections per month for about two years in Guatemala City. This
objective is high, although attainable and realistic.
1/ Rate of growth in DEL in the project period will average 28%. Although on
the high side, this is considered possible due to the advance stage of cable
network installation in Guatemala City under the first project and the other
advanced preparatory works in giving connections which will enable rapid
connections when switching equipment becomes available.



GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
TELEPHONE GROWTH, 1966-1981
DECEMBER 31 OF EACH YEAR
700
600                               .    .
500                                                                    _
400
300                                                                                             ____
200                                                                                                                                                     .   ._ ;
DEMAND FORECAST 10%
z 1                                                                                                                                   -                 LINES CONN>ECTED (DEL'S)
F 100                                            __ _    _.____               ___.D___ _                      .____
90                                            ___-INSTALLED EXCHANGE~
70                             _           ___-A _            _T_ _ _._                                _____                                                          __.
50                                                                                                       _     __            __ 5             _  __.  ____
30 L<  f)fH  
20                                          ACTUAL                                                                               POrTD0 
FItTSECONDDEVELOPMENT PLAN D O                                             (D P
P FHASEI - THE PROJECT              _PHASElIt                         OO
0                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIFRST DE VELO PMENT PL X         
1965       66        67        68        69        70        71        72         73        74        75        76         77        78        79        80       1981       m
Semi Logarithmic Scale
Word Bank-9032(R)   02



Annex 11
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONZS (GUATEL)
Return on Project Investment
1.        The cost and benefit streams for the proposed investment are given
below and cover a Deriod of 20 years, the assumed life of the project.
Construction costs are based on current equipment prices which are not
expected to vary significantly beyond the amount secured by contingency
allowances. Construction cost does not include interest during construction
or any taxes. Income and exoenditures statements have been analyzed to
extract cost and revenues attributable to the project.
In thousands of quetzales
Construction   Operating   Attributable
Year          Costs        Costs         Revenue       Costs    Benefits
1975          9,4h3          -              -          9,443        -
1976         14,616          717          1,879       13,454        -
1977         14,742       2,508          6,907       10,343        -
1978          6,223        4,775         11,538         -            540
1979            840        6,560         16,997         -          9,597
1980-87        -           7,000         15,500         -          8,500
1988            700        7,000         15,500         -          7,800
1989-.92       -           7,000         15,500         -          8,500
2         EThe rate of return on the project - defined as the discount rate
4ihlcZ equalizes the stream of expected revenues attributable to the project
with the capital and operating cost - is 17.55%.
3.        If construction costs were increased by 15%, the rate of return
would be 13.75%. If the attributable revenues were decreased by 25%, the
rate of return would be 13.15%. If construction and operating cost were
increased by 10% and revenues attributable to the project decreased by 10%,
the rate of return would be 10 .40%.
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMAlTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Actual and Forecast Income and Surplus Statements, 1972-79
(in thousands of Quetzales)
A C T U A L                                               F O R E C A S T
1972         1973              1974          1975         1976          1977         1978          1979
Operating revenues                                            6,916        8,455             10,448       11,173        14,503       19,073       23,347        27,075
Operating expenses:
Personnel-related costs                                    2,346         2,350             3,603         3,710        4,097         5,089        6,364         7,976
Other administrative and general expense                      684        1,063             1,306         1,528        2,346         3,068        3,850         4,451
Depreciation                                               1 145         1 195             1,031         1,503        1 766         2 371        2 794         4 293
Total operating expenses                4,175                                                         6i4  5         9       F o_                   10,720 
Net operating income                                          2,741        3,847              4,508        4,432         6,294        8,545        10,339       10,355
Less interest and other charges on debt                        144           381               699         1,620        2,671         3,658        4,518         5,071
Net income subject to statutory appropriation                 2,597        3,466             3,809         2,812        3,623         4,887         5,821        5,284
Statutory appropriation:
Debt service reserve                                          720          483               586         1,507        1,862         2,145        3,043         2,316
Severance and pension reserve                                 94           149               161            65           88           137          139           148
Employees' participation                                       94          149               161            65           88           137          139           148
Government's participation                                    844        1,342             1,450           587          792         1,234        1,250         1,336
Surplus                                                      845         1,343             1,451           588          793         1,234        1,250         1,336
Total statutory appropriation                           2,597         3,466             3,809         2,812                                   5,821 _82       __
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS
At beginning of period                                     10,909       12,474            14,589        17,010       19,105        21,760       25,139        29,432
Debt service reserve                                          720          483                970        1,50(        1,862         2,145        3,043         2,316
Surplus during period                                         845        1,342             1,451           588          793         1,234        1,250         1,336
Donations, transfers, etc.                                      -          290                  -            -            -             -             -            -
Surplus end of period                                    12,474                          17,010        19,105       21,760 25,139              29,432        33,004
* For a breakdown of operating revenues by type of service see Exhibit 1 at the end of Annex 16 entitled Actual and Forecast Revenues, 1972-79.
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOM"NICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST BALANCE SHEETS, 1972-79
(in thousands of Quetzales)
A C T U A L                                              F O R E C A S T
1972         19 73             1974          1975          1976         1977          1978         1979
ASSETS
Utility plant in service                                   13,080       15,954             25,646       30,583        46,641       57,518        92,581       96,372
Accumulated depreciation                                  ( 1,807)     (      2,926)      ( 3 957)     ( 5,460)      ( 7 226)     (9,597)       (12,391)      (16,684)
Net utility plant in service                             11,273        21,9 5,123                                             421 8,190   79 688
Construction work in progress                               2 944        5,012              5,512       16 310        19,754       29 663        12,826       21,433
Total net fixed assets                                 i4                                27,201   41,t4l            59,169                                   Z101,121
Deferred and other assets - net                               271          419                750        1,000         1,420        1,850         2,420         3,050
Current assets:
Cash and equivalent                                         193        1,486                761        1,303           684        1,306         1,537        3,535
Accounts receivable                                       1,199        1,569              1,815        1,974         2,287        2,831         3,527         4,169
Other current assets                                      1,153        1 661              2 282        2 529         2 832        3 588         5,166         5,819
Total current assets                                   2,545        -__!858                                        5,80         7,725        10,230       13,523
Total Assets                                        17,033        23,175             32,809       48,239        66,392       87,159       105,666      117,694
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital and surplus                                        12,474       14,589             17,010       19,105        21,760       25,139        29,432       33,084
Subscribers capital contributions                                     -               -                    620         3,755         7,879       11,778        14,837
Long-term debt                                              2,602        5,627             12,416       25,800        37, 717      50,135        60,020       64,760
Less:  current portion                                     ( 646)       ( 410)            (   409)      (759)         (l675)        (2 145)      (3.043)       (2 316)
Sub-total                                                 i,g5         5,217             12, OO7      25,8041       36,042        157, 990     56,977
Deferred liabilities                                          387          511                672          737           825           962        1,123         1,317
Current liabilities:
Current portion of long-term debt                           646          410                409           759        1, 675       2,145         3,043         2,316
Employees' participation                                     94          149                161           65            88           137          139           148
Government's participation                                  844        1,342              1,450          587           792         1,234        1,250         1,336
Other current liabilities                                   632          957              1 100        1 205         1,455         1 673        1,924         2 212
Total current liabilities                               2,216        2,858              3             '            4,010          ,           6,356 
Total Liabilities and Capital                       17,033        23,175             ?2,848.239                 6            87,159       105,666      117,694
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
SELECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1973-79
Actual                                     F O R E C A S T
Units         1973             1974         1975        1976         1977        1978         1979
Return on net plant
Average net utility plant in service                        Q 000's        12,151           17,359      23,406       32,269      43,688       64,056       79,939
Net income 1/                                               Q 000's         2,207            2,736       3,715        5,236        6,947       8,811        8,723
Rate of return - percent                                    percent          18.2             18.8        15.9         16.2        15.9         13.8         10.9
Cash generation vs.  total net fixed assets
Total net fixed assets                                        Q 000's        16,128           22,620      34,317       50,301      68,376       85,300       97,069
Cash generation 3/                                          Q OOO's         2,352           2,268        1,923        5,459       7,120        6,427        6,413
Cash generation vs. total net fixed assets                  percent          14.6             10.0         5.6         10.9        10.4          7.5          6.6
Debt
Long term debt vs. net utility plant                        percent          31.1             51.2        64.5         64.1        64.6         64.5         64.o
Debt service vs. internal cash generation                    times            6.4              5.0         2.3          1.9          2.0         2.0          1.8
Liquidity
Current assets vs. current liabilities                      to 1.0            1.7              1.7         2.0          1.4         1.5          1.6          2.2
Receivables
Trade receivables vs. annual revenues                       months            2.2              1.7         2.1          1.9          1.8         1.8          1.8
Depreciation
Depreciation vs. average utility plant in service           percent           8.2              5.0         5.3          4.6          4.6         3.7          4.5
Personnel                                                                                           v
Employees vs. telephones in service (thousands)             number             36               34          28           23           20          20           20
Gross revenues, less operating expenses and the amounts referred to in subparagraphs b, d, (government and employees participations)and e,(allocations              L
to severance and pension reserves) of Article 23 of Decree Law 14-7 of April 13, 1971. Interest and other charges on debt are excluded from this cal-
culation.
/ Utility plant in service less accumulated depreciation plus construction work in progress, adjusted to reflect part of year during which new major assets
are in service.
Net operating income plus depreciation, and subscribers capital contributions, less debt service (principal repayments plus interest and other charges on
debt), government and employees partieipation and increpses in working capital other than caoh.
Net operating income plus depreciation, less government and employees participations and allocations to severance and pension reserves.
5  As of December 31.  Figure at time of appraisal was 36.
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF TBE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMAIA
EMPRESA GUATEMA1TECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
FORECAST SOURCES AMD APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS. 1974-79
(in thousands of Qaetzales)
Total
1974         1975         1976          1977         1978          1975-78       1979
SOURCES
Internal cash generations
Net operating income                                              4,508         4,432        6,294         8,455       10,339         29,520       10,355
Depreciation                                                     1i031          1,503        1 766         2 371        2,794          8 434        4 293
Gross cash generation                                                         5,935                 8                  060    5  13,133  37 954
Less debt service                                                  (1,109)       (2,029)      (3,430)       (5,333)      (6,663)       (17,365)      (8,114)
Less participations.government and  employees                      (1,461)       (1,611)      ( 652)        ( 880)       (1,371)        (4,514)      (1,389)
Plus subscribers' capital contributions                                 _           620        3,135         4 124        3899          11 778        3059
Net cash generation                                               2,969         2,915        7,113            7         8,998           t
Borrowings:
First Development Plan (ongoing project)
IBND 792-GU                                                       6,715         3,200        1,810         1,450          150          6,610            -
CABEI 1-233-GU-0                                                     70             -            -             -             -             -            -
CABEI 1-238-GU-1                                                    264           155            -             _            _            155            -
CABEI                                                               150           300          150             -            -            450            -
Bonds                                                                 -         3,500        1500              -             -         5,000            -
Sub-total                                                       7,199        7,155         36            1,0            150         12,215            -
Second Development Plan - Phase I (the project)
IBRD (proposed)                                                       -        4,783         7,646        8,788         4,200         25,417          583
CABEI                                                                 -         1,575          450           135            -          3,160            -
CABEI                                                                 -           280        1,120         1,120          280          2,800            _
Sub-total                                                          -_8 6,638               9,1          10,043        4,480         30,377          583
Second Development Plan - Phase II (future project)
Unidentified (foreign exchange)                                         -             -            -         2,6oo        7,400         10,000        7,400
Total borrowings                                                  7,199        13,793       12,72,030                                 52592         7,983
Total Sources of Funds                                         10,168        16,708       19,789        22,920       21,028         80.445       16,187
APPLICATIONS
Construction program:
First Development Plan (ongoing project)                          9,585         5,950        4,174         1,520           241        11,885
Second Development Plan-Phase I (the project)                       207         9,236       14,616        14,742        6,223         44,817          840
Second Development Plan-Phase II (future project)                     -             -            -         3,833       11 119         14,952       11,119
Total construction program                                      9,792         15,86       18790         20,095                      71,654       11,959
Other investments                                                     400           549          712           691           643         2 595          439
Total additions to plant                                       10,192        15,735       19,502        20,786       18,226           4          12,398
Working capital
Cash or equivalent - increase/@ecrease)                             (725)         542          (619)        C622           231            776       1,998
Other than cash - net                                               701           431          906         1,512         2 571         5,420        1,791
Total working capital - net                                     Z;)             973          (27)        2,134        2,802           6 196       3,789
Total Applications of Funds                                  10.168        16,708       19,789        22,920       21,028         go 445       16,187
Cash at beginning of period                                            1,486          761         1,303           684        1,306            761       1,537
Cash at end of period                                                    761        1,303           684        1,306         1,537          1,537        3,535
March 1975



ANNEX 1 6
Page 1 of 5 pages
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
SUMMARY OF, XND NOTES ON, FORECAST ASSUMPTIONS
1.        Sales and Operating Revenues. Guatelts forecast of telephone revenues
is based on the exchange  capacity and subscriber growth discussed in Annex 10,
and on the continued application of (a) its recently increased tariffs, Annex2,
and (b) limiting the proportion of connection fees credited to income to 25%
for subscribers in Guatemala City and 20% for subscribers in the provinces (para-
graph 6.07). The breakdown of operating revenues by type of service is given
on Exhibit 1 of this Annex.
2.        Urban and Interurban Telephone Revenues.  Guatel assumes that the
average rental (for subscriber) would drop gradually from Q55.80 in 1973 to
Q43.80 in 1979. Underlying this assumption is Guatel's expectation that the
proportion of subscribers in the residential category will increase throughout
the period. This assumption is conservative since the tariff charged to residen-
tial subscriberg(Q3/month) is substantially lower than that applicable to businesses
(Q8/month). In practice, a much larger proportion of connections is likely to be
taken up by business users--which would result in increased revenues--and a size-
able portion of subscribers under the residential tariff will actually be businesses.
On the other hand, Guatel estimates that average revenues per subscriber from
excess calls and interurban traffic would increase, reflecting (a) the limitation
of the 400 free pulses per month to local calls exclusively when the installation
of toll-ticketing equipment would permit differentiation in the automatic network
between local and interurban calls; and (b) the recent 25% reduction in pulse
duration, from 180 to 135 seconds. Revenues from other services (extensions, PBX
equipment, directory, etc.)  are forecast to increase by 10% per year.  Overall,
Guatel estimates that the drop in rentals would be offset by the gains in excess
calls, long-distance and other service revenues, with the result that the present
average revenue per subscriber from domestic telephone services of Q90 per year
would be maintained throughout the forecast period.
3.        Regional and International Telephone Revenues.  With the assistance of
COMTELCA and an ITU expert, Guatel has estimated international telephone traffic
on a country-by-country basis, and has calculated the corresponding revenues
taking into account average duration of calls, distribution between full and
reduced rate calls and between station-to-station and person-to-person calls. The
results of this estimate, which implies an average annual growth in revenues of
about 19%, are shown at the bottom of Exhibit 1 of this Annex.
4.        Regional and International Telegraph Revenues. Guatel estimates that
owing to the increasing traffic through its regional and international telephone
and telex services, revenues from its telegraph services would decline by about
10% per year beginning in 1975.
5.        Telex Revenues. Based on historical trends and its present tariff, Guatel
estimates that average revenues per subscriber from call charges of the
new installations would gradually increase from Q2,200 the first year to
a saturation level of  Q3,900  in the fifth year.   This compares with average



Page 2 of 5 pages
revenue of Q3,565 in 1973. Revenue saturation in the fifth year ia a prudext
assumption, particularly in view of the large azd rapid increase in installations
projected (from 260 lines in 1974 to 1,320 lines in 1979).
6.       Other bevenes. This category inclides revenues from such services
as channl leases, transit traffic, broadcast transmissions, etc. and income
from temporary investment of surplus cash. Guatel estimates that revenues
from these services will increase at the rate of 200/o per year.
Oberatina Expenses
7.     PersonnAl Related Costs.  Taking into account personnel needed at new
or expanded installations and at headquarters to handle the expanding utility,
Guatel forecasts the number of employees and related costa as follows:
Average .           Total           Employees
Number of Elployees    Earningai/          Cost             per 1000
Near   Year end    Average   (LuetzAkesl   (-       ,    Ots) )     telephones
1973   1,627        1,383       1,699                2,350             36
1974   1,760        1,694       2,127                3,603             34
1975   1,564        1,662       2,232                3,710             28
1976   1,931        1,748       2,344                4,097             23
1977   2,285       2,108        2,4i4                5,089             20
1978   2,838        23559       2,487                6,364             20
1979   3,388       3,113        2,562                7,976             20
Reduction in the number of employees in 1975 reflects Guatel's policy to
shift connection related work from permanent to contracted labor as much as
practicable.  Under y     average base salaries are assumed to increase 50/0
in 1975 and 1976, and 3 /0 per year thereafter. Guatel estimates that the
larger initial increases are necessary to bring its employees' salaries in
line with those for comparable jobs prevailing in the country. Despite the
substantial increase in the number of employees from 1975 onwards (1160/o by
1979), the ratio of employees per 1,000 telephones is expected to drop to a
more reasonable level by 1976-77, when the impact of the ongoing and proposed
expansion takes place.
8.       Other Admnistrative and General Expenses.  Guatel bases its pro-
jections on historical trends of individual accounts and on relationships of
selected accounts to reference items, such as number of subscribers.  Guatel
also makes allowances for inflation and checks the resulting relationship
between these costs and operating revenues. Thease costs rise from the present
130/o of operating revenues to an average of 17r/ in 1976-79, reflecting
increased costs during the heavy connection period.
9.       Depreciation.  Guatel will continue to depreciate existing facilities
at rates in effect through 1973. New facilities will be depreciated at sub-
stantially lower--and more realistic--recently adopted rates. Depreciation
rates for the main categories are as follows:
Includes social benefits.
7 As of December 31. Figure at time of appraisal was 36.



ANNEX l6
Page 3 of ) pages
Annual Rate - 0/,
Existing     New
TyDe of Asset                                Assets        Assets
Buildings                                           5b           2°/o-
Other constrmetion                                  54o
Switching equipment and cables                      1014
Transmiasion equipment                              10/0             o-
Furniture and office equipment                      15°/o        10 /0o
The ratio of the total annual depreciation charge to the corresponding
average utility plant in service drops gradually from 8.3%/0 (12 years) in
1973 to 4.5%t (22 years) in 1979,
Interest sad Commitment Fees
10.      Interest and commitaent fees accrued each year (Exhibit 3 of this
Annex) are charged in full against the corresponding year's profit and loss
account. That is, no capitalization of financial charges during construction
is assumed.
COdfict1on Fees
11.      Guatel estimates revenues from installation fees based on the planned
number of new subscriber lines, taking into account their distribution between
Guatemala City and the provinces, and whether they will be paid for on a cash
or an installment basis. Guatel assumes that, as in the past, one-fourth of
the new telephone subscribers will elect to pay the fee on a cash basis and
three-fourths through a 10-month installment scheme, which involves financing
and handling charges. All telex fees are assumed to be paid on a cash basis.
Installation fees are as shown in Annex 2.
12.      In accordance with a Ebard Resolution adopted on December 27, 19714, 25% of
the connection fees of subscribers in Guatemala City and 20% of subscribers in the
provinces are treated as current income and, hence, subject to statutory appropria-
tion Isee paragraph 13, below), and the remainder are considered subscribers' capital
contributions.
Statutory Apropriations
13.      As provided for in Guatel's charter or in existing and proposed legislation
(paragraph 6. 19(, the fremst assumes that each year's net earnings will be
charged with an amount equal to Guatel's debt amortization payments the
following year (i.e., current portion of long-term debt), and that the balance
will be distributed as follows:
Severance and pension reserve           5%
Employees' participation                   0
Government's participation             43/6
Surplus (incl. 50!0 for contLngences ) 45o
Balance Sheets
14.      UtilitY Plant and Work in Progress. Annual mounts reflect the
construction/investment plan (Annex 8) and the estimated time of completion
of the main items in the expansion program.



ANNR 16
Page 4 of 5 pages
15.      Deferred and Other Assets.  Includes prepaid expenses and certain
expenditures related to the CCKTELCA (regional) network. Prepaid expenses
are assumed to increase proportionally to increases in related operating
expenses, and the deferred expenditures are assumed to vary in relation to
expenditures in the regional network program. Thelatter are amortized over
a 5-year period and the amounts shown are net of the amortization.
16.      Aecounts Receivable.  The level of accounts receivable has been
forecast as a function of sales, and a moderate improvement in biUling/
collections is assumed beginning in 1976. Thus, the present (1973) level
of 2.3 months' billing which is maintained through 1975 drops to 1.9 in 1976
and is assumed to be 1.8 for the remainder of the forecast period.
17.      Other Current Assets.  Consit mainly of inventories and materials
and equipment in transit.  The inventory level is assumed to remain at 5o
of plant in service, and the amount for materials and equipment in transit
varies proportionately to the equipment purchase program.
18.      Lona-Tera Debt.  EBreakdowns of Guatel's long-term debt and debt
service are shown in Exhibits 2 and 3 of this Annex. In addition to draw-
downs of existing loans and the proposed Bank loan, the forecast assumes
new borrowings as follows:
First Development Plan (ongoinM proJect)
CABEI - Amount: US$600,000
Interest:  80/%
Commitment fee: 10/0
Term: 10 1/2 years, including 2 1/2 years' grace.
This supplemental loan is to finance additional capital
expenditures in the C(NTELCA (regional) network. This loan was signed
on September 12, 1974.
Bonds - Amount: Q5.0 million
Interest: 80/o
Amortization period: 15 years
These bonds are expected to be placed in 1975 (Q3.5 million)
and 1976 (1.5 million). The proceeds are to be used to help
finance the local currency expenditures of the ongoing project.
The Banco de Guatemala will act as financial agent.
Second Development Plan - Phase I (the project)
CLBEI - Amount: US$2.16 million
Interest:  8o%
Commitment fee: 0.750/O
Term: 12 years, including 2 years' grace.



AXNE 16
Page 5 of 5 pages
This loan is to finance trunk switching equipment for the
interurban network under the COMTELCA program, as well as
related technical assistance and training expenditures. This
loan was signed on November 6, 19?4.
CABEI - Amount: US$2.8 million
Interes:  8%
Commitment fee: 1%
Term: 12 years, including 3 yearst grace.
This loan is to finance switching equipment. It is part of an
overall investment program of COMTELCA for the expansion of the
regional microwave network, in whieh the five Central American
telecommunications companies participate.  The package project is
in advanced stages of negotiation.
19.        Direct Equipment Purchase.  Guatel will purchase direct from the
supplier exchange equipment for 6,000 lines in the provinces. The equipment
is estimated to cost Us$1.86 million, including contingencies (paragraph 4.06).
Payment terms have been assumed to be 20% down payment, 30% against the bill
of lading (1975) and the remainder in 1976 (40%) and 1977 (10%).



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECONM4UNTCATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST REVENUES, 1972-79
(in thousands of Quetzales)
Actual                                             Forecast
19f72       1973          1974         1975         1976        1977         1978-        1979
OPERATING REVENUES (in thousands of Quetzales)       1999
Telephone:
Connection fees                                    88          192           892          207        1,o45       1,375        1,300       1,020
Rentals                                          2,224       2,238          2,370       2,543        3.125       4,il0        5,202        6,003
Local and inter-urban service
Call and long-distance charges                  810        1,037          1,441       1,512        2,006       3,320        4,577        5,606
Other services (extensions, PBX equipment,
directory, etc.                                 281          138            217         239          262         288          317          349
International service - net                     2,038        2 880         3 184        3,98         4,660       5,677        6 864       8,236
Total telephone revenues                      t;'                  6 ,485 8            104              11, 0 9 8                   14,021,214
Telegraph
Regional and international - net                   780         840            860         817          776          737         700          665
Telex
Rentals                                            107         130            150         210          318          432         537          627
Call and long-distance charges                     565         770            934       1,198        1,782       2 456        3 151        3,765
Total telex revenues                             672         90           1,084       1,408        2,100        2,88        3,688        4,392
Other revenues (channel leases, transit,
broadcast transmissions)                              23         230            400          460         529          608         699          804
Total operating revenues                          l91 1                                 1,173       14,503       1,073       2147         27,075
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS
Average number of subscribers (units):
Telephone                                       39,856      40,o08         43,364      48,560       62,720      89,766      115,983      137,153
Telex                                              178         216            250          350         530          720         895        1,045
Monthly rates (Quetzales):
Telephone
Residential                                        3           3              3            3           3            3           3            3
Non-residential                                  3-8*        3-8*             8           8            8            8           8            8
Public  booths (per call unit)                 0.05         0.05           0.05        0.05         0.05         0.05        0.05         0.05
*  Prior to unification on January 1, 1974, there were three nun-residential categories, as follows:  conmercial (Q8/month); professional
(Q6/month); and official (Q.3/month).
Polses
Number of free pulses (units)                  400/600     400/600          4oo         400          4oo          400         400          400
Duration (seconds)                               180         180            135         135          135          135         135          135
International telephone service
Country                                                                                       Total Revenues - Net
Costa Rica                                   133          *              340         432          525         626          758          905
El Salvador                                   211                        495         651          786          943       1,136        1,361
Honduras                                       77                       173          246          295          356         428          508
Nicaragua                                      71                        202         284          347          413         494          594
Panama                                        45                          94         152          187         222          265          320
Mexico                                        251                        550         787          931       1,119        1,344        1,618
Rest of the World                          1,250          **           1330        1,435        1590        1 997        2 440        2 930
m 2,803       W.-          t           3
% increase from previous year                  29          41             11          25           17           22          21           20
*  Breakdown not available at time of appraisal.
March 1975



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
Actual and Forecast Iong-Term Debt, 1972-79
(In thousands of Quetzales)
A C T U A L                                     F O R E C A S T
1972        1973          1975                                 1976  1977                  7 1979
LONG-TERW DEBT (as of December 31)
First Development Plan (ongoing project):
IBRD 792 GU                                                    236       2,675        9,390       12,590      14,400       15,230       14,715       14,000
CABEI 1-233-GU-0                                           ) 1 961       2,385        2,210        1,965       1,720        1,475        1,230          985
CAEEI 1-233-GU-1                                           )               567          666          657         493          329          165            -
CABFI                                                            -            -         150          450         600          562          487          412
Bonds                                                          405         -                                   4,650        4,150        3,650        3,150
Sub-total                                                 2,602       5,627       12,416       19,162      21,863       21,746       20,247       18,547
Second Development Plan - Phase I (the project):
IBRD (proposed)                                                  -            -           -        4,783      12,429       21,217       25,417       25,153
CABEI                                                                                     -        1,575       2,025        2,052        1,836        1,620
CABEI                                                                                     -          280       1,400        2,520        2,520        2 240
&ub-total                                                                              -        6,638       125,Tg                   29,773       28,813
Second Development Plan - Phase II (future project):
Unidentified (foreign exchange)                                  -            -            -           -            -        2,600      10,000       17,400
Total Long-Term Debt                                     2,65627                              25,800       37,717      50,135       60,020       64,760
March 1975
uI!0
3 



APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMAIA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
FORECAST DEBT SERVICE, 1974-79
(in thousands of Quetzales)
1974       1975         1976         1977         1978        1979
INTEREST
First Development Plan (ongoing project):
IBRD 792-GU                                                  383          794       1,064        1,072        1,105        1,055
CABEI 1-233-GU-0                                             178          161         143          124          1o6           88
CABEI 1-233-GU-1                                              50           56           47          34           21            9
CABEI                                                          3           24           45          48           43           37
Bonds                                                        -            140          326         352          312          272
Sub-total                              61                      4     1,175                     1,63         1,557   1,46i
Second Development Plan - Phase I (the Project):
IBRD (proposed)                                                -            141          664        1,278       1,848        2,055
CABEI                                                          -             63          145          167         160          142
CABE3:                                                                       17           67          157         210          195
Sub-total                                                                 221         7          1,602        2,215        2,392
Second Development Plan - Phase II (future Project):
Unidentified (foreign exchange)                                -            -            -            104          5o4       1,102
Total Interest                                               614        1,396        2,501       3,336        4,309        4,955
COMMITMENi FEES
First Development Plan (ongoing project):
IBRD 792-GU                                                   80           38           19            6       Nil            -
CABEI 1-233-GU-0                                             Nil          -            -             -        -              -
CABEI 1-233-GU-1                                               2          Nil          -             -        -              -
CABEI                                                                       3          Nil           -        -
Sub-total                                                 845            4119                      6        Nil
Second Development Plan - Phase I (the Project):
IBRD (proposed)                                              -            146          129           69          21            3
CABEI                                                        -             11            3            1         -            _
CABEI                                                        -             26           19            9           1          -
Sub-total                                                  -            153          151          79           22            3
Second Development Plan - Phase II (future Project):
Unidentified (foreign exchange)                              -            _            -            237         187          113
Total Comsitment fees                                       85          224          170         322          209          116
AMORTIZATION
First Development Plan (ongoing Project):
IBRD 792-GU                                                  -            -            -            620         665          715
CABEI 1-233-GU-0                                             245          245          245          245         245          245
CABEI 1-233-GU-1                                             165          164          164          164         164          165
CABEI                                                        -            -            -             38          75           75
Bonds                                                        -            -            350          500          500         500
Sub-total                                                  410                        759      1,567       T29           r7
Second Development Plan - Phase I (the Project):
TBRD (proposed)                                              --                        -            -           -            847
CABEI                                                        -            -            -            1o8          216         216
CABEI                                                        -            -            -            -            280         280
Sub-total                                                  -            -            _            108         496        1,343
Second Development Plan - Phase II (future Project):
UJnidentified (foreign exchange)
Total Amortization                                         410          409          759        1.675       2,145        3,043
Total debt service                                       1,109         2 ,029          O        533         6,663
October 1974
March 1975



Annex 17
APPRAISAL OF SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT - GUATEMALA
EMPRESA GUATEMALTECA DE TELECOMUNICACIONES (GUATEL)
SELECTED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1976              1978
Market penetration:
New rural communities served (cumulative)              27                86
Number of subscribers
Telephone (DEL) at end of year                   76,099           128,783
Telex at end of year                                620               970
Long-distance channels
At end of year                                    1,150             1,483
Average revenue per subscriber (in Q)
Telephone                                           160               146
Telex                                             3,900             4,100
Efficiency
Employees per 1,000 telephones (maximum)               24                24
Year-end receivables/annual billing - months          1.9               1.8
Financi al
Long term debt/net utility plant - percent             65                65
Debt service coverage - times                         1.9               2.0
March 1975



IBRD 11224
L   APPMWO~mtEC    E&CWCCONQt~Ah0~~
Co  K w -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               4               _    _    _    _    _~~~~~~~~~~~~-  1  -b
71, ~ ~    ~     0                                                                                                         WtS    ZoCGC            5- 
Seceno~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SD96)   1.dp9 n, eI
F, st~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SY~~~tols:  (I 973                                                                                          Poct~~~-                   PoleGonoI
M,  0 (3 0 h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lvgno~0 .
/     HFerrHo
El E ~ ~    ~     ~    .0  nebt-r
C-, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCb,0-,
H.~~~~~~~~~Nste-go~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~CSc                                        ; ne
NI.I.C.t6n                      \bCh chocontenengo/                                                                             MO       V    fA
L  d~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ond
V,  Ret~~~~~~lhole,,          1,~~~to CO.adIceMLAmlpos
'   Certo Cobn ol  on en
,acro C                              -.-                  Poento Son Jee                                                                                    0-o----'
0   c e a n                                                                                      29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  . 
00 2                                                                                    e



