E-413
GEF Regional Project
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS)
Environmental Assessment
Prepared by Paul Dulin, Environmental Specialist
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1. The main goals of the regional MBRS project are to facilitate enhanced
protection of vulnerable and unique marine and coastal ecosystems and to
assist the countries of Belize, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico to
strengthen and coordinate their national efforts for marine ecosystem
conservation and sustainable use. The current draft Project Assistance
Document (PAD) includes support for the following: (i) promote the
conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS; (ii) expand environmental
education and awareness; (iii) develop a regionally compatible
ecosystem/biodiversity monitoring program and information system; and (iv)
strengthen regional coordination. The MBRS project is envisioned as a 15-
year program consisting of three project phases. The current project is
proposed as the program's first five-year phase.
2. The general MBRS project area stretches from Isla de Contoy Mexico
south along the coasts of Belize and Guatemala, including the barrier reef
and offshore islands, to the Gulf of Honduras, and then east along the North
Coast of Honduras, including the Bay Islands, to the mouth of the Aguan
River (see Map 1). The MBRS includes adjacent marine ecosystems and
coastal watersheds in Belize, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico. The inland
boundaries of the study area vary by country and specific locality, but are
generally intended to encompass those land and water resources within the
coastal plains and adjacent coastal watersheds. However, as numerous land
and resource utilization and conservation activities are carried out in areas
that affect ecological functions of the MBRS upstream (including
agricultural, industrial and residential/urban uses, wetlands and protected
areas), a broader interpretation is used to sufficiently encompass all
"significant" threats and related underlying causes that could influence reef
health. The ocean extension of the study area approximates the limits defined
by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) for the Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef
EcoRegion (Jorge,1999). These limits vary from approximately 40 km off
the northern coast of the State of Quintana Roo in Mexico, extending out
some 240 km from the apex of the Gulf of Honduras, to approximately 50
km off the North Coast of Honduras at the mouth of the Aguan River and
include the Bay Islands.
3. In compliance with Global Environmental Facility and World Bank
policies, probable and potential positive and negative impacts of the
proposed project should be assessed in order to ensure the viability of the
project interventions. The project has been designated within the
environmental risk category "B", implying potentially moderate risks
depending on the design of project components, for which mitigation
measures are readily available and applicable to control negative
environmental impacts. The present document responds to GEF and World



Bank requirements in its analysis of the environmental and social viability of
the project design.
4. As an integral part of preparation of the project design, a threat and root
cause analysis (TRCA) was carried out to systematically ascertain the nature,
location, magnitude and intermediate and root causes of current and potential
problems affecting the ecological health of the MBRS.* The results of this
study, including its assessment of transboundary threats, are used as the
principal basis for the EA of the project, along with the analysis of the
viability of project components included in the PAD as supported by relevant
documentation.
* Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Meso-American Barrier Reef System. Working
Paper 1: Threat and Root Cause Analysis. FAO Investment Centre, FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme, Rpt No. 00/008 CP-CAM, 10 Feb 2000.
II.     EXISTING STATUS AND THREATS TO THE MBRS
5. The Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS), extending some 1,000
km from the Yucatan Peninsula to the Bay Islands of Honduras, includes the
second longest barrier reef in the world. The MBRS is unique in the Western
Hemisphere for its size, its array of reef types and the luxuriance of corals.
The MBRS stabilizes and protects coastal landscapes, maintains coastal
water quality, sustains species of commercial importance, serves as breeding
and feeding grounds for marine mammals, reptiles, fish and invertebrates,
and offers employment alternatives and incomes to approximately one
million people living in coastal zones adjacent to the reefs. Associated with
the coral reefs of the MBRS are extensive areas of relatively pristine coastal
wetlands, lagoons, seagrass beds and mangrove forests that sustain
exceptionally high biodiversity and provide critical habitat for threatened
species. The outstanding ecological and cultural significance of the MBRS
has resulted in the establishment of numerotus national parks and equivalent
reserves, with several of these being designated as World Heritage sites. In
the last 20 years, tourism development oriented around the MBRS, especially
cruise ship and diving operations, have dramatically increased foreign
exchange contributions to the four nations gross national products. Other
reports commissioned as part of the design phase for the MBRS project
should be reviewed for more specific information concerning marine and
coastal ecology, fisheries and the existence and management of marine and
coastal protected areas.
6.     In 1997, the Presidents of Mexico, Belize, Guatemala and Honduras
signed the Declaration of Tulum, which recognizes the interrelated nature of
the MBRS and the importance to conserve and sustainably develop its
biodiversity and natural resources, and proposes a regional strategy for its
management. In June of 1999, in response to the Declaration of Tulum, the
Central American Commission for Environment and Development (CCAD)
approved the final draft of the MBRS Action Plan. This plan proposes a
series of initiatives to be carried out at regional and national levels to
facilitate and coordinate actions aimed at conservation and sustainable use of
MBRS resources, including: improved legislation and regulatory control,



land-use planning in coastal areas, protected areas management, sustainable
tourism, institutional strengthening, and investigation and monitoring.
A.Ecological Status of the MBRS
7.     The ecological status and the extent of threats to the MBRS is
restricted by the lack of information across a range of themes. The ecological
composition and condition of the principal estuaries, mangroves and
lagoons-which are the first-line repositories and buffers of contamination
entering the MBRS-are poorly understood. The same situation applies to
the ecological status of reefs and seagrass beds in proximity to principal
drainage outlets to the MBRS. The location of spawning aggregations and
migratory and reproduction habits are poorly known, as is the status of fish
stocks in coastal and open-ocean waters of the MBRS, whether territorial or
international. Similarly, data on industrial, artisanal and sport fisheries
catches are disparate, discontinuous and of questionable validity, since in few
cases do they include fishing locations. Also, the number of fishing boats of
all sizes can only be estimated, since the permit/licensing process used in
most countries is poorly controlled. Consequently, the status and tendencies
of fisheries productivity is poorly understood, and only quantified in reduced
harvests for selected species, especially lobster, conch, shrimp and selected
finfish (especially grouper).
8.      While general information is available on currents and winds in the
MBRS, these are based on scanty sampling and several discontinuous
studies. As currents and winds are determinants in the movement of
sediments and organic and inorganic contaminants in the Caribbean, their
correlation with water quality data is a critical need in order to determine the
location, magnitude and impacts of contaminants entering the MBRS. Some
of the more glaring gaps are those regarding water quality for principal
drainages into rivers, bays, estuaries, lagoons and coastal wetlands that make
up the MBRS. It is difficult to assess the static levels of contamination
(baseline) to understand if the Western Caribbean is becoming more
contaminated or less with time, if contamination levels are seasonal, and how
these relate to the ecological health of varying elements of the MBRS (for
example coral diseases and bleaching, fisheries productivity and recruitment,
algal infestations). Again, the capacity of coastal wetland features, estuaries,
lagoons and mangroves, as well as fringing, patch and barrier reefs, to absorb
sediments and contaminants needs to be correlated with the volume of inputs
of these, as can be associated with data on water quality.
9.      There have been isolated water quality monitoring activities in
coastal areas in Mexico and Belize, but these have restricted geographical
range and are subject to interruptions depending on the availability of "soft"
money from projects. Another program is proposed for the Bay Islands as
part of the Environmental Management Program financed by the IDB. Also,
while the general location of industries, ports, industrial agricultural areas,
petroleum exploitation areas and terminals, aquaculture operations, solid
waste disposal sites and sanitary sewage discharge outfalls are known, little
is understood about the volume and nature of their wastes and contamination
potential. Several land-use studies have been prepared for specific areas in
the MBRS, and at the national level in several of the countries in the region.



These, however, are outdated and are not continuously monitored to gauge
changes-especially in regards to land clearing on shorelines and in
mangroves, and the dynamics of deforestation in coastal and inland
watersheds. The lack of a land-capability classification and zoning for
terrestrial and coastal-marine areas of concern in the MBRS restricts an
assessment of land-use conflicts in sensitive areas, inasmuch as their
degradation may have an important influence on the health of the MBRS
resources. There are few instances of monitoring the number by sites of
tourists using the MBRS. While gross numbers may exist based on head-
counts at airports, these are only useful at a macro-planning scale and have
little use in determining carrying capacities and points of over-saturation and
stress on sensitive sites in the MBRS.
10.    The TRCA study shows that the ecological health of the MBRS is
influenced by a broad range of phenomena, both natural and anthropogenic,
and marine and land-based. However, the dearth of scientific information on
even the most basic of biophysical parameters forces resource managers,
policy makers and international development assistance organizations make
decisions concerning the targeting of investments without an understanding
of the real or potential environmental, social and economic impacts on the
MBRS. Without a firm foundation for planning and monitoring of
development actions-especially those embracing integrated coastal
resources management, land-use planning and zoning, and sustained resource
utilization strategies based on known carrying capacities-many of the
national- and regional-scale investments intended to promote conservation
and sustainable use of the MBRS are missing their mark.
11.    The lack of quantitative information also restricts the present
environmental impact assessment, especially in terms of the status and
dynamics of ecosystem functions within the MBRS, as well as pinpointing
the origin of certain threats and their manifestations on MBRS resources.
However, the proposed project is designed to specifically address these gaps
of information on a regional scale, thus contributing the pool of knowledge
needed to address environmental problems affecting the MBRS at both
national and regional levels.
B.Threats to the Ecological Health of the MBRS



12.    While severely limited by the lack of scientifically-valid information,
the TRCA identified a series of actions and phenomena that pose current or
potential threats to the ecological health of the MBRS. The term threat is
understood to be the agent or vehicle that represents the risk to the MBRS.
Threats were determined based on: (i) known or existing problems, inasmuch
as these represent an activity or phenomenon that is negatively impacting the
ecological health and integrity of the MBRS, whether these are qualitatively
or quantitatively substantiated and/or documented; and (ii)probable or
potential problems, as activities or phenomena that pose negative impacts
(risks) to the ecological health and integrity of the MBRS, as these are
perceived based on best-available scientific judgment and the "worst-case
scenario" principle. In the following sections, an overview is presented of the
principal categories of threats to the ecological health and overall integrity of
the MBRS, as determined under the TRCA. The intermediate and root causes
of these threats are analyzed in the TRCA report, which should be consulted
for a more integral understanding of threats to the MBRS.
Inappropriate Coastal/Island Development and Unsustainable Tourism
13.    Land clearing and construction activities for urban, tourism and
industrial developments in coastal areas involve removal of natural
vegetation, dredging, filling, channelization and draining, and sand and coral
rock mining in mangroves, dune communities, wetlands, shorelines and
adjacent areas. These actions can cause changes in local currents and
flushing in bays, onshore and offshore erosion and sedimentation of sea-grass
beds, adjacent reefs and navigation channels, and result in a loss of
protection from storms and hurricanes. Coral reefs grow at slower rates in
areas of high sedimentation, and species changes occur in response to such
conditions, with more tolerant coral species found in more highly-sedimented
areas, especially on near-shore patch reefs (Hall, 1994). Similar problems
occur with the disturbance of the Zooxanthellae symbiotic algae, if light
restricts their photosynthesis or if impacted by herbicides (even in low
concentrations), that may die or leave its host corals, resulting in bleaching or
death of the latter. Construction can also result in fracturing and stress of
terrestrial, riparian, coastal, estuarine and nearby reef ecosystems resulting in
changes in composition of species. As the residential and tourist populations
grow, increased consumption of water from surface and ground water
sources (especially on islands) can induce salt intrusion and changes in
ecosystem function, and decrease the availability of local and regional water
supply.
14.    Disposal or spills of untreated liquid organic and chemical wastes,
whether domestic, industrial, agricultural runoff (including fertilizers and
pesticides) or oil or formation waters from petroleum drilling locations, can
cause nutrification and/or chemical contamination of estuaries, bays,
wetlands, reefs and sea-grass beds, potentially causing massive kills of, and
sublethal impacts to, aquatic organisms in fresh, salt and brackish water
environments, and further affect related trophic chains. Pan American Health
Organization reports that only about 10% of the sewage generated in Central
American and Caribbean countries is properly treated (CEPNET, 1999). The
City of Chetumal, for instance, discharges 200 cubic meters of untreated
sewage into the Bahia de Chetumal each day (Bezaury, 1999). Volumes of



raw or poorly treated sewage of similar or greater magnitude are discharged
from urban centers directly into coastal waters of the MBRS coast from
Belize City, Puerto Cortes, Tela, La Ceiba and Trujillo. Excess nutrients can
result in blue-green algal blooms that compete with symbiotic and coral-
building alga, and smother coral reefs. Repeated fish kills in the vicinity of
Belize City are attributed to effluent from an industrial galvanizing plant
(UNEP, 1992). The disposal of solid wastes into coastal rivers, the sea,
shorelines and estuaries, impacts fishes and reef organisms and reduces the
aesthetic value of the tourism resources. The combination of nutrients and
chemical contaminants is thought to exacerbate coral diseases and bleaching
and/or stress their recovery.
15.    Many tourist sites are over-saturated with visitors, beyond their
carrying capacities, both from biophysical and management perspectives.
Punta Nizuc Reef in Quintana Roo, for example, has an average of 1,500
snorklers per day arriving on 21 large tour boats and 650 two-seater jet skis
(J. Bezaury, 1999). Improper diving, fishing and recreational activities by
tourists and nearby residents has caused physical and biological damage to
island environments, reefs and beaches. Many of the coastal and marine
protected areas are under-financed and exist more "on paper" than in reality,
as monitoring and enforcement actions are deficient. Immigration induced by
the growing tourism service sector and availability of employment
opportunities can lead to the proliferation of poorly planned residential
neighborhoods without adequate basic human services. This can lead to
sanitation and human disease problems, the exacerbation of social problems,
and pressure on adjacent natural resources as people of limited economic
means cut mangroves for fuel and building supplies and fish for subsistence
and income.
16.    Ever-increasing cruise ship and live aboard tourism, which is
predicted to add an additional 20 ships and 2,000,000 passengers to the
Caribbean in the year 2000, can produce similar impacts experienced in
urban areas if not regulated. Belize has an average of 3,000 cruise ship and
live-aboard visitors per day (Belize Tourist Board, personal communication,
1999). Pulses of high numbers of tourists can overtax public services, reduce
local food stocks, and generate vast amounts of solid and liquid wastes that
must be accommodated by municipalities in the MBRS, and present
challenges for police. If these ships visit offshore island and coral reef sites,
waste management problems become more acute, and inexperienced and/or
unsupervised divers and snorklers may present problems of coral breakage
and depredation and uncontrolled fishing.



Inappropriate Inland Resource and Land Use and Industrial Development
17.    Even where industrial and agricultural development may occur at a
great distance from coastal areas, induced sedimentation, especially from the
expansion of agricultural activities in upland watersheds, and contamination
from agricultural runoff and the disposal of liquid and solid wastes of
industrial and urban origin, make there way down-river and empty into the
MBRS. The threats as manifested on the resources of the MBRS, including
the impacts of sedimentation and organic and inorganic pollution, are similar
to those of coastal development as indicated above, with Biological Oxygen
Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and Total Suspended
Solids (TSS) representing the greatest pollutant loads entering the MBRS.
The most important rivers contributing these contaminants are: the Rio
Hondo of Mexico; New River and Belize River in Belize; the Rio Motagua
of Guatemala and parts of Honduras; and the Chamelec6n, Ulua, Lean and
Aguan Rivers on the North Coast of Honduras. Approximately 2,500 gallons
of liquid wastes are discharged from sugar refining and rum distilling
operations on the New River in Belize, contributing large organic loads and
spent lubricants to the Corozal Bay and Bahia de Chetumal (UNEP, 1992).
Of the 380 industries registered in the Sula Valley, the most industrialized
area adjacent to the MBRS and drained primarily by the Rio Chamelec6n,
150 are reported to have environmentally problematic effluents (ESA
Consultores, 1998), with 50% of these industries have a BOD concentration
of more than 1,000 mg/l and a Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) in excess
of 2,000 mg/I. In late October 1998, Hurricane Mitch scoured huge quantities
of sediment from rivers and sent them into suspension into the MBRS.
Chemical compounds, including chlorinated hydrocarbons (DDT, aldrin),
asphalt and heavy metals, buried after years of deposition in river beds of the
Chamelec6n and Ulua Rivers, were washed into lagoons, estuaries and out to
sea, adding to the cumulative chemicals loading of coastal waters of the
MBRS.
18.    Additional impacts of deforestation related to land clearing for
agricultural expansion in upland watersheds, are those of induced changes in
hydrological functions as these may relate to the coast. Reduced infiltration
to ground water aquifers can reduce the hydrostatic levels near coasts and
induce salt intrusion on a subregional scale. Also, with less vegetative cover,
surface water temperatures are increased and will contribute to warming of
seawater, potentially affecting movement of currents and inducing metabolic
changes in aquatic organisms in the MBRS. Construction of transport
infrastructure, beyond the impacts related to land clearing and disturbance of
the hydrological functions in watersheds, also improve access to fragile
coastal areas, as well as upper watersheds and induce immigration, resulting
in increased anthropogenic activities and spontaneous development,
including land clearing, with the aforementioned impacts of deforestation,
increased erosion and sedimentation, agricultural runoff and waste disposal.



Overfishing and Inappropriate Aquaculture Development
19.    Overfishing occurs when artisanal, sport and especially industrial
fishers fish in disregard of regulations pertaining to closed-seasons, closed
and protected areas, fishing of spawning aggregations, and with a lack of
respect for size and limit/number limitations. These actions interrupt
reproductive processes, gradually reducing stocks available for subsequent
fisheries, with resulting reductions in fisheries revenue for local and national
economies. Based on the results of FAO's 1994 Survey of the Wider
Caribbean, just over 35% of stocks in the region were regarded as over-
exploited; however 70% of the pelagic stocks and 60% of the demersal
stocks were considered over-exploited. The over-dimensioned fishing fleets,
especially in Honduras where the number of industrial ships was 360 in
1996, places great fishing pressure on the primary commercial species,
especially as these now use more advanced navigation and fish-finding
equipment and some pull as many as four trawling nets. Species under the
greatest pressure are lobster, conch, shrimp and certain species of finfish
(esp. grouper and large grazers), for which overall harvests has been reduced
by 60-75% based on catch-per-unit-effort, or CPUE, since 1979 in Honduras
and Belize (ESA Consultores, 1998; Rodriguez and Windevoxhel, 1998),
with similar reductions noted in the rest of the MBRS. Utilization of illegal
equipment and fishing methods, including the use of SCUBA for lobster and
conch fishing, has led to excessive local depredation and reduction in stocks
of key commercial species. Sport fishers and divers glean "trophy" fish from
reefs and lagoons, especially jewfish, groupers, kingfish and snook. By-catch
of fishing activities, especially with small-sieve nets and drift-lines, of both
marketable and non-marketable species is estimated in the Caribbean at 60-
70% of industrial catches, resulting in important reductions in overall
fisheries biomass in the MBRS. In 1986, unutilized by-catch from the
shrimping industry of Honduras was estimated at 67 million pounds (Foer
and Olsen, 1992). The Wider Caribbean region has the highest percentage of
discards than any other major fishing area world-wide, with shrimp fishing
producing the greater volume of discards (CEPNET, 1999). Shrimp trawlers
also disrupt or destroy important quantities of sea-grass beds and corals.
20.    The burgeoning shrimp farming industry is gaining impetus in
Belize and Guatemala. Poor siting and construction of ponds in areas
exposed to storms and floods can introduce exotic species and diseases into
lagoons and other habitats in coastal ecosystems. Similarly, exotic tilapia
species can be accidentally or intentionally introduced in local streams,
lagoons and wetland areas and compete and/or reduce indigenous fish
populations. If shrimp larvae are collected from local beaches, estuaries and
lagoons, this could result in reductions in nurseries of natural stocks, in turn
impacting open water shrimp fisheries in the MBRS. Effluent discharged
from ponds into coastal waters can induce local nutrification and introduce
exotic diseases into local estuarine and reef ecosystems; or the antibiotics
used to control diseases may destroy beneficial bacteria in natural settings.
Finally, depending on methods of bio-prospecting and capture/harvest,
certain species of interest could be over-harvested, potentially reducing their
populations beyond recovery thresholds, and/or cause interruption to
ecosystem functions and trophic chains in localized locations.



Inappropriate Port Management, Slhipping and Navigation Practices
21.    More than 90% of commerce in the region is transported by ocean-
going ships, making ports and navigation of high economic development
value, but also a focal point for real and potential threats to the ecological
health of the MBRS (Rodriguez and Windevoxhel, 1998). Oil terminals at
Puerto Santo Tomas de Castilla in Guatemala (export and import) and Puerto
Cortes and Tela Honduras (import) involve the transport of millions of
gallons of petroleum and derivatives through the MBRS region each month.
Two oil tankers carrying a total of 55,000 barrels of fuel visit Belize each
month (Foer and Olsen, 1992), while approximately 400,000 metric tons of
crude oil are shipped out of Guatemala each month. Ports and jetties
construction and dredging associated with channel and harbor maintenance
results in increased suspension of sedimentation in sea-grass beds and nearby
coral reefs stressing and potentially smothering these, and interrupting
photosynthetic processes of corals' symbiotic and other alga. Redeposition of
sediments may induce changes in coastal morphologic processes resulting in
erosion of beaches, accretion of sediments in navigation channels, estuaries
and coastal lagoons, and may change flows in local currents and flushing of
bays and estuaries. Changes in coastal morphology may reduce defenses
against storms and actually instigate more damage from storm surge and
flooding.
22.    Inadequate port management can lead to spills of organic, inorganic
and toxic cargoes, including fuel, lubricants and bilge waters, which can
contaminate coastal waters, potentially impacting nearby reefs, beaches, bays
and estuaries and their resident living organisms. With the operation of oil
terminals (Puerto Santo Tomas de Castilla in Guatemala, Tela and Puerto
Cort6s in Honduras), improper transfer of cargoes lead to contamination.
Where these involve offshore transfer docks (Tela), conduits lying on the sea
floor may break or leak.
23.    Inappropriate waste management practices on ships and ports,
including accidental or intentional dumping of sewage, oily bilge waters,
waste oil and solid wastes into open seas, harbors and bays, can result in
nutrification and/or chemical contamination of estuaries, bays, wetlands,
reefs and sea-grass beds. Most ports have limited facilities to receive solid
and liquid wastes from ships, inducing many to dump their wastes directly
into the sea. Puerto Santo Tomas de Castilla in Guatemala, for instance,
receives nearly 5,000 metric tons of solid wastes annually from ships, even
as it has inadequate waste landfill facilities (Fernandez, 1995). Much of these
wastes are dumped in the open air and some making their way back to the
coastal waters and beaches. Such spills can cause fish kills as well as cause
sublethal impacts to aquatic organisms residing in fresh, salt and brackish
water, and their related trophic chains. As solid and liquid wastes float
ashore, they foul beaches, represent human health hazards and reduce
aesthetics important to the tourism industry. Finally, accidents such as
collisions, groundings and founder of ships can cause physical damage to
reefs, and potentially lead to complete loss overboard of cargoes and leakage
of fuels and lubricants into the sea. Hazardous cargoes, such as petroleum,
chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, palm oil, radioactive materials and similar



toxic substances could cause local and subregional catastrophic damage to
most all aspects of coastal ecosystems.
Natural Oceanographic and Climato-Meteorological PhIenomena
24.    Oceanographic and climato-meteorological features are permanent
phenomena in nature and only represent threats inasmuch as improperly
executed anthropogenic development activities expose humans and their
infrastructure to greater risk. Hence, the intermediate and root causes do not
apply here. Rather, if these phenomena are not considered in planning and
implementing development activities, the threats and causes described above
can be more acute and bring about much more negative consequences for the
human and natural environments. As described in Matrix 1, predominating
currents and winds tend to influence the transport and concentration of
sediments and contaminants entering the MBRS. The damaging effects of
tropical storms, hurricanes and El Niio/fLa Ninia events (especially floods and
storm surges) are exacerbated through improper development actions
practiced in coastal areas and inland locations. The MBRS receives more
than 60 tropical storms per century, with various hurricanes hitting
Honduras, Belize and Quintana Roo, including Mitch in 1998, Gilbert in
1988, Greta in 1978, Fifi in 1974 and Hattie in 1961 among the most
damaging (Heyman and Kjerfve, unpublished).
25.    Coral diseases and bleaching are believed aggravated in areas of
high sedimentation and contamination brought about by anthropogenic
activities on shore. The bleaching event of 1997-1998 was perhaps the most
damaging to date for the MBRS, with corals from the southern coast of
Quintana Roo through Belize and into the Bay Islands suffering extensive
mortality (Kramer and Kramer, 2000). The same study found that coral
diseases were also widespread in the MBRS, with the highest levels of
infestation occurring in back reef areas and patch reefs in Belize and off the
leeward coasts of Cayos Cochinos and the Bay Islands of Honduras. Also,
the rising sea level brought about by global warming will have much greater
impacts on infrastructure built in areas reclaimed from shorelines, wetlands,
mangroves and low islands.



Principal Transboundary Issues
26.    The TRCA study yielded an analysis of the principal transboundary
issues affecting the ecological health of the MBRS, due primarily to
predominating currents and winds found in the Western Caribbean (see Map
1). There are several major ocean current features affecting the MBRS: (i)
the gyre is strongest during the dry-season months of January to April; (ii)
the principal southeasterly-to-northwesterly Caribbean current generally
moves waters off the northeast coast of Honduras toward the Yucatan
Straight east of the counter-clockwise rotating gyre that roughly encompasses
the Gulf of Honduras, from the Bay Islands to Glover's Reef in Belize; and
(iii) seasonal close-shore currents move east to west off the North Coast of
Honduras and the Bay Islands and in to the Gulf of Honduras, until they meet
currents flowing south along the Belizean Coast and tend to mix in the Gulf.
The Bahia de Amatique, located at the westernmost extreme of the Gulf of
Honduras, has a semi-closed clockwise circulation influenced by the meeting
of the coastal currents from Honduras and Belize. The Bahia de Chetumal
drains into the border area of Belize and Mexico and near the bifurcation of
the Caribbean current, where it mixes with the current flowing south along
the Belizean Coast. Easterly trade winds predominate in the MBRS region,
tending to push surface currents into the Gulf of Honduras and into the coast
of Belize. Coastal drainage from the inland and coastal watersheds of the
North Coast of Honduras generally appear to flow toward the Gulf bringing
any suspended sediments and contaminants (and for that matter floating solid
wastes). A similar phenomenon occurs with drainage from the interior and
coasts, including drainage from the Bahia de Chetumal in Mexico and the
Corozal Bay in Belize, wherein contaminants flow along-shore into the coral
lagoon leeward of the barrier reefs and islands of Belize, picking up drainage
from the resort town of San Pedro, then on toward Belize City. Of particular
concern is the Bahia de Amatique wherein sediments and pollutants have a
greater residence time and can adversely affect aquatic organisms. Hence, the
Gulf of Honduras and Bahia de Chetumal are the regional foci for the
collection of sediments and contaminants entering the MBRS, as these are
induced by the previously identified threats.
27.    Other transboundary problems include that of uncontrolled cross-
border fishing by industrial and artisanal fishers in restricted areas, during
closed season, in spawning aggregations, and with destructive fishing
equipment and practices. The species most at risk are ocean and lagoon
shrimp, lobster, conch and selected finfishes (especially grouper), but
depredation also occurs with manatee and sea turtles. Also, the lack of
control of dumping of liquid and solid wastes by ships at sea and at port
facilities has led to degradation of open waters, reefs, beaches seagrass beds,
estuaries and tidal wetlands. The impacts of these activities are especially
noticeable on the leeward sides of the barrier islands of Belize and Bay
Islands of Honduras, as well as the Gulf of Honduras. Finally, uncontrolled
coastal development and the lack of contingency planning on the part of all
governments in the MBRS region has increased the damage inflicted by
tropical storms and hurricanes, with Hurricane Mitch being the most
emphatic lesson. These storms destroy coastal infrastructure and buildings,
spilling into the sea vast quantities of solid and liquid wastes, including
hazardous chemicals, and organic materials and sediments, contaminating



resources throughout the MBRS. The increased exposure and vulnerability of
the coasts due to inappropriate land clearing, dredging and filling has
resulted in important losses in the natural coastal defenses that offered better
protection against such storms. Also, the rapid deforestation of inland
watersheds has led to increased erosion, flash flooding and sedimentation.
C.Legal and Regulatory Frameworks
28.     Each of the countries comprising the MBRS have fairly
comprehensive legal frameworks for protecting the environment and coastal
resources, although their application is disparate depending on the productive
subsector involved and country. Each of the countries has legislation
requiring environmental impact assessments of development projects in
coastal areas, whether these are urban, residential, industrial, ports or tourism
projects. In isolated cases, especially for Mexico in Cozumel, Chetumal and
the Cancun-Tulum Corridor, land-use planning and zoning has been carried
out in coastal areas as means to guide environmentally sound development.
Compliance with these plans, however, has been irregular with developers
varying from stipulations generating local pressure on coastal resources and
presenting new localities of environmental damage and contamination. Land-
use planning is almost non-existent in Guatemala and Honduras, although
programs have been proposed for coastal Guatemala and the Bay Islands, the
latter being financed under the Bay Islands Environmental Management
Program by IDB.
29.     Also, each of the countries is signatory to many of the international
and regional conventions and treaties which were ratified to encourage and
facilitate the countries' adherence to international standards of environmental
protection of marine and coastal resources. The lack of action of the
countries comprising the MBRS on many, if not most, of these conventions
and treaties complicates regional efforts to conserve and promote sustainable
use of the MBRS. Both the international conventions and national
legal/regulatory frameworks provide a basis for qualifying many of the root
and intermediate causes. That is, the lack of compliance with existing
international and regional protocols, and national and municipal regulations,
norms and standards is, in itself, an intermediate cause of many of the
impacts manifested in the MBRS by the specific anthropogenic actions
associated with the threats. Comprehensive list of national laws and
regulations, as well as international and regional conventions and treaties, are
provided in the TRCA report.



D.Regional and National-Level Projects and Programs
30.    Of direct importance to the current MBRS project design are several
regional and national initiatives dealing with the MBRS and coastal and reef
resources (comprehensive lists of projects and programs are provided in the
TRCA report). The coastal resources management component of the
Regional Environmental Project for Central America, PROARCA-COSTAS,
is co-financed by USAID with matching funds provided by international
NGOs The Nature Conservancy (TNC), Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF)
and the University of Rhode Island/Coastal Resources Center (URI/CRC).
The project supports capacity building and empowerment of local
communities in the development of strategies for the sustainable use of
coastal resources focusing on pilot areas in Belize, Guatemala and Honduras.
A new regional initiative, Conservation of the Mesoamerican Caribbean
Reef Ecoregion, is being coordinated by WWF and focuses on the biological
assessment of the MBRS region and determining priority interventions for
treating root causes to resource degradation from a bio-diversity conservation
perspective. Both of these projects complement the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor Initiative spearheaded by CCAD. There are numerous ongoing
international and regional programs providing technical assistance in coastal
resources assessment, monitoring and capacity building. These include the
Caribbean Coastal Marine Productivity Program (CARICOMP) and the
UNEP-coordinated Caribbean Environment Program (CEP). Also, the Global
Coral Reef Monitoring Network, operating through its Caribbean Sub-node
is supported by various international and regional organizations with local
coral reef monitoring carried out with GO and NGO staffs in all four MBRS
countries. The Intergovernmental Oceanographic
Commission/Subcommission for the Caribbean is coordinating support to
countries in the Wider Caribbean Region to ratify and adopt actions under
the protocols of the Cartagena Convention and supports scientific research,
training and monitoring of oceanographic, fisheries and biological diversity
parameters. There are also various projects under preparation with financing
from the GEF, World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, UNDP,
GTZ, USAID, DANIDA and other bi- and multilaterals directed to objectives
of conservation of coastal and marine resources. There is currently a GEF
Block B grant to develop the Gulf of Honduras Maritime Pollution Control
Project with IDB support.
31.    At the national level, several projects stand out due to their direct
relevance to the MBRS (see Annex 3 for the lists of projects and programs in
each of the participating countries). There are various small projects related
to protected areas (PAs) management of both marine and coastal and near-
coastal protected areas, supported by local and international NGOs and
private entities, national and state governments, and bilateral and multilateral
funding, including GEF, World Bank, IDB and USAID. Particular projects of
interest are: the Southern Quintana Roo Integrated Coastal Zone
Management Project (Amigos de Sian Ka'an, University of Quintana Roo,
USAID); Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Barrier Reef Complex of
Belize (Coastal Zone Management Authority and Institute, UNDP/GEF); the
Trinational Alliance for Conservation of the Gulf of Honduras (currently
developing new project initiatives) supported by PROARCA/COSTAS; and
the Bay Islands Environmental Program (Honduran Tourism Institute, IDB)



and Sustainable Coastal Tourism Planning and Management Project
(Honduran Tourism Institute, FUJNDEMUN, GEF/World Bank, currently in
design), both in Honduras.
E.    Public Participation in the Design of the Project and Assessment
of Potential Impacts of Project Implementation
32.    During the design phase of the project, stakeholders were consulted
across employing a variety of approaches. Three regional project-planning
workshops brought together members of the National Barrier Reef
Committees of each country. These committees are comprised of
representatives of government agencies responsible for themes related to the
MBRS (including natural resources management, environmental protection,
protected areas management and fisheries), NGOs active in coastal and
marine areas, and representatives or private industry (especially tourism).
These same workshops included invitees from community-based
organizations, including Garifuna fishing villages from Honduras, Guatemala
and Belize. Workshops permitted interchange of ideas and interests
concerning the values placed on MBRS resources and current economic and
cultural uses. Wide participation of stakeholders in work groups and plenary
sessions enriched the design process and helped focus regional priorities.
33.    The TRCA study, which is used as the principal basis for this EA,
involved numerous consultations with members of the National Barrier Reef
Committees within their own countries in order to assess national priorities
and comprehend the outreach and activities of projects and programs being
implemented within each country. Similarly, contact made with
representatives of regional and international projects provided a basis for
avoiding duplication and promotion of synergistic approaches for regional
cooperation with existing projects. The results of the study were used in the
preparation of the final project design and current EA. It should be
mentioned here that all stakeholders consulted opined that the MBRS project
would have important positive environmental and social impacts for the
MBRS region.



III.    MBRS Project Description
34.    The project design proposes four principal components to treat
many of the aforementioned threats to the ecological health of the MBRS. A
brief description of each component is presented below.
A.Marine Protected Areas Management Component
35.    This component will be limited to a total of 15 marine protected
areas (MPAs),* nine of which already have some legal protection, and six
others which are in different stages of the process of legal creation. Criteria
for selection of the MPAs included in the project were based on the
significance of the protected area with respect to contributing to MBRS
ecosystem characteristics, diversity and processes. The majority of the MPAs
(9) are located in the two priority transboundary areas of the MBRS
identified during the TRCA study--the Chetumal Bay area (Mexico/Belize),
and the Gulf of Honduras (Belize/Guatemala/Honduras). The remaining
MPAs included were selected to ensure a spatially dispersed pattem of MPAs
loosely connecting the two transboundary areas. By the end of the project,
the MBRS will have established a minimally-acceptable number and
geographic coverage of well managed MPAs in the MBRS region, which
will serve as regional models from which expansion and replication could
occur in the program's possible future phases. The component consists of two
sub-components: (i) planning, management, and monitoring of marine
protected areas; and (ii) institutional strengthening.
* MPAs include coastal and marine extensions.
Sub-component A: Planning, Management, and Monitoring of Marine
Protected Areas (MPA)
36.    The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen conservation
measures in existing internationally-significant MPAs and to support the
creation, planning, and initial development of a limited number of new
MPAs in the MBRS region. Emphasis will be placed on supporting
investments that should result in immediate improvements in MPA
protection and management while increasing the probability of achieving
long-term sustainability of management efforts. Specific activities to be
supported through this sub-component of the project are indicated below.
Establishment of ecological and socioeconomic MPA data baselines and
monitoring



37.    In anticipation of the preparation of MPA  management and
operational plans, rapid evaluations of basic ecological and socioeconomic
factors and conditions, including legal and policy analyses and land tenure
issues, will be carried out for each MPA included in the project's first phase.
In addition to providing the necessary information to prepare the
aforementioned management and operational plans, selected indicators
reflecting baseline conditions will be monitored over time using simple
methods that can be applied by MPA staff. An international consultant,
working with the staff of the respective MPA management agency together
with local scientists, will assist in carrying out rapid assessments and in the
establishment of baseline conditions for each MPA. A regional expert
meeting will be held to review the initial results of these assessments and to
devise a monitoring methodology appropriate for park staff to periodically
assess the "health" of MPA ecosystems and gauge the effectiveness of
project-supported management efforts. This activity will help determine to
what extent MPAs are meeting their expressed goal of contributing to the
maintenance and recovery of the health, diversity, and productivity of the
marine and coastal ecosystems of the MBRS area.
Development of management plans andfinancial strategies for MPAs
38.    For four MPAs (Corozal Bay, Gladden Spit, Sarstoon-Temash, and
Omoa-Baracoa), new long-term (10-year) management plans will be
prepared. In each management plan, financial strategies will be formulated
specifying existing and potential revenue generation alternatives and include
the identification of local and international funding sources. In addition, two-
year operational plans, providing greater detail and specific budgets, will be
prepared for each MPA and updated annually. Under this activity, funds will
be provided for local and international consultants, participatory workshops,
preparation, publication and dissemination of management and operational
plans, as well as for posters including MPA maps and plan executive
summaries. For the eleven remaining existing and proposed MPAs, long-
term management plans either exist or are currently in preparation. Short-
term technical assistance will be provided to evaluate the success to date of
plan implementation, review and harmonize planning methodologies, and
periodically evaluate the efficacy of plan implementation. Where needed,
two-year operational plans will also be prepared and updated annually.
Provision of basic equipment and infrastructure



39.    This activity supports the purchase of the basic equipment and
infrastructure in each MPA needed to facilitate the planning process, enhance
administrative capacity, and allow MPA staff to rapidly implement the
priority measures outlined in the aforementioned operational plans. While
specific investments will be finalized according to priority needs identified in
each operational plan, likely equipment and infrastructure for the two
regional MPA complexes (the Xcalak/Bacalar Chico, and Sarstoon-
Temash/Sarstun) situated in the Mexico-Belize and Belize-Guatemala
transboundary areas, respectively and Utila Island (Honduras) will include:
boats, motors, and motorcycles; dive equipment; mooring and marker buoys;
ranger stations; and public use facilities (visitor centers, signage, trails, and
composting toilets). For the remaining 10 MPAs, a basic package of
computer hardware, software and peripherals as well as communications
equipment (base and mobile radios, batteries and chargers), GPS units, and
basic office furniture will be provided.
Transboundary cooperation in policy, protection, and management of MPAs
40.    Most of the MPAs selected to receive support under the project are
located on or in proximity to international borders. Many of the threats and
root causes faced by these MPAs cannot be resolved through unilateral
national efforts. Current issues in need of effective bi- and tri-national
management responses include management of migratory fish and wildlife
stocks, addressing cross-border infractions of existing laws, and the
conservation and management of trans-frontier parks. Under this activity,
funds will be reserved to facilitate regular meetings of the field and
supervisory staff of MPA management agencies in the Bay of Chetumal and
Gulf of Honduras transboundary areas, respectively. It is expected that these
meetings and the resulting dialogue and decisions will provide the eventual
basis for formalizing the process leading to the joint co-management of
relevant MPAs in these and other transboundary areas.
Sub-component B: Institutional Strengthening
41.    To address the substantial institutional building needs in the region,
training courses and workshops for protected area directors, technical staff,
rangers, and key collaborators from local and national government agencies,
collaborating NGOs, and local communities, will be supported under this
sub-component. Courses will be from two to three weeks in duration, and
will be held preferably at or in proximity to MPAs selected to receive
management and planning assistance through the project. Training libraries
providing basic information on all aspects of marine protected area
management will be established or improved in all MPAs with sufficient
staff infrastructure in the MBRS area. Specific activities to be supported
through this sub-component of the project include the following activities.
Training courses and workshops
42.     Training events to be supported through the project include the
following:



Management planning for MPAs (two events @ three weeks each, for
MPA managerial staff and senior government, university, and NGO
staff)
Basic training for MPA rangers (two events @ three weeks each)
Principles of MPA management (two events @ three weeks each, for
midlevel and para-professional staff of MPA management agencies and
collaborators)
Development of MPA financial strategies (two events ( two weeks
each, for supervisory staff at MPAs and responsible government agencies
and NGOs)
Administration of MPAs (two events ( two weeks each, for mid-level
and senior staff of MPAs and management agencies)
Community relations (two events ( two weeks each, for mid-level and
supervisory MPA staff and community leaders, collaborating NGOs and
municipal representatives)
MPA public use and tourism programs (two events @ three weeks each,
for MPA public use program personnel, tourism institute staff, and local
entrepreneurs and community association representatives)
Training library development
43.    In addition to supporting regional training events, the project will
also provide a basic standardized training library to all MPA headquarters
and ranger stations throughout the MBRS region (approximately fifty
offices). This would facilitate continual professional improvement for MPA
field staff who often lack even minimal access to training manuals, natural
history publications, best-practices/management guides and other books on
themes relevant to MPA management programs.
B.Regional Environmental Information System Component
44.    Developing and providing access to relevant environmental data
from the region is a critical element toward promoting the regional
perspective and consensus required for management of the MBRS as an
integrated ecological system. The establishment of a regional environmental
information system (EIS) will provide an essential tool required for
organized data management and decision support. Moreover, a regional EIS
can be used interactively with other project components serving both as a
recipient of and source for data with the MPA, Sustainable Use, and Public
Education and Awareness project components.
45.    In the program's initial phase, the objective of the EIS component
will be to provide the basic framework to guide data collection, processing,
distribution and utilization in support of promoting improved management of
the MBRS. Specifically, the component will provide support for the design
and implementation of a bi-lingual EIS whose architecture will allow broad
access to policy makers, technicians, and the public at large. While the
establishment of an EIS will be a major product of the initial phase of the
MBRS program, it nevertheless should be viewed as a "living" system that
will grow in complexity and value as new data are developed and are made
accessible. The component consists of the following two sub-components: (i)
creation and implementation of an MBRS regional environmental



information system; and ii) establishment of an integrated synoptic MBRS
monitoring program.



Sub-component A. Creation and Implementation of a Distributed, Web-based
EIS
46.    Under this sub-component, a web-based EIS will be established
which will include basic environmental data for reefs and adjacent waters in
the MBRS region, outflows for selected watersheds, and accessible local and
regional monitoring data, including data that form part of broader-scale
programs such as CARICOMP and CPACC. Specific activities to be
supported through this sub-component of the project are described below.
Equipment support
47.    Through this activity, the project will support the purchase of
equipment, software, and the costs associated with gaining access to the Web
required to implement a distributed, web-based, bilingual EIS. The EIS will
consist of two tiers: a primary technical tier accessible to all participating
data nodes, and a secondary, publicly accessible tier providing information
on the MBRS--the latter in support of the project's public education and other
components. The provision of equipment and training will be conditional on
a commitment by each national node agency to participate fully in the EIS by
providing staff resources to maintain data and links to the EIS, and by
making data available through the system according to previously agreed
procedures.
Meta-database establishment
48.    This activity will support the construction of a comprehensivemeta-
database, a regional bibliography, and a core of legacy databases which will
be maintained by a component-supported regional office which will also be
responsible for maintaining the web-based EIS structure and the publicly
accessible information tier. At minimum, baseline geo-referenced maps, and
first-cut distributions of major watersheds, coastal water masses, and broad
habitat types in shallow waters will be included in the EIS. Much of these
data will have to be generated by appropriate node agencies at the national
level and/or the regional office. The meta-database will also be designed with
hyperlinks to other relevant national, regional and international scientific
research, training and technical project websites to facilitate further more
specific searches and research by theme and geographic location.
Information dissemination
49.    The dissemination of information (electronically and in print) on the
results stemming from monitoring and other activities being undertaken to
gauge and manage the environmental "health" of the MBRS will be
supported through the distribution of hard and digital copies of tabular and
georeferenced data, research and monitoring reports, training opportunities
and relevant archival information. The project will maintain a E-mailing list
of interested and relevant organizations and institutions, as well as offer
periodic bibliographies and reports in hardcopy to be made available at
national node agencies and the regional project office in Belize.
Training



50.     The activity will support a coordinated series of intensive, in-
country training workshops designed to build node agency skills in GIS and
data management. Participant skills will also be strengthened in: (i) the
design of monitoring programs that will support improved decision-making;
(ii) the interpretation of remotely sensed data; and (iii) the statistical analysis
of monitoring data including "reference condition" and other advanced
techniques. All participating agencies will have a role in the development of
the training program to target their respective institutional needs.
Technical support
51.    In support of the creation and implementation of the EIS, a small
regional office composed of 2 technical specialists (an environmental
monitoring specialist and an information technologist) and a set of national
node agencies (at least one per country) will be established through this
activity. The regional office will coordinate the development and operation
of the EIS, maintain baseline and legacy data, and manage the publicly
accessible information database.
Sub-component B: Establishment of an Integrated Synoptic MBRS
Monitoring Program
52.     The MBRS can be viewed as consisting of a number local reef
structures surrounded by water and embedded in a mosaic of inter-linked
ecosystems. The ecological linkages between reefs, other marine
environments, and coastal watersheds, are mediated, partially or entirely, by
water flow. However, despite the importance of water currents in
transporting nutrients, pollutants, and reproductive products across
ecosystem and national boundaries, there is a dearth of data on the region's
current regime and its influence on the status and processes of MBRS reefs
and other critical ecosystems. Nor is there sufficient information related to
the complex patterns of reproduction, larval dispersal, and recruitment of
corals, fish, and other important reef components; patterns which depend on
the complex interaction of water flow and larval behavior.
53.     Under this sub-component, a regional monitoring program for the
collection of synoptic data on physical oceanography (surface currents) and
ecological connections among and between reefs and adjacent ecosystems
(including coastal watersheds) will be implemented. In the initial phase of
the program, the geographic emphasis of the monitoring activities will be in
the two transboundary areas of the MBRS. Criteria for the identification of
specific monitoring locations will include: presence of biodiversity-rich
ecosystems; importance of the areas as sources or sinks for recruitment of
corals, fish, or other important community components; and presence and
degree of threat associated with pollution stemming from onshore activities.
In addition to the sites in the two transboundary areas, an additional 5 or 6
sites will be supported at strategic locations selected for their value in
contributing to a more complete understanding of the ecological processes
that characterize the MBRS. Monitoring activities will be planned and
designed in association with the MBRS MPA monitoring activity described
above, to ensure technical coherence and operational efficiency between the



two activities. Specific activities to be supported under this sub-component
are described below.
Baseline assessment and monitoring program
54.     This  activity  will  support the  preparation  of an  MBRS
environmental baseline. In order to initiate the preparation of the baseline at
the project inception, an integrated summary of present knowledge will be
assimilated concerning the ecology of the MBRS based on currently
available information on current regime, patterns of pollution risk,
interconnection of locations and habitats within the region, and ecosystem
state and dynamics. The results of the assessment will be presented at an
initial planning workshop of the sub-component's Technical Working Group
(TWG) in PY 1. Based on the results of the study, it will be the task of the
TWG to develop a detailed proposal for a regional monitoring study of
surface current patterns, water quality, and reef community dynamics to
include coral and fish recruitment.
55.     The monitoring study will be supported by ancillary field studies
designed to characterize the biotic communities and laboratory analyses.
Annual coral reef assessments, using the field survey carried out in
association with the current MBRS project design as a baseline,* will be
instituted beginning in PYI and continue through the life of project. This
site-specific monitoring will provide latitudinal data concerning the
ecological health of the reefs, especially in reference to coral diseases,
bleaching, recovery rates and mortality. A key input into the monitoring
program will be flow and water quality monitoring at Rio Hondo and New
River, and at Motagua, Chamelec6n, and Ulua rivers and an assessment of
their importance as outlets for sediments and agro-chemicals and other
bioactive compounds that may affect the "health" of the reefs, as correlated
with annual reef assessments. An additional input will be the completion of a
risk analysis using satellite imagery of river flood plumes, and/or analysis of
off-shore sediments derived from terrigenous materials, to identify those reef
communities that are most at risk to river-borne pollutants. A key output will
be the development of a hydrodynamic model of surface currents near the
end of the first phase of the project. In addition to equipment and logistical
support, this activity will support the contracting of highly-technical
specialists to assist in the identification of sources of recruited larvae, the
collection and conduct of sensitive chemical analyses of water quality, and
developing a hydrodynamic surface flow model for the region.
* Kramer and Kramer. Ecological Status of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System: Impacts
of Hurricane Mitch and 1998 Coral Bleaching. Final Report to the World Bank. University of
Miami/RSMAS. January 2000.



Targeted research
56.    Water quality issues are likely to be monitored more effectively if a
simple but reliable set of bio-monitors could be identified for water quality.
While a number of simple bio-monitors have been tried in coral reef systems
in the past, none have yet gained widespread acceptance and use. This
activity would support the development of one or more simple, inexpensive
bio-monitoring indicators for water quality that could be applied routinely to
monitor coral reef habitat in the region. By using identified variations in
water quality at monitored sites, it will be possible to use field experiments to
evaluate the precision and reliability of different bio-monitoring techniques.
Once a technique has been developed and verified in the field, it would be
integrated into the MPA monitoring activity.
C.Promotion of Sustainable Uses of the MBRS Component
57.    The objective of the component is to provide relevant information
and assistance to decision-makers and managers of productive sectors
dependent on the MBRS so that adverse impacts of their activities are
minimized and productivity is enhanced. The component seeks to facilitate
necessary incentives to stakeholders contributing to the sustainability of
resources and the economic activities that depend on them. The component is
designed to identify those technical, social and institutional interventions that
will enhance the conditions and opportunities for rational use of the resources
of the MBRS. Component activities will initially focus on the two most
significantly important and potentially harmful economic sectors dependent
on the MBRS, fishing and tourism, under the following sub-components.
Sub-component A: Promote Sustainable Fisheries Management.
58.    There are strong indications that several commercial species of
finfish, crustacea and mollusks are either fully or over-exploited throughout
the MBRS region. These species represent an important source of income for
thousands of families throughout the MBRS region and population levels
need to be maintained to reduce the risk of possible economic and social loss.
59.    Many of these same species play key functional roles in the reef
ecosystem and their populations must be maintained at reproductively viable
threshold levels. Despite the importance of the resource, sustainable
management objectives for most of these species have rarely been achieved
in the region; a situation attributed largely to a lack of awareness (among
policy makers, resource managers and fishers), poor education, conflicts
among user groups in the coastal zone, and minimum research capacity in the
MBRS region. This sub-component will address this issue by supporting the
following activities.



Determination of spawning aggregation sites
60.    This  activity   will  present  clear  scientific  bases  and
recommendations to be considered in the formulation of a regional policy
promoting the sustainable use and management of these sites which will be
developed through the appropriate fora. This activity will facilitate the
collection and analysis of scientific and anecdotal information documenting
the location of these sites, their ecological and socioeconomic importance,
and the production of a regional map indicating exact geographical location,
dimension, and status of exploitation (by fishing and other activities). In this
assessment, priority shall be given to the following commercially important
species: Nassau grouper, the mutton snapper, the yellowtail snapper and the
hogfish. This activity will be conducted in PYI, and will require the services
of two specialists with expertise in the ecology of spawning aggregations and
in the development of marine fisheries policy, respectively, with emphasis
given to the establishment of conservation areas (MPAs) to protect selected
species during annual spawning events.
Monitoring
61.    This is a follow-up activity to the mapping of fish aggregation sites
with the objective of monitoring the status of aggregation sites in the MBRS
region over a three-year period (PY2 - PY4). Visual surveys using
underwater video will be used to estimate changes in aggregation size, sex
ratios, species composition and social behavior. Exact geographical location
and the physical extent of the aggregation will be monitored using GPS.
Support in the form of equipment needed for the monitoring of basic
fisheries activities (cameras, GPS units, nets, calipers, balances, snorkling
gear, microscopes, etc.) will be provided to national project partners in PY2.
Sustainable fisheries management
62.    Assistance in building regional research capacity will be provided in
the form of training, technical assistance and equipment. The design and
establishment of a regional fisheries data collection and management system
will be completed in PY2. This activity will review existing fisheries data
collection systems in the region, deternine the feasibility of modifying them
to suit MBRS needs, and produce a suitable regional fisheries data collection
and management system for the MBRS, using customized software and
development of a users' manual. This system must be compatible with the
MBRS EIS to be established under the project. A 3-day regional workshop
will be held in PY2 to obtain country endorsement of the data collection
system as well as training in its use. Copies of the software, users' manual,
computers and printers will be provided to the four countries in an effort to
initiate immediate use of the new data collection system. In addition to
training in traditional data collection system approaches and on a pilot basis,
this activity will support an 8-day training workshop, during PY2, to
facilitate application in all four countries of ECOPATH and ECOSIM data
modeling programs. These programs employ an ecosystems approach, as
opposed to traditional species-specific methods.



63. An assessment of the socioeconomic interrelationships between fishing
and other user groups within the coastal zone of the MBRS will be conducted
in PY2. This assessment will identify positive relationships as well as
conflicts between fishers and other user groups, and will recommend
guidelines for enhancing positive and mutually-beneficial relationships as
well as conflict resolution measures.
64. Regional and follow-up national training for fishers, government
officials and members of NGOs in co-management techniques will be
conducted in PY2 and PY3. This activity will introduce the topic of co-
management and will lay the groundwork for the involvement of
stakeholders in the management of coastal resources. Professional peer
exchange and hands-on training in specific skills will be provided to
technicians working in fisheries management within the MBRS. These
training will be conducted in PY2, PY3, PY4, PY5 and will make available
trained technicians to the region at a faster rate than long-term degree
programs.
Promotion of sustainable livelihoods
65.    During PY2 and PY3, this activity will support vocational training
of fishers located in the two priority transboundary areas in alternative
economic activities. Training should impart to fishers the capacity needed to
diversify from fishing into more sustainable income-generating activities
including, but not limited to, kayaking, sport-fishing, tour-guiding, dive
mastering, naturalist and similar vocations.
Sub-component B: Facilitation of Sustainable Coastal and Marine
Tourism
66.    Tourism is the world's fastest growing industry. Tourist arrivals to
the Central America sub-region represented the highest average annual
percentage growth increase within the Americas region over the past three
years. A large part of this growth is in nature-based tourism, relying on the
amenities or attractions of the Caribbean Basin's unique marine environment.
The MBRS still boasts some of the least spoiled coastal profiles and some of
the most outstanding underwater experiences in the Caribbean. However, in
the absence of adequate environmental management guidelines or regulatory
regimes, proliferation of traditional sea and sun tourism in parts of the region
(Cancun, in particular) has occurred often at a significant ecological and
socioeconomic cost. There is a critical need to stimulate an on-going policy
dialogue and facilitate specific actions necessary to ensure sustainable
tourism principles and practices are implemented through regional
cooperation.
67.    The objective of this sub-component is to formulate and facilitate
application of policy guidelines and best practice models for sustainable
coastal and marine tourism in the four countries of the MBRS. The desired
outcome is to provide and disseminate examples which demonstrate how to
minimize the adverse impacts of tourism and enhance its potential beneficial
effects on coastal/marine habitats and resources and on human communities
located near tourism destinations. Actions proposed are integrally-linked to



the objectives and activities proposed under the other three components of
the MBRS project. The following activities are planned over the initial five-
year phase of the project.



Regional policy dialogue and cooperative action forum
68.    To facilitate a tourism  policy that provides helpful direction for
local MPA protection, senior government officials and their tourism industry
counterparts need to be better informed about critical coastal and marine
tourism issues and problems. Initially, this activity will focus on obtaining
tourism industry commitment and NGO support for the government to
implement workable environmental impact assessment, inspection and
enforcement systems for coastal land and marine uses. Planning guidance
will also be provided to develop innovative tour/trip circuits which "package"
and market marine parks together nationally and regionally (e.g., Wildlife
Conservation Society's Regional Trails Project or marine ecotourism
associated with an MPA in a priority transboundary area such as the
Xcalak/Bacalar Chico or Sarstoon-TemashlSarstun). This activity will also
provide support for an annual forum to facilitate: (i) developing consensus on
a regional strategy and priority actions; (ii) selection of at least one specific
priority regional cooperation issue and action agenda to address each year;
(iii) drafting, adoption and dissemination of achievable action plans; (iv)
implementation and follow-up through technical assistance, training and/or
collaborative activities; and (v) monitoring and evaluation of outcomes.
Catalogue of exemplary practices
69.    Voluntary codes of conduct in critical segments of the coastal and
marine tourism industry need to be considered and adopted by tourism-
related businesses. International and regional organizations have invested
considerable resources in developing sustainable tourism guidelines and
codes of conduct (for example USAID-supported sustainable tourism efforts
in Quintana Roo and the UNEP's Caribbean Environment Program). This
activity will support an extensive literature search and interviews with
sustainable tourism experts, from which "good practices" will be identified
and adapted for use in the MBRS region. A catalogue of "exemplary
practices" for sustainable coastal tourism will be developed and disseminated
widely in the region through print and the project's website.
Regional environmental certification program



70.    Under this activity, a region-wide, independent environmental
certification program will be established for coastal and marine tourism
operations in key sub-sectors (e.g., hotel/resort facilities, diving operations,
yachting and live-aboards, ecolodges, cruise ship tours on land). This
program will include: (i) agreement on a strategy and steps for certification,
including    performance    based   standards   for   environmental
certification/ecolabeling; (ii) formulation and adoption of an independent
certification and marketing system that positions the MBRS region as one of
the world's leading sustainable tourism destinations; (iii) provision of
resources for establishment of the program on a pilot basis in high priority
transboundary tourism destinations linked to one or more MPAs; and (iv)
development and adoption of a plan for expanding and financing the
certification system (for instance, fee for service, cooperative marketing to
the green market). Efforts will be made to create cost-effective linkages and
cooperative activities with other on-going certification (for example,
programs sponsored by the Caribbean Action for Sustainable Tourism).
Marine tourism exemplary practices study tour
71.    This tour will be designed to provide an opportunity for a number of
"emerging" marine-focused travel and ecotourism operators (those who are
not fully market-ready, or are just starting to market their product) to learn,
exchange information, and network with successful businesses in their field.
A two week marine tourism exemplary practices study tour will be designed
to network and share ideas with 5 or 6 established and leading adventure
travel, marine travel and ecotourism operators in Central America.
Througlhout the tour, experts will conduct seminars on a number of topics,
including product development, marketing strategies, environmental
conservation and management, partnering with the travel trade, packaging,
and market research. Materials will be prepared on environmental practices,
community involvement, conservation financing and interpretation. A
technical report will also be drafted and widely disseminated to the tourism
industry, interested NGOs and government officials through print and the
project website in order to share lessons learned, case examples and pitfalls
to avoid.
D.Environmental Education and Public Awareness Component
72.    A major cause underlying threats to the MBRS as identified in the
threat and root cause analysis in support of MBRS project preparation was
the lack of public education and awareness concerning the environmental,
social and economic significance of the MBRS, and issues that need to be
addressed to ensure its sustainability. A critical element to developing the
political will and policies required to manage the MBRS is building
sufficient public support to catalyze change. The objective of the
environmental education and public awareness component is to increase
environmental awareness among a variety of stakeholders and promote the
development of human capacity to change practices that are detrimental to
the MBRS.
Sub-componentA: Development of an Environmental Awareness
Campaign



73.    Under this sub-component, the general public's awareness of the
importance of the MBRS as a "world class" resource and the need to promote
its conservation and sustainable use will be enhanced. This will be carried
out by supporting development of a broad-based public awareness campaign
using printed and audio-visual messages that will be disseminated through
general media and at public gatherings. Activities under the sub-component
include the following.
Establishment of a database and information "clearinghouse"
74.    MBRS project staff and consultants will gather published and
unpublished materials and media resources located within and beyond the
region with relevance o MBRS objectives. These will be entered into a
database and made available through the MBRS project website. A catalog of
MBRS reference materials will be promoted via all printed and audio-visual
materials produced by the project. Also, relevant materials in support of the
environmental education sub-component will be reproduced and distributed
to target users/audiences.
Public awareness campaign strategy
75.    A public awareness campaign strategy will be developed through a
series of meetings and interviews with key stakeholders in the four MBRS
countries. It will be implemented on a national basis and will focus on the
value and need for conservation of the shared resources of the MBRS.
Development and dissemination of informnation materials
76.    In support of the campaign, printed and audio-visual materials will
be produced and disseminated by project staff and associated stakeholders.
Materials will be produced in English, Spanish and, in some cases, Garifuna
and will include: brochures, posters, and comic books (five of each); videos
(three, each of which can be excerpted for television spots); and radio spots
(four). A graphic designer will create a logo to be identified with MBRS
conservation and sustainable use, and other materials to be used to generate
public awareness. Two one-day seminars for National Barrier Reef
Committees and mass media representatives will be held in each of the four
countries to promote the project and disseminate printed and audio-visual
materials
Sub-component B: Formal and Informal Education



77.     The objective of this sub-component is to increase knowledge and
promote changes in attitudes and behavior towards the conservation and
sustainable use of the MBRS, with particular focus in the transboundary
areas, through the strengthening of formal and informal environmental
education programs. Students at primary and secondary school levels will be
educated about the significance of MBRS and the need to promote
sustainable management practices. Assistance will be provided through
creation and/or adaptation of curriculum materials for students, as well as
teachers' guides and teacher training to ensure successful use. The sub-
component will contribute to non-formal education of professionals in
industry and tourism sectors that directly affect MBRS resources, and/or for
community leaders who maintain strong influence on MBRS stakeholders.
This will be carried out through a series of workshops in which participants
will be exposed to examples of "best practices" in the sector and learn how to
improve their respective patterns of resource utilization. An awards program
will provide public recognition for those community-based, industrial,
governmental and non-governmental entities that demonstrate their
commitment to improving the quality of MBRS resources. Specific activities
supported under the sub-component are described below.
Production and dissemination of education materials
78.    This activity will support the production of primary school level
curriculum materials for students and associated teaching guides, and support
for two regional 6-day training workshops for teachers. Secondary school
level curriculum materials for students and associated teaching guides will
also be produced, and their use supported through the implementation of two
regional 6-day training workshops for teachers. An annual coastal resources
fair and contest will be established for secondary school level students to
exhibit and award projects that most successfully support MBRS
conservation and sustainable use.
Regional workshops
79.     Six 4-day regional workshops will be conducted to educate and train
the following target groups: (i) leading industrialists about best practices for
conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS; (ii) tourism professionals
about best practices for conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS; and
(iii) influential community leaders (e.g., religious, local government, social
organizations) about conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS.
Regional conferences
80.     Two 2-day regional conferences will be held for members of the
business and tourism sectors and community leaders to present the
activities/projects they have implemented and to and give awards for those
subprojects and activities which most successfully support MBRS
conservation and sustainable use objectives. These activities will be
coordinated especially with those under the MPA and Sustainable Uses
project components.



IV.   ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT, AND
PROPOSED MEASURES TO ENHANCE POSITIVE AND
AVOID OR MITIGATE POTENTIALLY NEGATIVE
IMPACTS
81.    As can be perceived from the objectives and description of activities
under each of the four components, the MBRS project is designed to treat
many of the fundamental threats to the ecological health of the MBRS, as
well as contribute to the sustainable utilization of resources found therein.
The environmental and social impact of the project will be overwhelmingly
positive, directly and indirectly. The project will make important
contributions to the body of knowledge concerning the status of the MBRS
and its resources, and the real and potential negative impacts of
anthropogenic activities as these are manifested on the MBRS. The project
seeks synergistic linkages with ongoing local, national, regional and
international projects and programs that deal with conservation and
sustainable use of MBRS resources. By design, the project should
complement both ongoing and future projects and programs, especially in
areas where these programs lack a regional perspective in terms of
conservation and sustainable use of the shared resources of the MBRS.
82.    The proposed project will provide assistance and support to both
governmental and non-governmental entities, as well as contribute to
sustainable use initiatives with resource users at the local/community level.
The MBRS project places emphasis on the two priority transboundary areas
that have been identified as those most at risk of unsustainable depredation of
resources. These areas have traditionally been ignored by national
governments and/or excluded from project outreach as they are in many
cases regarded as "lawless" and outside of regulatory outreach. Because of
natural conditions created by prevailing ocean currents and winds, these
same transboundary areas are the principal receptors of sediments and
contaminants that emanate from land- and marine-based sources, and are
most at risk of ecological degradation.
83.    There is a risk of minor negative environmental and social impacts
related to project implementation. Financing of infrastructure construction
and improvements could present temporary and localized impacts in the form
of sedimentation or contamination if proper safeguards are not employed to
avoid or mitigate these. Also, related to the establishment or development of
MPAs and fisheries conservation efforts is the potential for disrupting
traditionally-practiced economic activities (fishing), although these have
been found to be, in turn, degrading the resources leading to self-elimination
of these activities in certain areas. In both cases, the project includes
mitigation strategies and measures to avoid or dissipate any such potential
impacts.
84.    An analysis of the probable and potential positive and negative
environmental and social impacts is presented below for each of the project
components. As necessary and appropriate, measures to enhance the positive
impacts of the project and avoid or mitigate potentially negative impacts are
indicated.



A.Marine Protected Areas Management Component
85.    Activities under this component will have immediate and positive
impacts on efforts to conserve marine and coastal ecological complexes.
Investments are targeted at consolidating management of 9 existing MPAs,
and facilitating the establishment of 6 new MPAs currently in differing
processes of legal designation. The creation and/or consolidation of 15 MPAs
should advance objectives of the establishment of a Mesoamerican marine
and coastal corridor to complement the terrestrial Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor. The project will complement ongoing and planned national-level
biological conservation projects and several regional efforts (for instance
PROARCA/COSTAS financed by USAID), contributing to the effective
management of legally-protected areas that, up to the present, have been
regarded as "paper parks". MPAs to be funded under the MBRS project have
been selected based on regional conservation criteria and funding will be
facilitated for the preparation of management plans and effective on-site
management.
86.    Proposed training, facilitation of equipment and transboundary
cooperation activities proposed under the component should significantly
improve the on-site management of MPAs. As MPAs are consolidated and
become better managed, their social and economic significance will increase
with greater visitation of residents and tourists. Efforts under the MPA
component will be coordinated with activities proposed under the Promotion
of Sustainable Uses component. Synergies among these components will
facilitate mutual objectives of enhanced biological conservation and
sustainable utilization of marine and coastal resources, especially coral reefs
(diving, kayaking and other ecotourism activities ) and fisheries (as
populations of species currently overexploited recover). Furthermore, an
increase in the area under effective conservation management and increased
tourism activity associated with MPAs should bring about added value of
economic opportunities to local communities.
87.    There exists the potential for some minor negative impacts
associated with construction of ranger stations and public use facilities in the
two transboundary areas of XcalaklBacalar Chico and Sarstoon-
Temash/Sarstun, and Utila Island in the Gulf of Honduras. Land clearing,
limited excavation and soil movement associated with establishment of these
facilities may result in increased erosion and sedimentation. Depending on
the siting of structures, they could interfere with natural coastal processes
and defenses from tropical storms. Also, operation of these facilities could
lead to contamination of the surrounding environment with liquid and solid
wastes if these are not properly contained and disposed of. In order to avoid
or mitigate potentially negative consequences of these activities, a simple
environmental impact assessment will be carried out for each structure
proposed. This assessment will comply with all EA regulations found in each
respective country and World Bank policies and guidelines. To complement
this effort a set of guidelines will be developed to incorporate the
environmental dimension into the siting and construction of protected areas
management infrastructure and avoid contamination of fragile ecosystems in
and adjacent to the MPAs. An MBRS regional project staff member will



develop these instruments, train local MPA staff in their application and
monitor compliance.
88.    In some cases, local communities have traditionally used waters and
reefs of the MPAs (both existing and several slated for legal declaration) for
their fishing activities. Some of these fishers have constructed and used
temporary shelters as fishing camps on several of the islands and coastal
locations found within the MPAs. Depending on the frequency of fishing and
species fished, these fishers could be impacted should their access to
fisheries resources be limited or restricted altogether. The location and
importance of these locations has not yet been determined, nor which
communities or individuals depend on them. It should also be mentioned,
however, that many of then traditional fishing locations within the MBRS
have been abandoned due to diminishing stocks, especially for grouper,
sardines, conch and lobster. In essence, the fishers have degraded their own
resource and impacted their own livelihoods by not respecting basic fishing
regulations (fishing out of season, overfishing species beyond set catch
limits, harvesting undersized individuals ).
89.    In order to respond to the potential for adversely impacting local
fisher communities, as part of the proposed rapid ecological assessments for
each of the MPAs to be supported by the project, local fisher communities
will be consulted in order to determine the significance of local fisheries
within the MPAs. Depending on the results of these assessments, strategies
and policies for mitigation or compensation of any perceived impacts would
be adopted. The project, with activities proposed under the Promotion of
Sustainable Uses Component, already envisions vocational training to
transform fishers into tour and sport-fishing guides and divemasters. These
fishers, already possessing good knowledge of the waters and reefs within
many of the MPAs could also become park rangers within the MPAs and/or
para-investigators in support of research and monitoring activities proposed
under the EIS and Sustainable Uses components.
B.Regional Environmental Information System Component
90.    The TRCA found that the lack of basic scientific information on the
status and dynamics of the MBRS is the single most pervasive limitation to
environmentally-sound management of MBRS resources. This situation is
compounded by the multiplicity of procedures and formats for what little
data are collected in each of the countries and by several regional and
international entities. This component will respond directly to these
deficiencies in its establishment of a bilingual EIS with outreach in each and
among the four countries that make up the MBRS.
91.    The creation of a web-based EIS with a complementary meta-
database will enable scientists, students, resource managers and decision-
makers ready access to information pertinent to the conservation and
sustainable use of the MBRS. Better-informed decisions should lead to better
management of MBRS resources. Establishment of the EIS will also
necessitate consolidation of parameters, procedures, protocols and formats
for the collection of information relevant to the monitoring of the ecological
health of the MBRS and the impacts of natural phenomena and



anthropogenic activities. As part of the EIS, a regional integrated synoptic
environmental monitoring program will contribute both baseline and
longitudinal information on the dynamics of the MBRS, including such
aspects as water quality, surface currents, recruitment areas, impacts of
principal river discharges, coral reef health and tendencies, and bio-monitors.
Over time, the EIS and environmental monitoring program should facilitate a
better understanding of MBRS ecological processes, the importance of
certain geographical areas (such as MPAs and spawning aggregation sites),
and sources of contamination and causes of degradation of MBRS resources.
92.    Establishment of the regional EIS, with both central and national
nodes, will have very positive environmental impact within each country and
the region as a whole, as development planning and conservation efforts will
be facilitated with an improved knowledge base concerning the potential for
impacts, both positive and negative. Capacity building in each of the
countries, to be brought about through the provision of equipment, training
and sustained technical assistance, should contribute to the sustainability of
environmental monitoring efforts as these relate to MBRS resources. The EIS
will support all other components by serving as receptor and disseminator of
information concerning basic ecology, fisheries, tourism resources and the
need for proper management of MBRS resources. The monitoring program
will be supplemented by, and feed back information to, data management
activities to be handled under the MPA and Sustainable Uses components.
Information from the EIS will also be made available for inclusion in
materials to be promoted under the Environmental Education and Awareness
component.
C.Promotion of Sustainable Uses of the MBRS Component
93.    This component focuses on the most important economic activities
utilizing resources in the MBRS-fisheries and tourism-seeking to make
both more sustainable. Activities under the Sustainable Fisheries sub-
component are oriented primarily to improving scientific knowledge
regarding the reproduction dynamics and viability of populations of selected
economically-important marine finfishes which are currently believed
overexploited. The delimitation and monitoring of spawning aggregation
sites will lead to a better understanding of the status of Nassau grouper,
mutton snapper, yellowtail snapper and the hogfish. Modeling of this
information and other data available in each of the countries and at a regional
level will permit better assessment of ecosystem conditions and tendencies,
which will, in turn, lead to the development of strategies and policies of
improved fisheries management in the MBRS. One intermediate objective of
the sub-component is to consider establishment of spawning aggregation
sites as MPAs as a strategy to protect at-risk species. This strategy would
also serve to counteract any conflicting efforts to use information concerning
the location of spawning aggregation sites for out-of-season depredation of
these fish species.
94.    The sub-component also includes an assessment of the
interrelationships of different groups of users of MBRS resources (primarily
tour operators and fishers) with the intent of developing mutually-sustainable
utilization strategies that balance resource use with objectives of



conservation. Also included are activities for the vocational retraining of
fishers located in the two priority transboundary areas in alternative
economic activities more consistent with the objectives of sustainable use of
the MBRS. The conversion of fishers to tour and sport-fishing guides,
divemasters, park rangers and naturalists will have both positive social and
environmental impacts. Also, as fisheries stocking rates improve, strategies
for sustainable fisheries of selected species can be developed with possible
redeployment of fishers from affected communities.
95.    The Facilitation of Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism sub-
component will provide guidance to tour operators, government authorities
and NGOs on environmentally-sound tourism practices, including "green"
certification. The proposed regional forum among representatives of the
tourism and national regulatory agencies of the MBRS is designed to bring
regional tourism issues and policies into dialogue and facilitate adoption of
uniform environmental impact assessment procedures and tourism "best
practices" for the industry. The same forum will promote packaging of
regional tours within the MBRS, itself a strategy to promote sustainable use
of this shared resource. Tourism best-practices guides will be prepared based
on lessons learned in the region and widely distributed throughout the region.
Among the best practices to be embraced by the project are: policies of social
inclusion, participation of local communities (community-based tourism),
consideration and respect of local social and cultural features (esp. Garifuna),
and utilization of locally-available services. This will be followed up with a
marine tourism exemplary practices tour and a regional environmental
certification program designed to encourage tour operators to adopt best
practices and promote environmental protection and conservation objectives
of the project. Sustainable tourism under this sub-component will be directly
linked with activities under the MPA component in an attempt to bring added
economic value to the objectives of protected areas management.
D.Environmental Education and Awareness Component
96.    Activities proposed under this component will enhance the
understanding of the environmental, social and economic value of the
MBRS, its fragility and needs to conserve its shared resources. The
component is intended to complement all three other components in raising
the awareness with a clearinghouse function, through the packaging and
dissemination of information in printed and audio-visual media within each
of the countries. The component will target relevant stakeholders and
convene media events to present information on the MBRS and extol the
need for its conservation.
97.    The formal and informal education activities are targeted primarily
within the two priority transboundary areas. While formal education media
will be made available throughout the MBRS region, it will be
complemented with training of primary and secondary teachers in schools
within the transboundary areas in order to enhance the positive impact of
environmental education efforts. Similarly, informal education events will
target representatives of industries determined to present the greatest risk to
the integrity of the MBRS, as well as tour operators (the latter in direct
coordination with the Sustainable Tourism sub-component) and groups of



community leaders. Non-formal education will focus on the dissemination of
environmentally-sound best practices. Annual "green" awards programs are
designed to engender a sense of competitiveness among educators (through
coastal resources fairs) and industrialists (clean industry).
V.ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN: INSTITUTIONAL
FRAMEWORK, COSTS AND TIMETABLE
98.   As indicated above, the MBRS project will produce overwhelmingly
positive environmental and social impacts in the region. The MBRS project,
as designed, constitutes in itself an environmental management plan (EMP).
The most important effort at environmental and social impact mitigation and
management will be to implement the project as designed with the greatest
level of efficiency and coordination with national partners. For this reason,
the regional office Natural Resources Management Specialist will monitor
annual work plans and evaluations, and effect field visits, to ensure
compliance with project's intermediate objectives of effective environmental
and social management. The only additional activities that need to be
included in the project to avoid potentially negative environmental impacts
are those related to the construction of protected areas management
infrastructure in five MPAs, four of which are in transboundary areas. The
following activities are proposed to avoid or mitigate potential impacts.
A.Simplified Environmental Impact Assessment
99.    As described under the section dealing with the MPA component, a
simple environmental impact assessment procedure, such as an annotated
checklist (Ficha Ambientab, should be used for siting and design of each
structure. This checklist should be applied in the field by personnel of each
respective MPA, or the organization charged with management of the MPA.
The checklist will be prepared by the Natural Resources Management
Specialist assigned to the project's regional office in Belize. MPA personnel
will be trained in the use of the checklist in a two-day workshop to be
organized by the Specialist, who will then also monitor compliance with the
procedure. The procedure should be compliant with any and all applicable
regulations and norms in each of the respective countries as may be
stipulated in local or national laws and codes. As appropriate, the procedure
and checklist should be adapted to local environmental and socioeconomic
conditions.
B.    Environmental Management Guidelines for Construction and
Operation of MPA Infrastructure
100.   In addition to the environmental impact assessment procedure, it
will be necessary to follow a number of environmental management
guidelines designed to avoid or at least ameliorate any possible on-site
impacts associated with construction and operation of MPA infrastructure.
Once the sites and general environmental conditions in each of the MPAs
proposed for infrastructure construction are better understood, the regional
Natural Resources Management Specialist will prepare a series of general
environmental management guidelines to be applied to the construction and
operation of all MPA infrastructure. Where and when appropriate, these



guidelines should be supplemented with any and all applicable regulations,
norms and conditions as may be stipulated in local or national laws and
codes. As appropriate, these guidelines should be adapted to local
environmental and socioeconomic conditions. The following items, among
others, should be considered for inclusion in the guidelines to be prepared by
the Specialist:
Construction Pliase
Construction should take place during the dry season to reduce potential
for rain and storm-related erosion/sedimentation and contamination;
The designs for infrastructure should mimic local architecture and
employ local building materials when available and appropriate;
structures should blend in with the local natural and/or cultural settings;
Avoid siting structures near or within high tide or annual storm surge
levels;
Avoid clearing and/or draining of mangroves or wetland areas;
Avoid excavation/dredging or quarrying of coral rocks and sand,
especially along coastal headlands, reefs and seagrass areas;
If cultural or archaeological evidence is discovered during construction,
cease activities and proceed with a rapid investigation, valuation and, if
necessary relocation of infrastructure and/or rescue of cultural resources;
Construction techniques should include silt barriers and berms to control
accelerated erosion and sedimentation of nearby wetland, riparian or
coastal areas;
A solid waste management plan should be in place at the time of
initiation of construction, with necessary receptacles for storage, and
transport (for removal from area) and/or incineration facilities
maintained in good working order;
Any oil, grease or fuel should be stored in containers and protected from
storms (rain and tides); the contractor should have in place a contingency
plan for oil and fuel spills, including equipment to contain and dispose of
spilled substances;
All areas cleared should be returned to their original (or better) condition,
with any re-vegetation employing native species.
Operational Phase
A solid waste management plan should be developed and in place, with
necessary storage receptacles and transport and/or incineration or
sanitary landfill facilities maintained in good working order;



Unless connection with an established septic treatment system is
available, MPAs should be equipped with composting toilets (Clivus
multriuni) to avoid contamination of surrounding soil and nearby
wetland, riparian or coastal areas;
The MPA should have contingency plans for all types of accidents, spills
and evacuations for tropical storms;
All fuel, lubricants and potentially-hazardous substances should be
stored in storm-proof containers and storage facilities.
101.   These general guidelines will be complemented with particular
impact mitigation and/or environmental mitigation and management
specifications that may be stipulated on the basis of the environmental impact
assessment procedure described above as it is applied on a case by case basis.
These mitigation measures and environmental management guidelines will
be incorporated in applicable construction contracts with compliance
monitored by MPA personnel trained by the Specialist. In complement,
guidelines for environmental management required during the operation of
MPA infrastructure will be implemented by MPA personnel with technical
assistance, as required, provided by the Specialist.
C.Costs and Timetable
102.  Costs for the training activity have already been included in the
budget for the MPA component; hence the implementation of actions
indicated above require no additional financing under the project. The
training will be combined with other planned MPA training events. The
timetable for preparation of the environmental impact assessment procedure
and checklist, and environmental management guidelines will coincide with
the execution schedule for design and construction of MPA infrastructure. It
is expected that these instruments will be prepared in PYI.



VI.    RISKS
103.   The project design recognizes the interconnectedness of ecological
processes within the MBRS, and the transboundary nature of the
environmental impacts of improper designed or executed anthropogenic
activities. These transboundary impacts can only be dealt with integrally with
coordinated national and regional responses. Obviously, a regional project or
program can only be as strong as the sum of its parts. This is especially true
in relation to the number of existing and proposed projects within each of the
four countries that make up the MBRS. With so many national and regional
initiatives, it is not surprising that the level of coordination among these
projects has been very limited. In some cases, project managers do not know
of the existence of other projects; while in other cases, financial aid
institutions and/or project management agencies do not want to complicate
their own efforts with collaborations with other projects. Coordination
among bilateral and multilateral organizations, whether at the country or
regional level, has been poor, resulting in various instances of duplication of
activities, several with the same counterpart institutions. While many of these
national and regional projects support activities that coincide thematically
with the proposed MBRS project, they do not have uniform geographical
coverage throughout the MBRS region. They also differ strategically and
methodologically, in some areas, from those of the MBRS initiative,
especially in terms of their treatment, or no, of threats to the MBRS and their
causes and in procedures and protocols for environmental monitoring and
information formats. These traditional deficiencies also represent a risk to the
present regional project effort.
104.   The MBRS project should facilitate coordination on technical,
methodological and operational levels among regional and national projects
and programs related to conservation and sustainable use objectives of the
project achieving technical synergies as well as financial and implementation
efficiencies of scale. While the regional project should add value to activities
implemented under the array of national and local initiatives, these same
national and local projects must also make accommodations for achieving
greater impact on a regional scale, especially for those resources shared
within the MBRS. Thus, it will be incumbent on managers of the regional
MBRS project to forge collaborations in order to create operational synergies
and make best use of the limited resources available for financing activities
to be proposed under project components. Areas of opportunity for
collaboration in activities can be found for each MBRS component, including
aspects of: policy and regulatory strengthening, training, environmental
education and public outreach campaigns and media development, planning
responses for contingencies, and in areas of inventory, monitoring and the
development of the proposed environmental information system.
105.   Another important risk is presented by the extremely limited
technical and managerial capacity of the four countries' national government
institutions in MBRS countries responsible for managing MBRS resources.
Personnel are either too few, ill prepared professionally and/or are constantly
changed limiting agencies ability to successfully execute complex integrated
marine and coastal resources management projects; or they lack absorptive
capacity for still more resources, even where these are needed. These same



countries are also weak in their promotion of policies that favor
implementation of projects promoting conservation and sustainable use of
marine and coastal resources, especially where special economic interests
tend to exert greater influence to maintain the status quo of overexploitation.
106.   The MBRS project seeks to democratize its outreach and work with
private industry, NGOs and, potentially, selected community-based
organizations, in addition to governmental agencies in the four countries.
This diversification of partners should alleviate the impacts of policy and
personnel changes in a particular country, as well as ensure continuity of
activities and flow of project resources.



BIBLIOGRAPHY
Belize Tourism Board. 1999. Personal communication about the cruise ship
industry in Belize. Belize City.
CEPNET. 1999. Newsletter of the UNEP Caribbean Environment
Programme. Vol. 14, No.1, First Quarter. www.cep.unep.org. Kingston,
Jamaica.
Declaraci6n de Tulum. 1997. Firmado por los Gobiernos de Mexico,
Belize, Guatemala y Honduras. Tulum, Quintana Roo, Mexico.
ESA Consultores. 1998 (unpublished). Informe Final: Sintesis del Perfil
Ambiental de Honduras. SERNA/PRODESAMH. Tegucigalpa.
FAO Investment Centre. 2000. Conservation and Sustainable Use of the
Meso-American Barrier Reef System. Working Paper 1: Threat and Root
Cause Analysis, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Rpt No. 00/008
CP-CAM, 10 Feb 2000. Rome.
Fernandez, M. I. 1995. Informe Final: Inventario de Puertos e
Instalaciones de Recepcion de Desechos Generados por Buques.
Iniciativa del Gran Caribe sobre Desechos Generados por Buques.
Guatemala.
Foer, G. and S. Olsen. 1992. 1992. Central America's Coasts: Profiles
and Agenda for Action. University of Rhode Island/Coastal Resources
Center. USAID/ROCAP. Guatemala.
Hall, M. 1994. Agricultural pollution on the coral reef in the Stann
Creek District, Belize: an assessment of sources, effects and
Government policy. (Masters Thesis). University of London, Imperial
College  of  Science,  Technology  and  Medicine/Centre  for
Environmental Technology. London.
Heyman, W.D. and B. Kjerfve. 1999 (unpublished).The Gulf of
Honduras. Punta Gorda, Belize.
Jorge, M. 1999. Report of the Preliminary Meeting of Experts on the
Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef Ecoregion. Meeting held April 12-14,
1999 in Belize City. World Wide Fund for Nature. Washington.
Kramer, P. and P. Kramer. 2000. Ecological Status of the Mesoamerican
Barrier Reef System: Impacts of Hurricane Mitch and 1998 Coral Bleaching.
Final Report to the World Bank. University of Miami/RSMAS (January
2000).
Rodriguez, J. J. y N. J. Windevoxhel. 1998. Analisis regional de la
situaci6n de la zona marina costera centroamericana. Informe Tecnico
No. ENV-121. BID. Washington.



