Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21786-LAC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED PROJECT FOR US$15.2 MILLION, INCLUDING A
GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMlSSION ON ENVIRONMENT AND
DEVELOPMENT
FOR A REGIONAL PROJECT FOR THE
CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF THE
MESOAMERICAN BARRIER REEF SYSTEM (MBRS)
April 26, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Central American Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = US$
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARICOMP    Caribbean Coastal Marine Productivity Program
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CBD            Convention on Biological Diversity
CCAD           Central American Commission on Environment and Development (Comisi6n Cen-
troamericana de Ambiente y Desarrollo)
CEP            Caribbean Environment Program
CFRAMP         Caribbean Fisheries Resource Assessment and Management Project
CITES          Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
CPACC          Caribbean Planning for Adaptation to Climate Change
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
EA             Environmental Assessment
EMP            Enviromnental Management Plan
EIS            Environmental Information System
FAO            UN Food and Agriculture Organization
GCRMN          Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GTZ            German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Gesellschaftfur Technische Zusammenar-
beit)
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IUCN           World Conservation Union
LBSP           Land-Based Sources of Pollution
LME            Large Marine Ecosystem
MARPOL         International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution
MBC            Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
MBRS           Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
MPA            Marine Protected Area
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
PA             Protected Area
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PY             Project Year
RSC            Regional Steering Committee
SAS            Spawning Aggregation Sites
SICA           System for Central American Integration (Sistemnapara la Integraci6n Centroamericana)
SPAW           Protocol Concerning Specially Protected Areas and Wildlife (Cartagena Convention)
TAC            Technical Advisory Committee
TBDA           Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
TNC            The Nature Conservancy
TRCA           Threat and Root Cause Analysis
TWG            Regional Technical Working Groups
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
UNEP           United Nations Environment Programme
URI/CRC        University of Rhode Island/Coastal Resources Center
USAID          United States Agency for iternational Development
WWF            World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President: David De Ferranti
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director: John Redwood
Task Team Leader: Marea E. Hatziolos



Central American Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
(MBRS)
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ...............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1): ........ 2
2. Project global objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex  1): ................                                     2
B: Strategic Context ..............................................................3
1 (a). Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project
(see Annex  1): ...............................................................3
1 (b). Global operational strategy/program objective addressed by the Project: ............3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy: ..........................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and  strategic choices: ...........................7
C: Project Description  Summary ....................                                 ..........................................8
1. Project components: ..............................................................8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project: ............                                   .................. 12
3. Benefits and target population: .........................                          .................................... 12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: (See Annex 2 for a more detailed
discussion of these arrangements) ...........................                            .................................. 14
D: Project Rationale .............................................................                                                 15
1. Justification for Project design and alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
15
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing  and planned): ..............................................................                              17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed  Project design: ................                                ..................... 20
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership: ......................                               ....................... 20
5. Value added of Bank and global support in this Project: ..................                                ...................... 21
E: Summary Project Analyses .............................................................                                          22
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4lncremental Cost): ............................................. 22
2. Financial: NPV=US$  million; FRR-  %  .............................................................. 22
3. Technical: ............................................................. 22
4. Institutional: (see Annex 2) ............................................................. 22
6. Social: ..............................................................                                                      27
7. Safeguard  Policies: .............................................................                                          29
F: Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                         30
1. Sustainability: ............................................................. 30
2. Critical risks (reflecting  assumptions in the fourth column  of Annex  1): .........                                  ....... 32
3. Possible controversial aspects: .............................................................                               32



G: Main Grant Conditions .................................................. 33
1. Effectiveness conditions: .................................................. 33
2. Other .................................................                               34
H: Readiness for Implementation           ......................   ........................... 34
I: Compliance with Bank Policies                .............................................. 34
L.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ..................................................          1
C.  Legal and Regulatory Frameworks ...............             .................................. 9
D.  Regional and National-Level Projects and Programs ........................................ 10
A.  Marine Protected Areas Management Component ........................................... 11
B.  Regional Environmental Information System Component ............................... 14
C.  Promotion of Sustainable Uses of the MBRS Component ................................. 17
D.  Environmental Education and Public Awareness Component .......................... 21
A.  Simplified Environmental Impact Assessment ................................................. 27
Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary
Annex 2.       Detailed Project Description
Table 1.   Proposed Activities for Policy Objectives under the Project
Table 2.   Marine and Coastal Protected Areas to be Support through the MBRS MPA
Component
Annex 3.        Estirnated Project Cost
Annex 4.       Incremental Cost Analysis
Annex 5.       Financial Summary
Annex 6:        Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:       Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8:       Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:        Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10:       Country at a Glance
Annex 11:      Environmental Assessment
Annex 12:       Social Assessment
Annex 13:      Transboundary Diagnostic and Threat and Root Cause Analysis Summaries
Matrix I   Main Threats and Actions Proposed
Matrix 2   Main Transboundary Issues and Actions Proposed
Matrix 3   Current and Planned Regional Projects/Programs Relevant to the MBRS
Annex 14:      Legal, Policy and Institutional Analysis: Executive Summary
Annex 15:       STAP Reviewer's Comments
Annex 16:       Process Framework for Mitigating Economic Displacement Associated with
MPAs
Map. Project Area and Location of Priority MPAs for Project Assistance (separate file)



Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS)
Central American Commission on Environment and Development
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, LCC2C
Date: November 4, 2000                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Marea E. Hatziolos
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo     Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: GE-P053349   Sector: Environment       Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
Focal Area: Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems
(Operational Program: No. 2) and Integrated Land and
Water Multiple Focal Area Operational Program (Opera-
tional Program: No. 9)
Program of Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data     [ ] Loan      [] Credit  [] Guarantee  [X] Grant    [] Other [Specity]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$11.0 million
Source                             Local             Foreign          Total
Government of Belize                                     0.9                0.9              1.8
Government of Guatemala                                  0.3                0.3              0.6
Government of Honduras                                   0.3                0.3              0.6
Govemment of Mexico                                      0.4                0.3              0.7
GEF                                                      4.4                6.6             11.0
Beneficiaries                                            0.2                0.3              0.5
Sub-total         6.5                 8.7             15.2
Other Co-financing'
WWF                                                                                          2.5
Government of Canada                                                                         0.5
Oak Foundation                                                                               5.0
University of Miami                                                                          1.0
Total                                                24.2
Recipient: Central American Commission on Environment and Development (CCAD)
Responsible agency: Central American Commission on Environment and Development (CCAD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    FY02      FY03       FY04    FY05       FY06       Total
Annual        1.5        3.0        2.8       2.3      1.4        11.0
Cumulative       1.5        4.5        7.3       9.6      11.0        11.0
F)
Project implementation period: 5 yrs; Expected effectiveness date: June 1, 2001; Expected closing date: June 2006
'The allocation of these co-financing resources to individual subcomponents will be determined through annual
programming. Therefore, the detailed distribution over project subcomponents cannot be shown in project cost
tables within this document.
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Project development objective is to assist the countries of Belize, Guatemala, Hondur ss and
Mexico to manage the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS) as a shared, regional ecosystem;
safeguard its biodiversity values and functional integrity; and create a framework for its sustainable
use.
2. Project global objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The global objective of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Project is to enhance protection of the ecologi-
cally unique and vulnerable marine ecosystems comprising the MBRS, by assisting the littoral states
to strengthen and coordinate national policies, regulations and institutional arrangements for thie con-
servation and sustainable use of this global public good.
The Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System, extending from the southern half of the Yucatan Penin ,ula to
the Bay Islands of Honduras, includes the second longest barrier reef in the world. The ME,RS is
unique in the Western hemisphere on account of its size, its array of reef types, and the luxuriance of
corals it contains. The MBRS stabilizes and protects coastal landscapes; maintains coastal water qual-
ity; sustains species of commercial importance; serves as breeding and feeding grounds for marine
mammals, reptiles, fish and invertebrates; and offers employment alternatives and incomes to ap-
proximately one million people living in coastal zones adjacent to the reefs. Associated with the coral
reefs of the MBRS are extensive areas of relatively pristine coastal wetlands, lagoons, seagrass beds
and mangrove forests; these sustain exceptionally high biodiversity and provide critical habit.at for
threatened species. The outstanding ecological and cultural significance of the MBRS has resulted in
its designation as a World Heritage site.
The Project would seek to conserve this globally important resource by providing support to
strengthen existing--and create a variety of new--mechanisms to safeguard its integrity and coni:inued
productivity. These include: (i) facilitating the: harmonization of relevant policies and regulaticns re-
lated to sustainable management of shared/transboundary resources, including reaching agreement on
the establishment of environmental standards for monitoring coastal water quality and other indizators
of coral reef ecosystem health; best practice and regional environmental certification programs for
sustainable tourism development, and harmonizing regulations governing harvesting and conservation
of shared fish stocks; (ii) strengthening the system of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) with in the
MBRS to maintain vital ecological processes and increase representativeness in the existing system;
and (iii) building capacity through training, environmental education and improved information sys-
tems to enhance public and private participation in the conservation of the MBRS and the benefits
from its sustainable use.
Key performance indicators include:
* Regional frameworks in place for management of diverse resources of the MBRS
*  Biological representation and ecological interconnectivity maintained in coastal and marine eco-
systems throughout the MBRS
*  Ecoregional approach to MBRS management incorporated into conservation planning at local,
national and regional levels
* Heightened awareness of the value of the MBRS and of the benefits from its conservation
* Steps towards harmonization of relevant policies and legislation regarding MPA management in
transboundary areas, sustainable fisheries management; sustainable tourism development; and
protection of coastal water quality agreed and initiated in all four countries
2



*  Fora for regional cooperation at technical and policy levels operational
B: Strategic Context
I (a). Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project (see Annex 1):
(i) Mexico   CAS document number: 19289   Date of latest CAS: May 13, 1999
(ii) Belize  CAS document number: 20708   Date of latest CAS: September 5, 2000
(iii) Guatemala CAS document number: 18036   Date of latest CAS: June 19, 1998
(iv) Honduras CAS document number: 19893   Date of latest CAS: November 19, 1999
Common Sector Goals among MBRS Countries: Reduce poverty; increase environmental security,
accelerate economic growth in rural areas, and increase effectiveness of the public sector and its poli-
cies.
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mexico identifies three core themes for World Bank
Group assistance to Mexico: social sustainability, removing obstacles to sustainable growth, and ef-
fective public governance. Within this broad framework, the CAS identifies a few priority areas for
Bank involvement in the Environment Sector, including institutional development and decentralization
of environmental management, better management of natural resources (e.g., forests, water and biodi-
versity), and assistance in the design of sector policies.
Guatemala, Honduras and Belize share similar CAS goals of reducing rural poverty through improved
environmental security and better management of natural resources. Building social capital through
information networking, training and broader participation of local stakeholders in the management of
resources is identified as a complementary goal among the three countries. The Project would support
these goals by first promoting a regional vision of ecosystem sustainability and productivity. It would
support public awareness about the importance of the MBRS as a world-class resource, its importance
to the cultural and economic future of the region, as well as its role as a vital component of the bio-
sphere. The Project would further seek to reduce fragmentation at the national and regional levels in
the governance of the MBRS by improving regional information systems for decision-making and
harmonizing policy frameworks across the four countries in line with principles of environmental and
social sustainability.
Such policy cohesion would lay the groundwork for regional cooperation in the adoption of agreed
protocols for conservation and sustainable use-particularly in productive sectors such as tourism and
fisheries. In line with this, the Project would promote region-wide adoption of best practice in sustain-
able marine tourism through disseminating codes of conduct, providing training and resources for their
application and establishing regional environmental certification systems. This, coupled with opportu-
nities for coastal communities to engage in small and medium enterprise and alternative livelihood
schemes linked to ecotourism, should lead to higher incomes, sustainable economic growth and re-
duction in rural poverty-GAS goals in all four countries.
I (b). Global operational strategy/program objective addressed by the Project.
The proposed Project supports the objectives of the GEF Operational Strategy and the Operational
Program for Biodiversity for Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems (O.P. No. 2). It also sup-
ports a number of Articles of the Convention on Biological Diversity and its provision for conserva-
tion of marine biodiversity under the Jakarta Mandate. These include Article 8 (in-situ conservation),
and Article 10 (sustainable use of components of biodiversity). The Project does this by promoting an
ecosystem approach to the conservation and management of a transboundary aquatic ecosystem of
global importance. It aims to facilitate regional cooperation and coordination in the design and imple-
3



mentation of measures to ensure the ecological integrity and continued productivity of a Large Mlarine
Ecosystem (LME), which includes both World Heritage and Ramsar sites within its boundaries.
In addition, the Project encourages cooperation between governmental authorities and the private sec-
tor in developing methods for sustainable uses of biological resources. It would build partnerslips at
the local, national and transnational levels through support for non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), professional associations and cooperatives (e.g., in the tourism and fisheries sectors) and
governmental institutions (e.g., sectoral ministries, coastal authorities and intergovernmental bodies
such as the Central American Commission on Environment and Development). At the local level, the
Project would strengthen the involvement of civil society in conservation efforts through en viron-
mental education and measures to enhance benefit sharing by local communities. These efforts include
support for training in new livelihood skills, increased capture of resource rents, (e.g., user fees, tourist
and green taxes) and co-management arrangements for protected areas (PA).
This Project also responds to objectives of the Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area (O1pera-
tional Program for International Waters (O P 9). It does so by addressing resource management issues
at the interface of land/water systems through an integrated approach that includes a broad range of
interventions. These include establishing a uniform protocol for monitoring water quality alorig the
coast, with special emphasis on pollution hot spots in transboundary areas; improving regional data
collection to assess productivity of commercially important stocks and status of threatened species;
and harmonizing regulations related to the harvesting and protection of these species and regulations
to minimize the loss of critical breeding and nursery habitats.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A Threat and Root Cause Analysis (TRCA) was completed during Project preparation, which revealed
the following major threats to the sustainability of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (See Annex
13):
-  CoastaUisland development and rapidly expanding tourism
=  Inappropriate upstream land and resource use, and industrial development
•  Overfishing and unregulated aquaculture development
*  Uncontrolled port, shipping and navigation practices
*  Climato-meteorological phenomena associated with changes in ocean currents, sea surface tem-
peratures, storm intensity, precipitation, and vulnerability to disease, in all probability linked to
climate change.
The cumulative impact of these combined threats-both anthropogenic and "natural"-is a growing
cause for alarm. That these threats are common to the four countries bordering the MBRS emphasizes
the transboundary nature of factors that influence habitats and resources, and the dynamic nature of the
processes (e.g., recruitment, predation, nutrient transport and disease) that determine the system s re-
silience and sustainability.
Associated with these threats are underlying conditions that may be regarded as root causes or con-
straints that prevent governments from adequately addressing the immediate threats to the health c f the
MBRS. These include the following:
4



* Lack of information on the status of the MBRS and on economic, environmental and social trade-
offs associated with various use regimes
* At the regional level, absence of system wide mechanisms or legal frameworks to manage the eco-
system as a whole; at the sub-national and local levels, sectoral fragmentation in the management
of habitats and resources of the MBRS
* Lack of public awareness of the value of the MBRS
* Lack of coherent policies; inconsistency in environmental standards and in the application of ex-
isting standards related to EIA, land use planning/zoning, water quality, polluter pays principle
* Inadequate protection of critical elements and ecological processes essential to the integrity and
continued productivity of the MBRS
* Lack of trained personnel.
Issues and Gaps
Information Gaps: Undermining management efforts in all four countries is the basic lack of informa-
tion on the status of the MBRS. Although monitoring efforts are underway in selected areas, reliable
information is required to provide a synoptic view of the system as a whole, determine the origin and
scope of common threats, and form a basis for regional cooperation in the management of a shared
resource. A prime example of this information gap exists with regard to fisheries. Inadequate informa-
tion on commercially important stocks has led to the issuing of quotas and user permits on a frag-
mented basis, without regard for total system yields or allowable harvest. Intense fishing pressure by
individual nations is threatening the viability of economically important stocks like lobster and conch,
once plentiful in the waters of the MBRS. Another serious constraint is the absence of water quality
data for the principal coastal drainages of the MBRS. The production of citrus fruits and banana in the
Rio Hondo watershed, between Mexico and Belize, is thought to be a major source of non-point pol-
lution in the Bay of Chetumal. This, along with point sources from industry and expanding human set-
tlements, have made Chetumal a major pollution hot spot in the transboundary area between Mexico
and Belize. Quantification of this pollution will be essential to identifying its source and mitigating its
effects.
Policy Gaps and Fragmentation. At the national level, fragmentation in coastal resource management
is manifested in the lack of an integrated approach to economic development within coastal areas (e.g.,
tourism, fisheries, agriculture, infrastructure) and the failure to incorporate environmental and social
costs into economic decision-making. This is particularly true in the tourism industry, manifested by
rapid and chaotic growth along the corridor from Cancun to Chetumal in Quintana Roo, in the Bay
Islands of Honduras, and on many of the cays along the Belize Barrier Reef (Map 1). Examples in-
clude conversion of coastal habitat for large tourist installations, dredging of channels and bays for the
expanding cruise ship industry, and inadequate waste management facilities in tourist centers and
ports. The latter increases the stress on already over-extended municipal services for wastewater and
sanitation. Tourism has also contributed to the local demise of conch, lobster and finfish populations.
Of special concern is the overexploitation of breeding aggregations of Nassau Grouper, an important
predator on the reef. Once virtually unknown, these aggregation sites have become increasingly vul-
nerable to harvesting by artisanal fishers, leading to significant changes in biological community
structure and ecology of reefs within the system. Lack of information on sources and sites of devel-
opment impacts downstream contributes to the absence of uniform standards with regard to effluent
and receiving water quality, lack of rigor and consistency in the application of environmental impact
5



assessment to coastal development projects, and in the permitting and enforcement regime gox erning
resource harvests. This had led to distortions in the distribution of MBRS benefits and costs, tlhereby
eliminating disincentives for unsustainable use.
Lack of Public Awareness: Contributing to the fragmented approach to coastal resource management
and to unsustainable use practices is the lack of public awareness of the intrinsic value of the MBRS
and of the costs of inadequate protection in terms of loss of goods and services it provides. Creating
this awareness will be essential to building and maintaining a constituency of support for national and
regional level actions required to ensure the sustainability of the MBRS.
Inadequate Protection of Marine Biodiversity: Despite efforts by the four countries to expand tlie sys-
tem of marine reserves within their national waters, protection of the key habitats and biological com-
munities that comprise the MBRS and of the processes that ensure its integrity and productivity -and
contribute to its resilience-is still inadequate. Knowledge of system boundaries, of the locations and
linkages between source reefs and sink reefs (often in different countries) and the factors that affect
them, is limited. Coordination between countries in the management of adjacent or transboundary
habitats is ad hoc or non-existent. Finally, the availability of trained personnel in coral reef moni toring
and in the essential tools of marine protected area management is uneven, hindering coordiniation
across countries and severely limiting management effectiveness within several MBRS countries
Governments 'strategy
Recognizing, on the one hand, the importance of the MBRS to the economy of the region and to the
natural and cultural heritage of its people, and the increasing threats to its overall health on the other,
the leaders of the four countries bordering the MBRS convened in Tulum, Mexico in June 1 5;97 to
pledge their commitment to protecting this outstanding resource. The Tulum Declaration called on the
four littoral states of the MBRS and its partners in the region to join in developing an Action Plan for
its Conservation and Sustainable Use. The Central American Commission on Environment and Devel-
opment (known hereafter by its Spanish initials, CCAD), comprised of the Ministers of Environment
of the seven Central American countries and Mexico (as an observer), approached the GEF th ough
the World Bank to request support for the design of the Plan and a strategy for its implementation.
With PDF Block A and Block B funds from the GEF and technical support from the World 13ank,
IUCN, and WWF, CCAD convened a multi-stakeholder workshop and subsequent working groups of
scientists, managers, governmental and non-governmental representatives from the four participating
countries to draft an Action Plan for management of the MBRS.
The Action Plan, which provides the basis for a comprehensive, 15-year program of regional and na-
tional level activities aimed at safeguarding the integrity and productivity of the MBRS, was adopted
in June 1999. Regional activities outlined in the Action Plan focus on four thematic areas: (I) Re-
search and Monitoring, (2) Legislation, (3) Capacity Building, and (4) Regional Coordination. Specific
regional activities include the establishment of a regional system of Marine Protected Areas to e nsure
the representativeness of MBRS ecosystems and the overall functionality of the barrier reef system
within a protected area framework; the design and implementation of a regional program to monitor
MBRS health; the mapping of coastal environments using GIS; monitoring of MBRS 'indicatol spe-
cies' such as the Nassau Grouper; the exploration of more sustainable alternatives to fishing; design
and establishment of a regional database on MBRS resources and dissemination of informatioi n; de-
velopment of a tourism Environmental Certification Program for the MBRS region; the establishment
of bi-national and tri-national commissions to facilitate policy dialogue, harmonization of legislation
and the management of natural resources in trans-border areas; training for personnel and infrastruc-
ture support to institutions along the MBRS; development of a communication strategy; and stitnula-
tion of participation by local communities and ethnic groups in issues related to the management of
MBRS resources.
6



At the national level, activities are also dispersed across four thematic areas: (1) Monitoring and Re-
search, (2) Sustainable Use, (3) Capacity Building of National Institutions, and (4) Inter-sectoral Co-
ordination. National activities outlined in the Plan are not the same in all MBRS countries, depending
on the need and capacities within each country in the context of a particular area. Specific national
activities include the development of a bio-physical and socio-economic inventory of MBRS re-
sources; assessment of the dependence of tourism and fisheries on MBRS resources; designation of
new Marine Protected Areas to increase ecosystem representation; creation of legal instruments to fa-
cilitate the co-management of Marine Protected Areas; implementation of actions to protect key spe-
cies such as manatees, turtles and crocodiles; creation of the legal and institutional framework to en-
sure sustainable management of fisheries and tourism, including enforcement mechanisms for existing
laws; identification, control and monitoring of sources of pollution of the MBRS, including liquid and
solid waste; implementation of international Conventions relating to biodiversity and sustainable use
of natural resources; and design and implementation of pilot projects in Integrated Coastal Zone Man-
agement. To promote these activities and facilitate coordination in the implementation of regional
elements of the Action Plan, National Barrier Reef Committees were established in each country.
It is the regional aspects of this plan that form the basis of the current proposal to the GEF. The four
countries' commitment to jointly develop an Action Plan for management of the MBRS and their
willingness to collaborate in addressing regional threats and common problems, signal a shift in atti-
tude toward a collective strategy to safeguard the sustainability of this shared public good.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
In light of this commitment, and the existing gap in mechanisms and resources to promote such re-
gional cooperation, the Project will focus on transboundary threats to the MBRS and the coordinated
actions required to address these. A review of the key sector issues and underlying constraints sug-
gested strategic investments in the following areas:
* Establishment and consolidation of a system of Marine Protected Areas that is representative of the
biological diversity of the MBRS and which safeguards the processes and conditions required to
maintain ecological linkages between components of the MBRS and their continued productivity
* Training and capacity building in agreed protocols for marine ecosystem monitoring and manage-
ment, and dissemination of information to inform decision-making
* Steps towards the harmonization of policies and legislation governing the use of shared coastal and
marine resources.
Supporting these actions requires parallel investments in environmental education and public aware-
ness, and in the institutional arrangements to ensure regional coordination and sustainability in their
implementation.
The GEF Project will, therefore, assist the four countries bordering the MBRS to: (i) strengthen exist-
ing MPAs in transboundary locations and other key sites; (ii) develop and implement a standardized
regional monitoring and environmental information system for the MBRS; (iii) promote measures to
reduce non-sustainable patterns of resource use in the MBRS, focusing initially on the fisheries and
tourism sectors; (iv) increase local and national capacity for environmental management through edu-
cation, information sharing and training; and (v) strengthen and coordinate national policies, regula-
tions, and institutional arrangements for marine ecosystem conservation and sustainable use.
In light of the long-term nature of the goals and objectives implied in the MBRS Action Plan and sup-
ported under this project, a second strategic choice was made to design the initiative within the context
7



of a long-term regional program, involving a range of potential partners and stakeholders in a phased
approach. This project, therefore, represents Phase I of a proposed 15-year Program to achieve the
objective of the MBRS Action Plan. Although the Project has been designed as the first phase of a
long-term program to achieve a series of ecosystem management, capacity building and regional pol-
icy objectives, this proposal requests financing from the GEF for the initial phase only.
These will likely target upstream linkages related to land-based sources of degradation of the MBRS,
including strengthening links to the terrestiral MBC Program and longer term measures required to
bring relevant legislation and enforcement in each of the four countries in line with agreed regional
norms.
C: Project Description Summary
Proiect Component         Sector        Cost Incl.     % of      GEF       % of GEF-
Contingencies*    Total   Financing   financing
(US$M)                 (US$M)
Marine Protected Areas      Environment       5.0            33        2.7        24
Regional Environ-mental     Environment       4.4            29        2.8        26
Information System
Promoting Sustainable Use    ESSD              1.9           12        1.7        16
Public Awareness &          Environment        1.5           10        1.4        12
Environmental Education
Regional Coordination/Project   Environment   2.4            16        2.4       22
Management                              I                 I_I
Total                             15.2           100       11.0       100
*Costs only include GEF and country counterpart contributions. They do not include $9 m in parallel co-financing frorn
other donors which will be programmed across Project components annually. See cover sheet.
The proposed GEF initiative responds to the countries' expressed need for a more holistic approach to
managing a shared coastal ecosystem. The Project will create an enabling environment for harmcniza-
tion of relevant policies and standards governing the use of shared resources. It will disserrinate
knowledge about the status and value of the MBRS and ensure adequate technical skills across the
four countries to support implementation of agreed conservation and management interventions. T;hese
regional measures would also be in line with national commitments of the four countries to interna-
tional Conventions such as the Cartagena Convention and its protocols (SPAW and LBISP),
MARPOL, the FAO Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries and the Convention on Biolcgical
Diversity, and the enforcement of existing national legislation and policies in support of conservation
of the MBRS.
1. Project components:
Component 1. Marine Protected Areas (US$5. 0 million)
Sub-component A. Planning, Management, and Monitoring of Marine Protected Areas (MPA)
Sub-component B. Institutional Strengthening
Many MPAs in the MBRS exist only on paper and have little or no on-site management Moreox er, a
significant number of MPAs lack up-to-date Master and Operational plans and the associated basic
infrastructure and equipment needed for their implementation. Even where management plans are in
place, there are rarely the monitoring programs needed to detect changes in biodiversity status and
other indicators of the effectiveness of protected area management. Also there is almost a univ ersal
absence of sound social and economic analysis, financial strategies and fundamental skills required of
staff to carry out their core responsibilities. In some countries in the MBRS, given the lack of capacity
and trained personnel, public authorities have delegated primary responsibility for MPA management
8



to NGOs. The project seeks to enhance the capacity of those public sector and non-governmental enti-
ties charged with managing marine protected areas through training and technical assistance in the de-
velopment of MPA management plans, and to assess management effectiveness through an MPA
monitoring program. The monitoring program will include, in addition to assessment of biophysical
indicators related to environmental health and conservation, evaluation of socio-economic objectives
of MPA management in line with the improving livelihoods of surrounding communities.
Support under the MPA component will focus on investments geared toward immediate improvements
in MPA protection and management. These include:
* Establishment of MPA Data Baselines and Monitoring Programs
* Development of Management Plans for MPAs
* Basic Equipment and Infrastructure for MPA Plan Implementation
* Transboundary Cooperation in Policy, Protection, and Management of MPAs.
Support will be limited to a total of fifteen MPAs. Eleven of these are already legally established in
the MBRS region, while four proposed MPA sites remain to be designated. Criteria for selection of
these 15 sites to receive project support, were based on the significance of the protected area in con-
tributing to MBRS ecosystem characteristics, diversity and processes, and their potential importance
as demonstration models for effective protected area management and transboundary cooperation.
(See Annex 2 for a table and map of these sites.) . The majority of the MPAs (9) are located in the
two transboundary areas of the MBRS, the Bay of Chetumal and Gulf of Honduras. In the trans-
boundary areas themselves, there are several MPAs that are separated by national boundaries and
managed as separate units. Two of these bi-national MPA complexes, (Xcalak/Bacalar Chico, and Sar-
stoon-Temash/Sarstun ) situated in the Mexico-Belize and Belize-Guatemala transboundary areas, re-
spectively, will be assisted through the Project with the additional objective of promoting a bi-national
approach to their management. Support for development of Management Plans will be selective and
based on need. Since long-term management plans exist or are already being developed in I I of the
15 MPAs, assistance to these sites will be for development of 2 year operational plans (see Annex 2)
for a detailed discussion. Only the four sites with no management plans will receive support for the
development of 10 year management plans as well as 2 year operational plans, thereby focusing re-
sources where they are needed most. All of these MPAs have or will be established within a frame-
work of multiple use. This includes a core, no-take zone designed to protect the most sensitive and
vulnerable biodiversity and ecological processes essential to ecosystem sustainability, surrounded by
areas of different but compatible use, including, inter alia, low-impact tourism, prescribed fishing, and
various forms of reef based aquaculture consistent with local resources and conditions, demand and
assessed carrying capacity. Management regimes established under these proposed MPAs sites will
serve as regional models for replication and expansion to other protected areas during the Program's
future phases. Parallel co-financing of this component from WWF, through their Mesoamerican
Ecoregeonal Project is being targeted toward determination of sub-system boundaries, resource inven-
tories, priorities for MPA management, and evaluation of management effectiveness.
To address the substantial institution building needs in MPA management, regional training courses
and workshops for protected area directors, technical staff, rangers, and key collaborators from local
and national government agencies, collaborating NGOs and local communities, will be supported un-
der a second sub-component for institutional strengthening. This sub-component will also provide
support for a basic standardized training library to all MPA headquarters and ranger stations through-
out the MBRS region (approximately fifty offices). This would facilitate continual professional im-
provement for MPA field staff, who often lack even minimal access to training manuals, natural his-
tory publications, and other books on themes relevant to MPA management programs.
9



Component 2. Regional Environmental Information System (US$4.4 million)
Sub-component A. Creation and Implementation of a Distributed, Web-based EIS
Sub-component B. Establishment of a Synoptic MBRS Monitoring Program
A principal objective of the component is to develop a reliable base of data for the MBRS eco-i .gion
and an information system that can be used to support more informed management decisions. The es-
tablishment of a regional environmental information system (EIS) will provide an essential tool io or-
ganize and manage data in support of improved decision-making. In the Program's initial phase. the
objective of the EIS component will be to provide the basic framework to guide the collection, proc-
essing, distribution and utilization of data, both bio-physical and socio-economic. This EIS %Nill be
linked to Component 4, Public Awareness and Environmental Education. Specifically, the component
will assist in the design and implementation of a bi-lingual EIS whose architecture will allow broad
access to policy makers, technicians, and the public at large. Significant collaboration has been
achieved with WWF, the ICZM Authority in Belize, Amigos de Sian Ka'an, Mexico and the Uriver-
sity of Miami, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Studies, in consolidating data into a re-
gional GIS for production of digitized maps and overall contribution to the proposed regional EIS.
This collaboration will continue during Project implementation. Data from NOAA and USGS oii vul-
nerability mapping related to climate change will also be obtained for inclusion in the EIS.
To feed into the EIS, this component will also support the establishment of a regional and issue-
specific monitoring program that will generate information on the region's oceanographic current re-
gime and its influence on the status and processes of MBRS reefs and other critical ecosystems. Data
will be collected on reproduction, larval dispersal, and recruitment of corals, fish, and other important
reef components to further our understanding of ecological linkages between reefs and other marine
environments, and processes which influence reef integrity. Substantial parallel co-financing from
WWF, the Government of Canada and University of Miami has been earmarked for investigators
working in the region to expand the scope of this research. The Canadian grant is dependent oi ap-
proval of the GEF grant.
Component 3. Promoting Sustainable Use of the MBRS (US$1.9 million)
Sub-component A. Promotion of Sustainable Fisheries Management
Sub-component B. Facilitation of Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism
There is growing evidence that non-sustainable resource use practices in aggregate are beginninig to
affect the overall health of the MBRS. The objective of this component is to support the introduLtion
of new policy frameworks and management tools to increase institutional capacity, disseminate key
information and create the necessary incentives for stakeholders to shift toward patterns of sustainable
use of MBRS resources. This component will initially focus on the two most important and potent ally
harmful economic sectors dependent on the MBRS, fishing and tourism.
The fisheries sub-component will address some of the causes of overfishing by supporting: (i) troni-
toring and management of spawning aggregation sites, (ii) improved institutional capacity in sustain-
able fisheries management, and (iii) promotion of alternative livelihood systems. The last includes
training fishermen in kayaking, catch and release fly-fishing, SCUBA and recreational water sf)orts
and tour guide operations associated with Marine Protected Areas and other tourist destinations.
These tour operations have been successfully piloted in fishing communities in Southern Belize with
the support of local NGOs. This component and the one below will be closely linked to mitigation of
economic displacement (as defined under the Bank's safeguard Policy OD 4.3 on Involuntary Reset-
tlement ) that may occur in the context of MPA establishment and enforcement (see Annex 16). "his
sub-component will be complemented by parallel financing from the Oak Foundation (US$600K) for
fisheries co-management arrangements in relation to MPAs and for related policy reform.
10



The objective of the tourism sub-component is to formulate and facilitate the application of policy
guidelines and best practice models for sustainable coastal and marine tourism in the four countries of
the MBRS. Adoption of industry codes of conduct may then lead to regionally recognized certification
schemes for tourist operations and eventually entire destinations within the MBRS. Activities under
this sub-component include: Regional Policy Dialogue and Cooperative Action Forum; Catalogue of
Exemplary Practices;' a Regional Environmental Certification Program; and a Marine Tourism Exem-
plary Practices Study Tour.
Component 4. Public Awareness and Environmental Education (US$1.5 million)
Sub-component A. Development of an Environmental Awareness Campaign
Sub-component B. Formal and Informal Education
A critical element in developing the political will and policies required to manage the MBRS sustaina-
bly will be building the necessary public support to catalyze change. The objective of this component
is to create a constituency for conservation of the MBRS in the region. This will be done by increasing
awareness of the value of the MBRS and fostering an understanding among the general public of the
impacts of development on this world-class resource. Through information networking and discussion
fora, it will seek to introduce environmental and social sustainability criteria into decision-making.
Activities under this component include establishment of an MBRS database and information clear-
inghouse (linked to Components 2 and 3), production and dissemination of education materials, and
regional workshops and conferences for professionals in the industrial and tourism sectors that directly
affect MBRS resources. It will also provide training for community leaders who exert strong influence
on MBRS stakeholders.
Regional Coordination and Project Management (US$2.4 nmllion)
The MBRS Program will be coordinated under an organizational framework that balances regional
and national representation across the four participating countries. At the policy level, the Program
will be coordinated by the MBRS Regional Steering Committee (RSC), made up of representatives
from CCAD and the participating National Barrier Reef Committees. The RSC will provide overall
policy guidance on objectives of the Program, and coordinate the participation of national, regional,
and international government and NGO counterpart organizations in its implementation. The RSC will
liaise with other potential partners within and outside the region to attract additional co-financing for
the program over the long term. It will review and approve annual work plans and resolve coordina-
tion issues that may arise between countries. The RSC will be supported by a Technical Advisory
Committee (TAC) composed of internationally recognized experts in the fields relevant to MBRS
Program objectives. The TAC will be responsible for advising the PCU on technical matters which
may arise during the implementation of the Program. Members will provide technical input for the
design and review of annual work programs and serve as information gateways to state of the art man-
agement, good practice, and professional networks in the areas of MPA management, sustainable
coastal tourism, regional fisheries management, coral reef ecosystem monitoring and EIS, and envi-
ronmental education and outreach. The TAC will also serve as an "honest-broker" to the PCU with
respect to resolution of technical issues under the Project that may be particularly contentious. The
TAC will provide advice on an as-needed basis and will convene electronically to provide timely input
to annual work plans. A Program Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for direct imple-
mentation of the Program, with technical support provided by Regional Technical Working Groups
(TWG) made up of appropriately selected representatives from the National Barrier Reef Committees
I "Exemplary" refers to those practices that have been shown to produce superior results; elected by a systematic process;
and judged as exemplary, good, or successfully demonstrated. The practices then need to be adapted to fit a particular organi-
zation and are practiced by exemplary operators.
11



and supporting local institutions. These will be complemented by regional/international consultants on
an "as-needed" basis.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
The key policy reforms promoted by the Project will be agreement on and initiation of steps 13ward
regional harmonization of the policy and regulatory framework surrounding the use of shared re-
sources of the MBRS and the protection of vital elements and processes essential to its health and pro-
ductivity. These steps include institutional arrangements (such as creation of regional fora for 1 chni-
cal and policy dialogue, dispute resolution, local governance initiatives, including participatory man-
agement by local communities of resources associated with adjacent MPAs), an informed public and
political constituency, regional codes of conduct, and draft regulations in support of harmonizecl poli-
cies and legislation related to:
*  Establishment, management and enforcement of Marine Protected Areas
* Sustainable harvesting of commercially valuable species of shellfish and finfish and protect on of
threatened and endangered species, (e.g., sea turtles, manatees, black coral)
*  Consistency in scope and application of environmental impact assessment; land use planninQ and
zoning in coastal areas, particularly as they relate to tourism
* Adoption of best practice and a regional environmental certification system for the tourism i ndus-
try
*  Standards and maintenance of coastal water quality and a region-wide reporting system.
A Policy Working Group will support reforms in these key areas by assisting the regional TWGs to
formulate policy recommendations related to these issues and ensuring that these are raised through
the CCAD for consideration at the highest levels of decision-making.
Institutional reforms supported by the Project include creation of a mechanism for regional dia)ogue
and coordination in the management and monitoring of the MBRS as a shared, transboundary public
good; the establishment and maintenance of multi-stakeholder coral reef committees, which reflect
diversity in culture and gender in each country to promote integrated sectoral planning and manage-
ment of the barrier reef; and a formal process of consultation and ownership in the design and irnple-
mentation of a long-term program to conserve the MBRS. These reforms will help build institutional
capacity in the region and enhance the sustainability of efforts to protect and manage the marine ele-
ments of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC).
3. Benefits and target population:
Project benefits mainly revolve around conservation outcomes and opportunities for sustainable u se of
the MBRS and its resources. These are the result of a system-wide approach to coastal and marine re-
source management that enhances regional cooperation, uniform and high performance standards and
sustainability of outcomes. The Project's transboundary focus fills a gap created by historically na-
tional and sector specific management interventions. Beneficiaries of the Project include:
The region and the global environment, through protection of important biodiversity and ,ther
vital environmental goods and services
12



*  The four countries bordering the MBRS (e.g., Belize, Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico), which
may use environmental diplomacy to advance regional economic integration objectives under the
Central American System of Integration (Sistema de Integracion Centroamericano-SICA), of
which CCAD is a part.
*  Local populations currently dependent on the resources of the MBRS, or those whose livelihoods
may be affected by the creation of Marine Protected Areas, and which could be improved through
access to new opportunities for sustainable enterprises based on the resources of the MBRS. These
beneficiaries include indigenous groups, such as Garifuna communities along the coasts of Belize,
Honduras and Guatemala; Mayan communities in frontier areas between southern Belize and
Guatemala; Miskito communities along the southernmost margins of the MBRS; and Ladino
populations who have moved in more recently to coastal areas and tourism destinations in search
of employment, who may be in conflict with more traditional MBRS resource users. Women in all
these groups represent a subset of beneficiaries who will be targeted under the Project. While tra-
ditional use has focused primarily on fishing and coastal agriculture, many of the communities,
and particularly women, have expressed interest in becoming involved in tourism-either cultural
or nature-based-in association with Marine Protected Areas. Training in alternative livelihood
schemes would be both gender and culturally oriented.
*  Fishing cooperatives (such as the Belize Fishermen Cooperative Association, the National Fish-
ermen Cooperative, the Placencia Cooperative, and Asociacion de Pescadores de Manabique),
which would benefit from improved information on resource states and non-destructive fishing
methods, and consistency in the timing and enforcement of closed seasons and no-take reserves in
transboundary areas of the MBRS.
*  NGOs (such as TIDES, Belize Audubon Society, Green Reef, BELPO, Fundacion Mario Dary,
FUNDAECO, Honduras Coral Reef Fund, PROLANSATE, BICA, Amigos de Sian Ka'an,
ECOSUR as recipients of equipment, information and training, etc.); the scientific community,
which will benefit from the information within the EIS; etc.
E  Private sector, including the tourism industry (through study tours in best practice, a regional envi-
ronmental certification program, discussion fora with industry counterparts in the region), fisheries
and cruise ship industries, etc.
*  Donor community, through strategic programming of resources and improved coordination in
project/program implementation to achieve greater regional impacts
*  Regional institutions, like CCAD, which will be strengthened through increased synergy among
projects implemented under the MBC umbrella, decentralized project coordination units, and im-
proved information access and outreach.
Specific Project benefits include the following:
*  Improvements in MPA networks, monitoring and management with emphasis on sustainability of
efforts (includes basic equipment and infrastructure to implement management plans)
*  Enhanced capacity in the region to monitor health of the MBRS and make information available to
decision-makers/policy-makers and to stakeholders at the local level
*  Improved livelihoods for local communities through better environmental management, skills and
entrepreneurship training, education and technologies for sustainable income generation
13



*  A regional constituency for conservation of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System as part of the
MBC
*  Mechanisms for sustained regional cooperation in managing the MBRS at the policy, inforimiation
and technical levels
*  Improvements in the overall health of the MBRS environment, as measured through proxies like
water quality, biological community stability, biological productivity, local recovery from periodic
disturbances, etc.).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: (See Annex 2 for a more detailed discussion of
these arrangements)
CCAD will be the implementing agency for the MBRS Program and will oversee execution by the
PCU of the five year Project proposed during Phase I (see Figure 1). Additional resources have been
allocated toward strengthening the technical and supervisory capacity of CCAD HQ in San Salvador
in the administration of this project. This includes the hiring of a technical staff member to oversee
project execution and to liaise with Senior Management on policy issues requiring the attention of
CCAD members (e.g., the Council of Environment Ministers). As part of this liason role, closer inte-
gration with the terrestrial regional Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Program implemented by
CCAD will be sought, as well as links to Bank implemented MBC projects at the national level, w,here
relevant. To assist CCAD in integrating environmental concerns into the larger development context
of the region, the Bank in its dialogue with clients will highlight the role of CCAD in mainstrearning
environment and the need to ensure CCAD's institutional sustainability. At the policy level, the Proj-
ect will be coordinated by a Regional Steering Committee (the RSC) made up of the Executive Sec-
retary of CCAD or his delegate, and the National Coordinator for the MBRS Project in each country.
The regional PCU, based in Belize, will be responsible for direct implementation of the five year Proj-
ect during the Program's first phase. The participating countries will be responsible for implementa-
tion of existing laws and regulations related to the use of MBRS resources, including framework. for
their conservation, (e.g., Marine Protected Areas, bans on harvesting of threatened and endangered
species, zoning of coastal landscapes, and creation of fishery reserves, closed seasons and permitting
systems). The PCU will be supported by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), a roster of inter-
nationally recognized experts in the technical areas of project assistance, who have agreed to ser e as
advisors to the PCU and may be called on, as needed.
Given the perspective of the Action Plan's 15-year implementation period, the ultimate objective is to
transform the PCU into a technical center of excellence for coastal and marine resources management
in the region, under the mantle of CCAD. Institutional strengthening will be achieved over time,
through the hiring of skilled technical specialists to coordinate the program in its various phases, and
through networking with research institutions and other organizations working with state of the art
methods for coral reef ecosystem management. During the project's first phase, technical support will
be provided to the PCU by the Regional TWGs, complemented by regional/international consultants
on an "as-needed" basis.2 The TWGs will be supported by the Policy Working Group (see below un-
der Project Rationale). Program activities under each of the four proposed components: Marine IPro-
tected Areas; Regional Environmental Information System (EIS); Promoting Sustainable Use of the
MBRS; and Public Awareness and Environmental Education, will be executed by a mix of local and
regional entities. Administrative support to the PCU will be provided by UNDP in the form of inter-
national procurement and management and disbursement of project funds (see Annex 6).
2 Costs of consultants have been budgeted for under the respective components.
14



D: Project Rationale
1. Justification for Project design and alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The MBRS Program objectives are ambitious and institutionally complex. In light of this and the
longer-term time frames required to achieve goals related to environmental quality and policy reform,
a gradualist approach was incorporated into Project design. The time frame was shifted from an initial
5 year Project to a proposed 15 year Program. The current Project represents the first phase of a 3-
phase Program whose design will be ongoing and will depend in part on the results of the initial 5 year
effort. Phase 1 will focus on institutional coordination and strategic interventions in capacity building,
public awareness and policy reform to lay the groundwork for future interventions. Rather than seek
to achieve lasting impact on the ground in Phase 1, this incremental approach provides the basis for a
sustained effort with the opportunity to build and expand on successful activities initiated in the first
phase, leading to a scaling up of Project scope and impact over the life of the Program.
Achieving institutional change is a long-term proposition, particularly when it entails strengthening
and harmonizing national policies, regulations, and institutional arrangements over four countries.
During the Program's initial phase, institutional and policy objectives will be identified by TWGs in
each thematic area with the help of a Policy Working Group composed of experts in environmental
law and natural resources management policy from the region. The role of the Policy Working Group
will be to assist the TWGs in the identification of priority "soft" policy objectives, achievable in the
short term, which would be required to harmonize national regulatory frameworks with agreed re-
gional frameworks governing the use of the MBRS. These might include standards for coastal water
quality, application of EIA and zoning requirements for coastal tourism development, waste manage-
ment in tourist facilities, construction and setbacks along the coast, permitting for recreational use of
MBRS resources, and regulations governing the seasonality, minimum size, gender and maximum
harvest of commercial fish stocks, and the establishment of port state control in major ports of the
MMBRS. In addition, support for the introduction and adoption of best practices among small hotel and
dive tour operators, cruise ship and live-aboards in the region will be promoted. The Project would
support compliance with these standards through facilitating transparency in their application
and monitoring, and the use of economic instruments as incentives for their adoption. The
Policy Working Group will liaise closely with CCAD and its legal office to ensure that policy objec-
tives under this phase of the Project are raised to the highest levels for consideration within the System
for Central American Integration (SICA). Performance benchmarks to indicate progress toward policy
harmonization will be agreed during PYI. A performance indicator of overall progress in policy har-
monization has been included in Annex.
To help guide the direction of the overall Program in the medium to long term, an analysis of various
development scenarios for the MBRS region, based on national economic development plans and data
from the Sistema de Integracion Centroamericana (SICA) will be undertaken at the beginning of PY2.
The study will look at likely sectors of economic growth, such as tourism, fisheries and agriculture,
demographic trends, and their impacts on the coastal zone. These growth scenarios will be examined
in light of current national policies and legislation goveming use of shared resources of the MBRS,
and the environmental policy agenda of CCAD. Areas of convergence between high impact scenarios
and CCAD's environmental agenda will identify synergies which the Project can help promote over
the medium to longer term Where unsustainable growth scenarios signal the need for major policy
shifts or closure of gaps in existing legislation, the MBRS Project can focus attention on those with
direct impact on the health of the MBRS during subsequent phases and work with CCAD to put these
issues on the Agenda of SICA to bring regional development agendas in line with environmental poli-
cies objectives. Investments and technical assistance required to support shifts in policy to offset un-
sustainable development trends, will be identified and designed into subsequent phases of the Program
15



to ensure that follow on phases are consistent with projected development outcomes in the region.
External funding will be sought for this study.
A second consideration in Project design was geographic focus. An early proposal by other corai reef
countries in the region to be included in the Project was rejected because of the difficulty in ccordi-
nating activities over such a wide area. The decision to include only Mexico, Belize, Honduras and
Guatemala in this initial phase was a result of the high level of political commitment manifested i n the
Tulum Declaration and subsequent agreements among the four countries, and their common stake in a
shared resource. Furthermore, because it was not deemed possible to implement activities eqially
across an area as large as the MBRS, a phasing of Project focal areas was also adopted:
*  In the first phase, many of the field-based interventions are concentrated in the MBRS's two tbans-
boundary areas: Chetumal Bay to the north (involving Mexico and Belize) and Gulf of Honcluras
to the South (where the frontier areas between Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras overlap). This is
also consistent with the regional orientation of Phase 1, in which the incremental (or supra-
national) aspects of marine ecosystem conservation and management are being supported.
*  The geographic scope of the Program may be expanded in subsequent phases to include scurce
reefs for recruiting larvae outside the MBRS-as far as Brazil, in the case of lobster and i-ther
highly dispersing species. Parallel initiatives recently underway or planned, e.g., in San Andres,
Colombia under Coralina, and in Nicaragua and other parts of Central America, may be linked to
achieve critical mass and economies of scale in, for instance, MPA training and environmental
education.
Conservation of terrestrial and aquatic systems upstream in watersheds emptying into the MBRS are
likely to be the focus of subsequent phases of the Program, in light of the clear linkages between these
systems and the coastal zone. The impact of sedimentation and nutrient runoff from poor land use and
agricultural practices on coral reefs is well decumented. In light of anticipated increases in demo-
graphic pressure in the watersheds and coastal plains of the MBRS over the next 10-15 years, a stbate-
gic shift in focus landward will be required in subsequent phases of the project to offset major l;md-
based threats to the sustainability of the MBRS. Riverbasin modeling of the impacts of clirnate
change and land use in Caribbean watershed on habitats and processes downstream, along with e co-
nomic models of the value and use of MBRS resources over the next decade, referred to earlier. are
among the analytical tools that will be applied in the design of follow-on phases.
The environmental information system, sustainable use, and MPA components of the Project have
been designed incrementally, with the intent of expanding these in subsequent phases of the Program.
Support for pilot activities in MPA monitoring, tourism and alternative livelihoods has been designed
to test the feasibility of specific enterprises and policies. This can be scaled up during later years ol the
Program to launch successful initiatives throughout the MBRS and other parts of the MBC.
Finally, although maritime pollution and habitat degradation related to shipping (including impacts
from cruise ships) and inadequate port reception facilities were identified as a significant trans-
boundary threats, the Project will not address these issues. These are currently being addressed by
other donors, such as WWF and USAID, and will form the basis for a complementary regional project,
currently under preparation in the Gulf of Honduras, to be executed by the IDB with GEF support.
16



2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed. ongo-
ing and planned).
Sector issue                       Project                       Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects only)
Bank-                                                          Implementation   Development
Financed                                                         Progress (IP)     Objective
(DO)
Mexico Mesoamerican Biological Corridor Project
(World Bank/United Mexican States)
Conservation of Sarstoon-Temash Protected Area
(World Bank/GEF MSP and Government of Belize)
Honduras Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project (World
Bank/IDA; Honduras Institute of Tourism)
Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project (World            U             S (GO)
Bank/UNDP/GEF/Gov. of Honduras)
Social Investment Fund (Gov. of Honduras/World Bank)
Honduras Natural Disaster Mitigation
CCAD MBC Imp. Communications Strategy (IDF re-
gional)
Costa Rica Biodiversity                                  HS              HS
Costa Rica Ecomarkets
National Environmental Management Project
Nicaragua Atlantic Biodiversity Corridor                  S           HS (GO)
Panama Mesoamerican Biological Corridor                   S            S (GO)
Other          Regional Project for the Conservation of the Mesoameri-
development   can Biological Cooridor (UNDP/GEF; CCAD))
agencies
Conservation of the Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef
Ecoregion (WWF)
PROARCA COSTAS (Co-financed between USAID and
the Nature Conservancy (TNC), WWF, University of
Rhode Island/Coastal Resources Center (URI/CRC)
Caribbean Coastal Marine Productivity Program
(CARICOMP)
Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network (GCRMN) (In-
tergovermnental Oceanographic Commis-
sion/Subcommission for the Caribbean)
Quintana Roo Integrated Coastal Zone Management
Project (Amigos de Sian Ka'an, University of Quintana
Roo; USAID)
Conservation of the Barrier Reef Complex of Belize
(Coastal Zone Management Authority and Institute,
UNDP/GEF)
Trinational Alliance for Conservation of the Gulf of
Honduras (PROARCAICOSTAS)
Bay Islands Natural Resources Management Project
(Honduran Institute of Tourism, IDB)
Secondary Cities Project (Gov. of Honduras/IADB)
Laughing Bird Caye National Park (GEF)
Slackchwe Habitat Enhancement Project (GEF)
Land Administration Project # 1 and #2 in Belize (IDB)
_  Sustainable Tourism Strategy for Belize (IDB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HlU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
17



Of direct importance to the current MBRS Program are several regional and national initiatives deal-
ing with the MBRS and with natural resources management in the western Caribbean (a comprehen-
sive list of regional projects is listed in Annex 13, Matrix 3). Activities totaling US$40 million re ated
to coastal and marine resources management are currently ongoing in the region, and others are in
preparation. Still others, such as the regional UNDP/GEF project for consolidation of the MBC teing
implemented by CCAD, and the complementary suite of national MBC projects (including corridor
projects in Mexico, Honduras and Belize) under implementation with GEF, Bank, UNDP and UEP
support, focus on terrestrial biodiversity conservation, but with potential downstream linkages to
coastal and offshore processes. CCAD's role as implementing agency for both the terrestrial and ma-
rine regional programs to consolidate the MBC will ensure in-house coordination between the two,
realize efficiencies in project implementation and reporting/outreach, and maximize policy objectives
under the two programs where they are mutually reinforcing.
At the regional level, the coastal resources management component of the regional environmental
project for Central America, PROARCA-COSTAS, is co-financed by USAID with matching funds
provided by international NGOs: The Nature Conservancy (TNC), World Wide Fund for Nr,ture
(WWF) and the University of Rhode Island/Coastal Resources Center (URI/CRC). The Project ,up-
ports capacity building and empowerment of local communities in the development of strategies for
the sustainable use of coastal resources focusing on pilot areas in Belize, Guatemala and Honduras.
WWF's regional initiative, Conservation of the Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef Ecoregion, is b ing
designed in coordination with the GEF MBRS Project, and is intimately linked to the Phase 1 Prolect.
It focuses on biological assessment of the MBRS region, mapping and determining priority inter'en-
tions to address root causes of resource degradation from a biodiversity conservation perspective.
There are numerous ongoing international and regional programs providing technical assistanc- in
coastal resources assessment, monitoring and capacity building. These include the Caribbean Com stal
Marine Productivity Program (CARICOMP) and the UNEP-coordinated Caribbean Environment Pro-
gram (CEP). Also, the Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network (GCRMN), operating through its Car-
ibbean sub-node, is supported by various international and regional organizations with local coral reef
monitoring carried out with government and NGO staffs in all four MBRS countries. The Intergov-
ernmental Oceanographic Commission/Subcommission for the Caribbean is coordinating support to
countries in the wider Caribbean region to ratify and adopt actions under the protocols of the Carta-
gena Convention; it supports scientific research, training and monitoring of oceanographic, fisheries
and biological diversity parameters. There are also various projects under preparation with finaneing
from, inter a/ia, the GEF, IDB, UNDP, GTZ, USAID, DANID)A, and other bi- and multilateral; in
support of conservation of coastal and marine resources. There is currently a GEF Block B proposal
being prepared by the IDB, with the Bank as implementing agency, to address maritime pollution and
other port related environmental issues in the Gulf of Honduras. Port and ship based pollution wvere
identified as major threats to the MBRS in the Threat and Root Cause Analysis.
At the national level, several projects stand out due to their direct relevance to the MBRS. Among
these, the Conservation of the Barrier Reef Complex of Belize (Coastal Zone Management Authority
and Institute, UNDP/GEF) has provided a strong foundation for Integrated Coastal Zone Managetr ent
in Belize, an essential component of any long-term strategy to conserve the Belize Barrier Reef, a
major constituent of the MBRS. The WB/GEF Regional Project builds on the national project is a
critical baseline for addressing transboundary issues related to the sustainability of the MBRS on Be-
lize's northern and southern frontiers. These include the identification and monitoring of non-point
source pollution from the Rio Hondo into the Bay of Chetumal and similar run-off and water quality
issues in the Gulf of Honduras in the tri-national border between Belize, Guatemala and Hondura,-
issues that the national project cannot address in isolation.
18



The regional project also provides support for the establishment of bi- and tri-national protected areas
in these transboundary areas, building on the existing national MPAs in Belize, to increase capacity
for management of upstream/downstream impacts and ecological connectivity between adjacent ele-
ments of the same larger ecosystems. Bi- and tri-national MPA working groups will be established in
these areas to ensure coordination in the development and implementation of strategic management
plans that are consistent with principles of transboundary management and are harmonized in terms of
regulations and enforcement. Strategic support for protected area management planning of MPAs lo-
cated outside the transboundary areas in Belize will target those MPAs that do not have long-term
strategic management plans or operational plans. MPA management training and TA in coral reef
monitoring will be provided on a regional basis to countries in the MBRS according to assessed needs.
Similarly, the regional Coral Reef Monitoring and EIS to be established under the MBRS Project will
build on existing data bases, mapping and GIS capacity that currently exist within Belize, as deter-
mined through extensive analysis carried out during Project preparation.
Coordination with UNDP and synergies between the national and regional initiatives will be ensured
by close technical cooperation between the implementing agencies and joint representation on Project
Advisory Committees. This is further reinforced by virtue of the Director of the Executing Agency
(the ICZM Authority) for the UNDP/GEF Project also serving as Belize's National Coordinator of the
MBRS GEF Regional Project. The PCU for the WB/GEF MBRS project and PIU for the UNDP/GEF
Project will be housed in the same building that will house the Coastal Zone Management Authority
and Institute and Caribbean Fisheries Resource Assessment and Management Project (CFRAMP) on
the grounds of the Department of Fisheries in Belize City.
Another important national initiative in Mexico involves the southern Quintana Roo Integrated Coastal
Zone Management Project (Amigos de Sian Ka'an, University of Quintana Roo, USAID). This Project
has resulted recently in the successful designation of Xcalak Marine Park in the northern trans-
boundary area between the state of Quintana Roo, Mexico and northern Belize. This is one of the fif-
teen MPAs that will be strengthened under the GEF MBRS Project through design of protected area
management plans and training.
Other initiatives contributing to implementation of the MBRS Action Plan include the Trinational Al-
liance for Conservation of the Gulf of Honduras (currently developing new project initiatives) sup-
ported by PROARCA/COSTAS, and several small projects related to protected area management of
both coastal and near-coastal protected areas, supported by local and international NGOs, private enti-
ties, national and state governments, bilaterals and IFIs. Two projects in Honduras, the Bay Islands
Natural Resources Management Project, a US$24 million project to protect the terrestrial and marine
environment of the Bays Islands, being implemented by the Honduran Institute of Tourism (IHT) with
financing from IDB, and the Honduras Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project (a World Bank/IDA fi-
nanced LIL being prepared in parallel with the MBRS GEF project), are baseline and related co-
financing activities designed to support marine protected area management and sustainable tourism in
this portion of the MBRS. Opportunities exist to link another Bank financed project in Honduras, Dis-
aster Mitigation, and its early warning system, with the environmental monitoring and regional EIS
being established for the MBRS under component 2.
A major challenge for countries and partners in the region will be to organize these and future efforts
into a comprehensive framework that supports implementation of the Action Plan for Conservation
and Sustainable Use of the MBRS. The Threat and Root Cause Analysis prepared under this Project
provides a useful reference point and tool for such an approach. Members from the international and
NGO communities, and possibly the private sector will form a Consultative Group to liaise with other
donors and to secure and consolidate investments in the MBRS that address priority needs and re-
source gaps over the course of the 15 year Program.
19



3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed Project design:
Experience with regional seas programs elsewhere has taught that creating a common stake in ti- e fu-
ture of a shared resource and a sense of ownership in the management process is essential 1.c the
sustainability of any collaborative effort. Gaining the commitment of stakeholders to regional :oop-
eration to solve system-wide, transboundary issues requires consultation and consensus and a reaf-
firmation of the benefits of regionalism vs. a more fragmented, nationalist approach. This in turn re-
quires public awareness and dialogue to create a strong constituency for the harmonization of pa licies
and enforcement of legislation that will sustain such a regional approach. Aligned with this muLst be
adequate resources to absorb the incremental costs of conservation and economic tradeoffs in ti'e in-
terests of the regional, public good. The current Project has been designed with significant consulta-
tion at the policy and technical levels. An ongoing social assessment will help ensure ownership at the
local level for actions that will generate conservation and socio-economic benefits to local cominiuni-
ties. Continuous policy dialogue will be an important element of the regional Project and program.
Implementation of Phase I by CCAD will promote cross-country dialogue on MBRS issues of re-
gional importance, and help elevate policy concerns to the highest political levels. CCAD's irnple-
mentation of the complementary regional MBC project with assistance from the GEF and UNDI' will
promote integration between terrestrial and coastal/marine objectives to safeguard the MBC, and har-
monization of sectoral policies (e.g., in agriculture, water, tourism and infrastructure) among, the
countries concerned to support these objectives.
Another important lesson learned from natural resource and environmental projects around the world
is that these are necessarily long-term efforts, requiring sustained commitments of political wil and
resources. This is even truer of regional initiatives, whose scope and implementation are more com-
plex and thus require more time to achieve stated goals. Bearing this in mind, the current Project has
been designed as part of a 15 year Program. A phased approach will allow for steady progress toward
realistic objectives in the near to medium term, building toward achievement of program goals in the
longer term. A commitment in principle to the longer-term goals and the resources required to achieve
them, based on interim performance and outcomes, should create the incentives for success at each
stage. This in turn should attract more resources from partners and other potential donors, and a 1etter
integration of investments in the region, reinforcing the success of the long-term effort.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership:
The program aims to build on the foundation established in June 1997, through the Tulum Declaration,
in which the Presidents of Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras and the Prime Minister of B.-lize
publicly affirmed the global biological, economic and cultural importance of this shared resourc.e to
their nations' future. At the same time, they acknowledged serious threats to the sustainability of this
unique system, and the urgent need to initiate actions to counteract them. The four leaders comm itted
themselves to initiate a process of active collaboration in the preparation and implementation (of an
Action Plan for Conservation of the MBRS.
The Plan was endorsed by the four countries in June 1999, and GEF PDF support for the preparation
of a program to implement regional elements of the Action Plan was successfully leveraged at a ratio
of nearly 3:1. Reaffirmation of the Action Plan and commitment to the Tulum Declaration was
witnessed at two recent ministerial level events that took place in March and April 2000. Both were
held in Tulum, to commemorate the initial event: the Gift to the Earth ceremony sponsored by WWF,
in which the four countries pledged their support to protect the MBRS, and the third MBRS regional
consultation to review Project preparation under the current Bank/GEF initiative. Both resulted in the
necessary political commitment and counterpart financing to undertake a regional Project of this
complexity.
20



The four countries are also signatories to a number of key conventions at the regional and global level.
These legal agreements will be used as the basis for harmonization of policies and legislation required
to implement a region-wide plan for the conservation of a unique transboundary ecosystem, and for
the equitable and sustainable use of its resources. Support for these legal agreements includes the fol-
lowing: Belize ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) on December 30, 1993, and is a
signatory to CITES, the Convention on the Law of the Sea, Convention on the Prevention of Marine
Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter (London Convention 1972) and the International
Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78). Guatemala ratified the
Convention on Biological Diversity on July 10, 1995, and is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention,
CITES, Law of the Sea, and London Convention 1972. Honduras ratified the Convention on Biologi-
cal Diversity on July 31, 1995, and is a signatory to Ramsar, CITES, Law of the Sea, and London
1972. Mexico ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity on March 11, 1993. In May 1996, the
Government of Mexico published its program on Natural Protected Areas 1995-2000, outlining a
strategy and action plan for effective protected area management.
5. Value added of Bank and global support in this Project:
The GEF's role in this Project is essential. The majority of issues being addressed under this Project
are transboundary in character, thus the incremental cost aspects can only be adequately addressed
through grant support.
The World Bank brings to this Project its considerable capacity to address marine-related environ-
mental issues and its ability to convene governments around issues of common concern. The Bank has
extensive experience in the design and implementation of regional seas programs around the world,
and has been a long-standing member and active supporter of the International Coral Reef Initiative,
with a growing portfolio of coral reef related operations currently valued at nearly US$ 100 million.
More specifically, the Bank, through an IDA credit to the Government of Honduras, is considering
investing in baseline costs related to the establishment of a framework for sustainable tourism along
Honduras's northern Caribbean coast. This area includes the mainland coast from Puerto Cortez to
Trujillo and the offshore Bay Islands-the southeastern-most extension of the MBRS. The US$5.0
million credit is being designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), in parallel with the GEF
regional MBRS Project. The objectives of the LIL are to create an enabling environment-through
policy dialogue, capacity building at the municipal and local community level, and support for inno-
vative public-private partnerships-for the sustainable development of tourism within the coastal zone
of the MBRS. The Project would pilot the establishment of environment and tourism technical units
within each participating municipality to oversee environmental assessment requirements in relation to
tourism development proposals; specialized training in tourism related services to local stakeholder
groups; dissemination of best practice in the coastal tourism industry and a regional environmental
certification program to encourage its adoption; and an innovation marketplace to promote new ideas
and opportunities for small-to-medium enterprise development in the coastal tourism sector. These
activities are being designed to serve as demonstrations for sustainable tourism development in other
parts of the MBRS. Through its work with indigenous groups in the coastal zone, the LIL would also
inform the community based management activities under the MPA and sustainable use components
of the MBRS regional Project.
In addition to the IDA credit, the Bank has partnered extensively with the GEF in investments to con-
solidate and conserve the terrestrial portion of the MBC. The Bank has been successful in leveraging
additional financing for these investments from bilaterals, such as the Netherlands and the United
States, the EU, the IDB and from the countries involved. Together these investments form a critical
mass of support for regional cooperation in the conservation of globally important transboundary eco-
systems, and in building the capacity-institutional, financial and human-to achieve these objectives.
21



E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic (supported by Annex 41ncremental Cost):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; ERR= % [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Incremental Cost    [ ] Other
The IC Annex compares the baseline scenario with the GEF Alternative, identifying an incremental
cost of US$1 1.0 million to achieve global benefits.
2. Financial. NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Fiscal impact:
The anticipated fiscal impact of the Project on the participating countries is expected to be modest.
Counterpart contributions are largely in kind, in terms of staff, or one-time investments (in terms o f
construction of office space). The recurrent costs for fuel, equipment maintenance and some consun-
ables are already absorbed into the existing budgets of the implementing agencies, and should there-
fore prove manageable in the future.
In the case of MPAs, cost recovery schemes for management and monitoring activities will be inte
grated into the management and operational plans that are to be developed under Component I of the
Project (e.g., via user fees, permits, fines, trust funds). The allocation of staff for the four new MPA
sites to be supported under the Project will be absorbed under annual operating budgets of the agencies
involved and not pose a significant burden on central treasuries now or in the future.
3. Technical:
These include country level differences in capacity to manage resources and to assess the state of these
resources; differences in data collection methodologies which make comparisons across countries dif-
ficult; and communication difficulties in sharing information, compounded by language differences.
The Project would address data issues by developing and implementing agreed protocols for collec-
tion, processing and dissemination information.
To minimize language barriers, the regional Project coordinator would be completely bilingual in
Spanish and English, and all Project documents would be prepared in both languages.
4. Institutional: (see Annex 2)
To enhance coordination between countries at the regional level and to promote multi-sectoral partici-
pation at the national level, each country has established a National Barrier Reef Committee. These
committees are comprised of representatives of the concerned ministries, the NGO community, re-
search institutions and the private sector. They serve as a clearinghouse for information on programs
and policies affecting the MBRS in each country. A National Coordinator has been selected from each
of the country committees to serve as the principal liaison with the Project preparation team in the de-
sign and implementation of Phase I of the GEF regional program. Regional Technical Working
Groups will be established under each Project component, drawn from the ranks of the National 13ar-
rier Reef Committees in each country.
22



4.1. Executing agencies:
CCAD, which is comprised of the Council of Ministers of the Environment in Central America, with
Mexico as an observer, will serve as implementing agency, operating through its secretariat, the Di-
rectorate General for Environment (DIGEMA) of the System for Central American Integration
(SICA), based in San Salvador.
4.2. Project management: (see Figure I below)
The main institutional issues to be addressed are: (i) no established precedent for regional collabora-
tion in addressing environmental issues, apart from the efforts of CCAD; and (ii) inconsistencies and
gaps in national legislation related to coastal and marine resource use among the four countries, which
are obstacles to implementation of regional management regimes to safeguard the health of the
MBRS. The Project would support measures to harmonize policies and regulations in line with best
practice and agreed principles for conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS. Initially, harmoni-
zation would focus on normalizing regulations related to establishment and enforcement of MPAs, and
on the fisheries and tourism sectors, setting and enforcing standards for coastal water quality, tourism
zoning and environmental impact assessment.
[Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Project
Organizational Structure of the Project
C.C.A.D. Ministers &
Mexico
Regional Steering                         D.G.M.A.
Committee                ,
Project Coordination Unit
Technical Advisory
Committee
Consultative Group
National Barrier Reef Committees
Technical Working Groups  |            --           _
Governments             Non-Governmental              Consultants               Universities
Organizations
23



4.3 Procurement issues
A CPAR for Belize, the country where procurement actions will take place, is not available.
The PCU, which will be based in Belize City, is in the process of being established, and a director,
accountant and procurement officer have been hired. Additional staff, including an administrative as-
sitant to help with document filing and monitoring of procurement actions, will also be hired. A third
party, UNDP, will be contracted to assist the PCU with international procurement, local procurement
and oversight of minor civil works in Mexico, Honduras, and Guatemala, and with the management
and disbursement of Project funds (see Annex 6). UNDP/Belize will be equipped with the requisite
procurement staff to carry out these functions. Technical assistance and training of procurement staff
in both UNDP/Belize and in the MBRS PCU will be undertaken by UNDP/EI Salvador to ensure ihat
capacity in international procurement is built within the Project Coordination Unit.. PCU staff wil
also be trained in Bank procurement and reporting procedures to ensure that project demands are rnet.
A Procurement and Contract Management System will be set up for PMR reporting.
A Procurement Plan for goods, works and consultant services for the life of the Project has been p -e-
pared. (see Annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management System: The PCU will maintain an adequate financial management system,
compatible with Project Management Reporting (PMR) as required by the Bank under the Loan Ad-
ministration Change Initiative (LACI). The financial management system will include internal cortrol
systems, reliable records and report of Project assets, accounting, financial reporting, reconciliation of
the PCU's Project records with the GEF statements on disbursements of Project funds, monitoring of
physical progress of agreed Project indicators, procurement management, and auditing systems-to
ensure the provision of accurate and timely information to the World Bank regarding Project resou. rces
and expenditures, in accordance with: (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Hand-
book (World Bank, 1995); (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) and Bank Procedure (BP) 10.02
dated July 1996; and (iii) the revised Bank financial management standards to comply with OP and BP
10.02, dated August 1997. Project assistance for the establishment of the PCU will be provided. Thie
Government of Belize will provide in-kind office support.
A World Bank accredited financial management consultant performed a financial management as-
sessment of the Project Preparation Unit in July 2000. At the time of the assessment, a financial nan-
agement system had not been implemented. Guidelines and technical assistance were provided to the
PPU to ensure that an adequate financial management system, internal controls, monitoring systems,
and staffing of the Project Coordination Unit for the implementation phase will be in place to achieve
the certification of the project's financial management system PMR compliant, under the Bank's l oan
Administration Change Initiative (LAC). The action plan agreed upon includes key actions to: (a) de-
sign and implement a financial management system that meets PMR requirements; (b) hire the staff
for procurement and financial management; (c) develop administrative procedures; and (d) hiring of
external auditors. It was agreed that a PRM compatible, Financial Management System (FMS) ac-
ceptable to the Bank would be operational prior to project effectiveness.
Reporting and Audits: The PCU will produce PMRs on a quarterly basis. These reports will be pre-
pared 45 days after the end of each quarter. In addition, annual financial statements (to be included in
the audit report) will be required. The fiscal year of the Project will match PCU's fiscal year. In addi-
24



tion to submission of quarterly PMRs, the PCU will contract an independent public accounting firm,
prior to the beginning of the fiscal year to be audited.
Flow of Funds/Disbursement: CCAD has decided to contract the services of UNDP as the disburse-
ment agent, who will be in charge of channeling the GEF grant funds and making the payments for
Project disbursements, with the requests and approvals from the PCU in Belize. The PCU will be re-
sponsible for preparing withdrawal applications and the related SOEs, or PMRs, as applicable, with
funds being channeled through a third party agent (see Annex 6).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: The Project will be guided by bi-annual reviews of results, on
which basis CCAD and the World Bank supervision mission will identify specific measures to: (i) ad-
dress any areas of implementation weaknesses; and (ii) accommodate changes in priorities. These
measures for improvement will be reflected in the PCU proposal for the forthcoming year's Project
budget.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and environmental management
plan (EMP) preparation (including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their
treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Environmental Assessment (EA) was based in large part on the Threat and Root Cause Analysis
and Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (TBDA) prepared in the early stages of Project design. Be-
cause the Project is designed to address many of the fundamental threats to the ecological health of the
MBRS, as identified in the TRCA and TBDA, negative environmental impacts are expected to be few
and minor. In light of the Project's objectives to conserve the integrity and continued productivity of
the MBRS, and to promote opportunities for its sustainable use, stakeholders consulted in the prepara-
tion of the EA were of the opinion that the MBRS Project would have important overall positive envi-
ronmental and social impacts for the MBRS region. The Project will make important contributions to
the body of knowledge concerning the status of the MBRS and its resources, and the real and potential
negative impacts of anthropogenic activities as these are manifested on its habitats and resources. The
Project seeks synergistic linkages with ongoing and future local, national and, regional initiatives
dealing with conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS. It would achieve this by promoting a re-
gional view of ecosystem boundaries and issues, a long-term program of investment and monitoring,
and mechanisms for regional coordination in program design and implementation.
The Category B rating reflects the potential for some negative environmental impacts associated with
minor civil works in the construction of MPA infrastructure. To mitigate these risks, environmental
management guidelines for construction of minor civil works associated with MPA infrastructure will
be prepared by the Natural Resources Management Specialist within the Regional PCU, and applied
prior to the contracting of civil works .. These guidelines will be incorporated into the design specifi-
cations for the civil works. Their execution will be supervised by MPA management staff and com-
pliance monitored by the PCU.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP are implementation of a simple environmental impact assessment pro-
cedure to mitigate the impacts of minor civil works associated with construction of MPA infrastruc-
ture. General guidelines and an annotated checklist (Ficha Ambiental) will be prepared by the PCU
Natural Resources Management Specialist, for the siting and design of each structure. This checklist
should be applied in the field by personnel of each respective MPA, or the organization charged with
25



management of the MPA. MPA personnel will be trained in the use of the checklist in a tw -day
workshop to be organized by the Specialist, who will then also monitor compliance with the Ilroce-
dure. The procedure should be compliant with any and all applicable regulations and norms in each of
the respective countries as may be stipulated in local or national laws and codes. As approprial . the
procedure and checklist should be adapted to local environmental and socioeconomic conditions.
5.3 For Category A and B projects
Timeline and status of EA:           Completed March 16, 2000
Date of receipt of final draft:      March 16, 2000
T'ranslation of Document into Spanish:    July 2000
.5. 4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) drafi
EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? De, cribe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and vwhich groups were consulted?
Regional workshops involving a broad range of stakeholders and representatives from all four -oun-
tries served as discussion fora for the EA and overall Project design throughout Project preparition.
National and local level workshops carried out during preparation of the TRCA and TBDA aVo in-
formed the EA process. Once completed, the EA was circulated in Spanish and in English to Na ional
Coordinators of the Project in the four participating countries. These were then distributed to th. Na-
tional Barrier Reef Committees in each country for dissemination to other stakeholders and in erest
groups.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project c t the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The PCU Natural Resources Management Specialist will be responsible for monitoring compliance
with the EMP. Project audits will also serve to evaluate compliance with the mitigation guideline; and
environmental impact assessment checklist.
26



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social de-
velopment outcomes.
The key social issues identified in the Social Assessment:
*  Decline in traditional economic activities, e.g., fisheries and agriculture, due to inappropriate land
use, increasing urbanization and tourism development
*  Environmental degradation due to inadequate environmental management (affecting water qual-
ity/fisheries productivity and land productivity) associated with uncontrolled human settlements,
urbanization and tourism development along the coast
*  Lack of education and information about environmental issues, cultural values and history of the
region's ethnic (leads to low awareness about the importance of the environment and limits the
possibilities for alternative employment)
*  Concern over the brand of tourism developing along major sections of the MBRS coast (mass
tourism, culturally and economically inequitable, and environmentally unsustainable)
*  Along with insecure land tenure this creates uncertainty about benefits of tourism development
that would accrue to local and economically disadvantage populations
* Strong desire for alternative income generating opportunities, especially in ecotourism and fisher-
ies value-added industries
*  Discrimination against women in nearly all aspects of economic activity, and to a large degree
social activity.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The main Project stakeholders and beneficiaries are: (a) the governments of Mexico, Belize, Guate-
mala and Honduras, including national, departmental and municipal authorities; (b) local communities,
including indigenous and ethnic groups inhabiting the coastal fringe, their organizations and tradi-
tional leaders; (c) non-governmental environmental organizations; (d) international and regional or-
ganizations; (e) the scientific community; and (f) private entrepreneurs, (g) the donor community (bi-
laterals and multi-laterals, IFIs).
Consultations with stakeholders representing all these groups were carried out through a series of re-
gional and national workshops and via local level meetings throughout Project preparation. Work-
shops permitted interchange of ideas and interests concerning the values placed on MBRS resources
and current economic and cultural uses. Wide participation of stakeholders in work groups and plenary
sessions enriched the design process and helped focus regional priorities. Extensive consultations with
local communities were carried out during the Social Assessment. These included field visits, surveys
and open-ended interviews with representatives from all key ethnic and indigenous groups in the four
participating countries, and focus groups and discussions with local experts (see Methodology in the
Social Assessment, Annex 12). A matrix of activities designed to address issues specific to these
groups and to be supported by the Project is presented in the Indigenous People's Participation and
Development Plan of the Social Assessment (see Executive Summary of the Social Assessment, An-
nex 12).
Participation by all key stakeholders in project implementation and monitoring will be assured by the
following institutional arrangements:
27



(i) National Barrier Reef Committees: These committees are comprised of representatives of the con-
cerned ministries, the NGO community, research institutions and the private sector. The Project will
promote representation by ethnic groups and women on these committees to ensure the broadest iiclu-
sion of stakeholders at the national and local levels;
(ii) Technical Working Groups: Technical working groups allied with particular themes to be ad-
dressed under the Project will be set up during Project implementation. These working groups w[ll be
structured to ensure participation of specialized sectors and affected groups in the design of annual
work programs incorporating activities under these project components and transparency in the p 'roc-
ess of implementation;
(iii) Regional Steering Committee: This will be comprised of the Executive Secretary of CCAD3 (ir his
delegate, and the National Coordinators of each of the four National Barrier Reef Committees. The
committee will also include a panel of ex-officio members representing donor organizations and 3art-
ner institutions working in the region on issues related to MBRS Program objectives (see Secti3n 4
above on Institutional Issues and Annex 2 on Project Management Arrangements).
6 3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil societ X or-
ganizations?
The Project includes consultative bodies in its management structure and implementation arrange-
ments. NGOs and other civil society organizations are not only involved through these administrative
committees and technical working groups, but may also participate as executing agents during Project
implementation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social de-
velopment outcomes?
The results of the Social Assessment are being disseminated in consultations with the National Barrier
Reef Committees in each country and through local channels to promote broad ownership of the re-
sults. An adequate budget has been allocated to finance implementation of the Indigenous Peoples'
Participation and Development Plan (US$2.8 million). A Social Scientist will be hired as a membe r of
the Project Coordination Unit, responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Project. One o the
roles of the Social Scientist will be to liaise with representatives of local communities and stakeh lder
interest groups, particularly indigenous groups, to ensure that their voices are heard in the cour.e of
Project implementation and that benefits and information are being channeled to target gr )ups
Through the Regional Steering Committee and the National Barrier Reef Committees, the PCU can
bring issues and concerns to the attention of decision-makers at the country level if they cannot be
adequately addressed locally.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Participation in Project decision-making and implementation by key stakeholders will be achi ved
through the institutional arrangements described above in 6.2. Regular monitoring of Project Perfirm-
ance Indicators by PCU staff, supervision missions and annual evaluations during meetings ol the
RSC and the Regional TWGs will provide ongoing assessment of Project progress in achieving spe-
cific development outcomes.
3 IThe Executive Director of the CCAD also acts as the Director General of the General Environmental Directorate (Direcci6n
General de Medio Ambiente, DGMA) of the Secretariat of Central American Integration (Sistema de Integraci6n Cen-
troamericana- SfCA). headquartered in El Salvador.
28



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of thefollowing safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                                  Applicability (yes or
no)
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            Y
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    Y
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     N
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       N
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   N
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    Y
Involuntary Resettlement (OD. 4.3)                           Possibly
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               N
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    N
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          N
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An EA was carried out during Project preparation. Recommendations as to how to mitigate any poten-
tial adverse impacts from the Project, related primarily to small-scale infrastructure for MPAs, are pre-
sented in the form of an Environmental Management Plan, including preparation of guidelines for
siting of construction and operation of MPA infrastructure. These have been incorporated into the
Project design.
A Social Assessment, involving extensive consultations, was carried out during Project preparation.
The results and recommendations have been incorporated into an Indigenous People's Participation
and Development Plan, which will be implemented under the Project (see Section E 6 above.)
In the event that OD 4.3 on Involuntary Resettlement is invoked in the context of economic displace-
ment resulting from restricted access to fishing grounds incorporated into fishery reserves Marine
Protected Areas, a process framework to mitigate the impacts of such displacement, has been devel-
oped (Annex 16). The process framework is tied closely to the development of Management Plans for
each of the MPAs to be supported under the Project as the basis for community participation in the
design of the resource management regime, establishment of eligibility of affected parties for compen-
sastion under the safeguard policy, and options for such compensation. The latter could include access
to alternative fishing grounds, support for alternative livelihoods in aquaculture, fisheries processing
or other value added techniques, eco-tourism, marine protected area interpretation and enforcement,
and training under the sustainable use component of the project.
Protection of natural habitats and international waters are key objectives of this regional Project for
conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS. The Project is designed to enhance capacity for better
protection of ecologically sensitive and globally important marine ecosystems, through the establish-
ment of MPAs in priority sites set aside for conservation, and through the introduction of tools, in-
cluding technical (information systems, environmental education and monitoring) and policy and
regulatory measures, to improve the management of these systems. With assistance from the Policy
Working Group and intervention by the Council of Environment Ministers who comprise the CCAD,
legal and policy reforms to ensure compliance with international Conventions to which all four coun-
tries are party, and the harmonization of regulatory frameworks affecting transboundary resources,
will be promoted.
29



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability in the context of this Project must be defined in terms of both (i) ecological
sustainability-that is maintaining the biological communities and ecological processes that comprise
the MBRS and are responsible for the goods and services it produces; and (ii) program
sustainability-establishing the institutional arrangements, financial commitments, and economic and
social incentives to maintain a strategic set of well coordinated activities that will create the conditions
for the first. The Project design recognizes the need to account for interconnectedness of ecological
processes and environmental impacts within the MBRS, many of which are transboundary in nature
(i.e., cross political frontiers) or are the result of development activities upstream (within national
boundaries). To do this requires comprehension of the system's true boundaries, the forces thal drive
the system (e.g., recruitment, predation, competition, nutrient cycling, and physical factors including
climate, temperature and pH), and how they operate to keep the system intact. This is the role of sci-
ence-of research and monitoring, and of information dissemination.
Related to this is the interpretation of relevant information for the public and for decision-maker ,. Ex-
change of information and public debate is essential to creating a constituency for the political and
financial support, and the economic and social tradeoffs in some cases, that will be required to iniitiate
and sustain conservation efforts over time. This is a major focus of the current Project.
In the case of transboundary aquatic systems like the MBRS, sustaining measures to conserve it:, eco-
logical values and economic productivity will depend on regional cooperation in adopting an e. osys-
tem perspective that transcends both national interests and geographic frontiers. Traditionally. such
international cooperation is rare, despite a shared stake in the future of the resources among riparians,
and the economic and ecological implications of failure to do so in the long term. A similar patnern is
usually evident among the array of donors in a region, whose interventions are targeted but generally
fragmented in terms of coordination with one another and often not sustained over the long term.
The MBRS Program is designed to address the need for regionalism in the perspective of the countries
involved, and for coordination of activities within a long-term, strategic framework. The conce :t be-
hind the MBRS Program has been endorsed at the highest political levels, with the signing of the Tu-
lum Declaration be the presidents and prime minister of the four countries sharing the MBRS. S'ubse-
quent ministerial level endorsement by ministers of Finance and Environment during various stages of
Project preparation have reinforced these countries commitment to the objectives of the MBRS Action
Plan and the regional GEF Progra.
The first phase of the Program focuses on system-wide threats and interventions required to address
these. It will seek to facilitate coordination at the technical and policy levels among the four cou ntries
through establishment of the Regional Technical Working Groups and support for their operation.
Country counterpart contributions of staff to participate in Technical Working Groups, training, and
coordination of project activities at the national level, will help ensure that these activities arn sus-
tained beyond the life of project. Regional monitoring and information systems will help bind the
countries together through shared knowledge and provide the basis for informed policies and decision-
making at the regional level. Design of the regional EIS as a decentralized, Web-based System, housed
in the sponsoring institution of each country, has been developed with sustainability in mind. Alter-
native livelihood components involving recreational fisheries, diving, tourism and other small scale
enterprise, should be income generating and self sustaining by end of project.
Sustainability of interventions over the long term will be enhanced through human resource develop-
ment and institutional capacity building, and through the commitment of donors and stakeholders in
30



the region to a program rather than a project approach. Financial sustainability will be enhanced
through efforts to leverage GEF financing in Phase I toward new investments by co-financiers in
Phases 2 and 3, by expanding the partnership, identifying synergies and demonstrating technical and
financial efficiencies of scale. The MBRS Project has already attracted donor interest beyond that re-
flected in Project co-financing. The MBRS Regional Action Plan, developed as a result of the Tulum
Declaration, in consultation with governments, NGOs, donors, research institutions and other seg-
ments of civil society in the four countries, serves as a road map for the future. The MBRSP, in con-
junction with WWF, IUCN, TNC, CCAD and others, have successfully catalyzed the interests of these
groups into a momentum that is building at all levels--from regional to local. It is envisioned that once
the Phase 1 Project gets off the ground and early results demonstrated, there will be increased interest
on the part of donors and other players in the region to become a part of this effort. Systematic out-
reach and information campaigns are planned early in Phase 1, with help from WWF to help capture
this potential. A donor's consultative group with links to the broader MBC Program is also envisioned
as part of the governance structure of the Project. This would help line up future funding and coordi-
nate interest in specific actions in support of the Tulum Declaration and Action Plan under the MBRS
Program.
Cost recovery for training, MPA management, environmental information systems, environmental
certification and other fee-based services to be supported under the Project will be introduced at the
end of Phase 1, to promote continuity beyond the life of Project. Criteria for replicability and scaling
up of sustainable use activities in subsequent phases of the Program will include profitability, ease of
adoption and dissemination and demonstration value. With respect to recurrent costs for fuel, equip-
ment maintenance and some consumables, these in-kind contributions have already been absorbed into
the existing budgets of the implementing agencies, and should therefore prove manageable in the fu-
ture.
By institutionalizing policy reforms, increasing the collection and flow of information, strengthening
institutions and collaborating with a broad array of stakeholders, the MBRS Program will build a
strong base of support that is likely to transcend changes in administration and personnel, and help
ensure continuity in the commitment of partners and the flow of resources over the life of the Program.
31



2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                   Risk                   Risk Mitigation Measure
Ratine
Annex 1, 'from Outputs to Objective"
Commitment to regional approach for    M     All four countries have reiterated commitments to con ,erving
MBRS management undermined by                the MBRS, and to the necessary regional cooperation, at the
national interests.                          highest levels.
--CCAD's implementation of both the MBRS and the MIBC
regional projects will promote a regional view in the policy
context.
--Environmental education and public awareness campaigns
will build support for conservation of the ecosystem a. a
whole.
Coordination of activities at regional  S    Regional TWGs and workshops for each Project component
level difficult to operationalize on the     and theme will foster communication and good workirng rela-
ground. Weak institutional arrangements      tions across countries; PCU and national Project coordinators
for regional cooperation.                    ensure coordination in implementation of annual work plans.
--Program Technical Advisory Committee will interface with
other donors to coordinate activities, attract new partners and
consolidate investments in MBRS consistent with the Action
Plan and TRCA.
HEuman resources and capacity not uni-  S    Project aims to build capacity to a minimum uniform standard
form across countries-obstacle to col-       for MPA management, ecosystem monitoring, fisheries data
laboration and achievement of program        collection and management through training and joint research,
objectives.                                  fostering intra-regional and north-south partnerships between
technical institutions.
Annex 1, 'from Components to Outputs"
Establishment of MPAs in trans-        M     Development of 10 year Management plans and 2 year Opera-
boundary areas difficult, particularly       tional plans, along with resources for basic equipment and in-
enforcement.                                 frastructure to implement plans will facilitate MPA establish-
ment in T-BAs. Joint workshops and training for MPA staff in
T-BAs will foster collaboration in management, surveillance
and enforcement.
Economic displacement of traditional   N     A participatory process in the development of MPA m anage-
users occurs in the context of MPA           ment plans involving local advisory committees and a Process
strengthening                                Framework to mitigate economic displacement, shoulci it oc-
cur, will greatly reduce impacts associated with this.
Regional ecosystem monitoring and      S     Requirement of Government counterpart contribution of staff
information system difficult to sustain.     to participate in monitoring and maintain data base according
to agreed protocols; support for equipment, training and travel
tied to data collection and sharing.
Information collected is not interpreted  M  Substantial TA provided to set up robust monitoring system to
and made available to decision-makers,        detect trends in status of MBRS; applied research on physical
and general public.                          and biological factors (including human disturbance) affecting
overall health and productivity of MBRS supported through
co-financing and cooperative arrangements with MBRS part-
ners; data interpreted and made available to the public and
decision-makers.
Overall Risk Rating   S     The risk is significant but manageable.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects:
Harmonizing policies across sectors and across countries is an ambitious undertaking. Countries are
normally conservative about giving up exclusive sovereignty over resources they control. This may
32



prove problematic in trying to reach regional accords on fisheries management issues. However, all
countries have expressed their support for the FAO Code of Conduct on Straddling Stocks and Mi-
gratory Species and are signatories to the Cartagena Convention and its SPAW protocol on Species
Conservation. The Project will help articulate key policy issues in different sectors and facilitate dia-
logue on how to resolve these issues, as well as promote concrete steps toward policy harmonization,
through revising regulations, amending legislation, or drafting new laws where necessary to create
consistency across the four countries.
The Social Assessment has revealed issues at the local level related to urban and tourism development,
the decline of traditional livelihoods and insecure land tenure, as being of concern to indigenous
groups and other ethnic communities dependent on coastal resources. Some controversy also exists
over fishing grounds in transboundary areas between Mexico and Belize in the north and in the tri-
national border area in the Gulf of Honduras to the south. The absence of adequate governance ar-
rangements in these areas has resulted in poaching, which threatens international cooperation and
compliance with existing management structures. While policy and regulatory concerns can be taken
up at higher levels (e.g., inter-ministerial and steering committee/policy advisory groups, and bi- and
tri-national commissions to be supported under the Project), it will be necessary to set up conflict
management fora at the local level to deal with some of these issues The MPA component incorpo-
rates a provision for conflict management within the Management Planning process, and the Fisheries
TWG will promote a continuous dialogue between MBRS countries for join management of trans-
boundary fish stocks, and the possible establishment of international commissions for regional fisher-
ies management.
G: Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
There are seven conditions for Project Effectiveness: (a) that the Project Implementation Manual has
been issued and put into effect; (b) that the PCU has been established and is functional, with at least
the following personnel already hired and in place: the director, the account/finance officer, the pro-
curement officer, the natural resources management specialist and one administrative assistant; (c) that
the National Barrier Reef Committee in each country has been formally established and its composi-
tion documented through an official act or letter; (d) that the contract between CCAD and UNDP for
the latter to provide procurement and disbursement services to CCAD during Project implementation
has been entered into, and (e) that an adequate financial management system for the Project has been
implemented within the PCU which is acceptable to the World Bank. This would include procedures
for FMS operation and maintenance during project implementation (See Section C.4: Institutional and
Implementation Arrangements); (f).that a host country agreement has been entered into between Be-
lize and CCAD; and (g) that all requisite legal opinions on the Project's legal documentation have
been obtained. If, by project effectiveness, the PCU has not implemented a financial management
system with PMR capabilities, but one which meets minimum Bank requirements, the traditional dis-
bursement mechanisms (Statement of Expenditures, SOEs) will be used for the first two quarters of
Project implementation.
Many of these conditions for Project effectiveness are well advanced, including the hiring of PCU
staff and the preparation of the PIM. A contract to develop a financial management system acceptable
to the Bank is in place, and agreement on the basic elements of the contract between CCAD and
UNDP to provide procurement and disbursement services has been reached. A short list of auditors
acceptable to the Bank has been identified, and the formal documentation establishing the National
Barrier Reef Committees is under preparation in each country.
33



2. Other [classijfy according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H: Readiness for Implementation
1. (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities
are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
1. (b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of pro-
ject implementation.
Nearly completed.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
PIP ha&t1en completed. A Project Implepientation Manual has been completed.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
None.
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
>es     1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for ap-
proval. The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Marea Eleni 4atziolos             ohn Redwood                      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                   Country Manager
34



Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of           Key Performance           Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Objectives                Indicators              Evaluation
a. Sector-related CAS  Sector Indicators:          Sector/country reports  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:                   More rational use of coastal    National surveys, sec-   *  Other externalities do not
Reduced rural poverty   and marine resources to bal-   tor work in environ-  undermine social and eco-
and improved environ-    ance economic development    ment and social policy  nomic benefits from inte-
mental security through    and conservation needs.                            grated management of the
sustainable management                                                        coastal zone.
of natural resources.   Increased human and institu-
tional capacity for environ-
mental management.
b. GEF Operational      Maintenance of ecological   Regional Monitoring    *  Climate change related
Program:                integrity, resilience to natural   and EIS reports,   phenomena do not swamp
To enhance protection of  disturbance and continued  MBRS Atlas, and tar-     natural resilience of
ecologically unique and    productivity of MBRS.    geted research reports.   coastal and marine eco-
vulnerable marine eco-                                                        systems to moderate lev-
systems through intro-                                                        els of stress and periodic
duction of an ecosystem                                                       disturbance nor generate
approach to conservation                                                      unanticipated social re-
and sustainable use.        __     ___    _____                        _      sponse.
Global Objective       OutcomeAmpact Indicators    Project reports       (Objective to Goal)
To assist the countries of  * Biological representation    (a) Annual reports of   *  National interests do not
Belize, Guatemala, Hon-   and ecological intercon-     CCAD,                  undermine incentives for
duras and Mexico to       nectivity maintained in      SEMERNAP              regional approaches to
manage the MBRS as a      coastal and marine eco-      (MX), CZMA-I           management of trans-
shared, regional ecosys-  systems throughout MBRS.     (BZ), CONAMA/          boundary sys-
tem; safeguard its biodi-   * Ecoregional approach to  Secretariat on the     tems/resources.
versity values and func-  MBRS management incor-       Environment (GT),  *  CCAD is successful in
tional integrity; and cre-  porated into conservation  and SERNA (HN).       raising awareness of
ate a framework for its   planning at local, national   (b) Changes in poli-  MBRS policy issues and
sustainable use.          and regional levels.         cies or operating      in prioritizing harmoniza-
Steps towards harmoniza-    guidelines in rele-   tion of policies and legis-
tion of relevant policies    vant sectors (or in   lation on SICA agenda.
Global Objectives         and legislation regarding    standards and      *  Lack of precedents for
To enhance protection of  MPA management in            regulations, e.g.,    regional cooperation at the
the ecologically unique   transboundary areas, sus-    use of EIA and         technical level do not act
and vulnerable marine     tainable fisheries manage-   land use planning      as a barrier to creation of
ecosystems comprising     ment; sustainable tourism    governing resource     new institutional ar-
the MBRS by assisting     development; and protec-     use).                 rangements for such col-
riparian nations to       tion of coastal water qual-  (c) Surveys of donors,  laboration on the ground.
strengthen and coordinate    ity agreed and initiated in  multilateral proj-    *  Appropriate measures are
national policies, regula-  all four countries.        ects, and academia.    being implemented at lo-
tions, and institutional  * Fora for regional coopera-   (d) Investment trends  cal and national levels to
arrangements for the con-    tion at technical and policy  in tourism sector.  mitigate land-based
servation and sustainable    levels operational.   (e) Regional coastal      sources of pollution.
use of this global public                              development plans
good.                                                  (in Honduras, Be-
lize, and Mexico).



Hierrch  of            Key* Prfo I                WceM atwigau          pti#"Asmpin
Oatpfrmaccon   Oulpn hsiaAr                         Prroect; Reprt        (OwPutsto bJcdive)  
Regional network of     . MPA data baseline estab-   (a) Review of com-   *  There is sustained politi-
MPAs ensuring geo-        lished and monitoring pro-   pleted manage-        cal and budgetaiy com-
graphical and ecosystem   grams implemented by         ment plans.           mitment to management
representation established  PY4.                                              of MPAs.
and/or strengthened     * 10-year management plans  (b) Project bi-annual
throughout the MBRS.      developed for 4 MPAs by      reviews and super-
PY3.                         vision reports.
* 2-year operational
plans/updates developed    (c) Technical reports
for 15 MPAs by PY4.         of monitoring
* 160 persons trained in       activities
MPA management by PY5.
. Infrastructure and equip-    (d) Course evaluations
ment provided to two re-    completed by
gional MPA complexes by     trainees.
EOP
* Basic equipment provided
to 11 MPAs by EOP.
Increased knowledge and  .  Synoptic monitoring pro-   (a) Monitoring reports  .  Sufficient supply of tech-
dissemination of infor-    gram designed and under     and technical pa-     nical assistance special-
mation relating to coastal  implementation by PY2.     pers incorporated      ized in sustainable man-
and marine ecosystem   .  Web-based, distributed       into EIS.              agement of coasl:al and
health in the MBRS.        regional EIS established                           marine resources is avail-
and operational by PY3.    (b) Project bi-annual   able.
*  15 baseline reports on      reviews and super-  *  MBRS stakeholders are
MBRS ecosystem health       vision reports.       willing to harmcnize data
produced and disseminated                          access agreements for use
by PY5.                  (c) International ac-     of information in EIS.
. 32 persons trained in op-    cess to knowledge   .  Required counterpart
eration and management of   generated regard-      fanding is available on a
EIS by PY5.                 ing MBRS via          timely basis to support
. Basic equipment and infra-   Web-based EIS         participation of lechnical
structure provided to four                         working groups and
national nodes of EIS by                           maintaining EIS nodes.
PY2.
. Basic field monitoring
equipment provided to im-
plementing organizations
by PY2.



Hierarchy of            Key Performance           Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Objectives                Indicators               Evaluatio_
Increased opportunities    .  Formulation of draft re-    (a) Technical reports   *  Political will exists on the
for sustainable use of      gional strategy for man-    of fisheries moni-    part of national-level
coastal and marine re-      agement of spawning ag-     toring activities.    authorities to adopt a re-
sources developed.          gregation sites completed                         gional strategy for sus-
by PY5.                 (b) Review of draft       tainable fisheries man-
*   168 persons trained in     regional strategy.     agement.
sustainable fisheries man-
agement and alternative    (c) Project bi-annual
income-generating activi-  reviews and super-
ties by PY5.                vision reports.
* Catalogue of exemplary
practices for coastal and    (d) Course evaluations
marine tourism industry     completed by
developed by PY2.           trainees.
* Regional environmental
certification program de-   (e) Review of techni-
signed and implemented      cal reports relating
by PY5.                    to sustainable
.  Marine tourism exem-        tourism, including
plary practices study tour  catalogue of ex-
designed and executed for   emplary practices
"emerging" marine tour      and regional certi-
operators by PY2.           fication program.
*  Analysis of tools for vol-
untary compliance with
harmonized policies re-
lated to use of MBRS re-
sources
*  236 persons trained in
sustainable tourism-
related activities by PY5.
Increased public aware-    .  160 schoolteachers,   (a) Project bi-annual    .  Public sector and civil
ness of the importance of   community leaders, and      reviews and super-    society are committed to
and demand for the con-     business leaders trained in  vision reports.      incorporating project les-
servation of the MBRS at    MBRS concepts by PY5.  (b) Course evaluations      sons into broader initia-
regional and international  *  10,000 copies of training  completed by        tives for coastal resources
levels.                     materials distributed by    trainees.             management.
community leaders       (c) Stakeholder sur-    .  Management staff of re-
throughout MBRS by          veys.                 gional and national envi-
PY5.                                              ronmental authorities and
non-governmental
stakeholders within civil
society adopt good prac-
tice and lessons learned
through training.



Hierarchy of           Key Perfrmance            Monito    and          Critical Aumptions
Objectives          :       dietors                Ev6 alion
Increased regional coor-   *  1 MBRS Regional Steer-  (a) Project bi-annual    *  There is sustained politi-
dination and sustained     ing Committee, I Techni-    reviews and super-    cal commitment to MBRS
collaboration among        cal Advisory Committee      vision reports.       principles.
MBRS countries in man-     and 5 Technical Working                        *  MBRS Regiona' Steering
agement of a shared        Groups established and    (b) Minutes of meet-     Committee reaches con-
transboundary ecosystem    operational by PY2.         ings of Steering       sensus on annual work
*  Analysis of economic        Committee and         program design and im-
development scenarios in   technical commit-      plementation.
the region to inform Pro-  tees.              *  Appropriate expertise and
gram development and                              political authority is rep-
guide design of subse-  (c) Review of annual     resented on MBRS Re-
quent phases PY 2          work program.          gional Steering Commit-
*  Subset of policies in at                          tee and Technical Work-
least three critical areas of  (d) Project annual  ing Groups
shared MBRS resources       reviews           *  Other donors and partners
management (e.g., fish-                           agree to cooperar-e in de-
eries, tourism, MPA en-   (d) public records of   sign and implem 2ntation
forcement, water quality    laws and regula-      of activities with in long-
standards, EIA protocols,  tions in concerned     term programma:ic
etc.) harmonized by EOP     ministries            framework.
CCAD effectively inte-    *  CCAD regularly engages  (a) CCAD and SICA
grates regional eviron-    finance and other sectoral  Annual Reports
mental concerns into       ministries represented un-
SICA economic agenda       der SICA in development
dialogue
*  Regional environmental
concerns are reflected in
SICA's economic agenda
Project Coneonents/     Inpuft: (budgetfor each     Project eports          opnes to Output)
Sub-comptnwents: (see   cmponent)
Annex 2for descripton)  _
1. Marine Protected    US$5.0 million              (a) Annual and quar-   *  Required counterpart
Areas                                                  terly reports         funding is availahle on a
(b) Procurement rec-     timely basis.
ords              *  There is continued politi-
(c) Evaluation reports    cal support for regional
(d) Copies of con-        cooperation and national-
tracts                level implementation.
(e) Bank supervision    *  Civil society supports the
reports               principles behind and im-
(f) Field management     plementation of specific
reports               project activities
2. Regional Environ-    US$4.4 million                                    *  Competent staff is ap-
mental Information                                                            pointed and maintained to
System (EIS)                                                                  coordinate project activi-
ties on a timely basis.
3. Promotion of Sustain-   US$1.9 million                                 *  PCU has sufficient auton-
able Use of the MBRS                                                          omy and authorityX to im-
plement project activities.
4. Public Awareness and   US$1.5 million
Environmental Education
5. Regional Coordination   US$2.4 million
and Project Management



Annex 2
Page 1 of 18
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
OVERVIEW
I .    The Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS), extending from the southern half of the Yu-
catan Peninsula to the Bay Islands of Honduras, includes the second longest barrier reef in the
world. It is unique in the Western hemisphere due to its length, composition of reef types, and
diverse assemblage of corals and related species. The MBRS contributes to the stabilization
and protection of coastal landscapes, maintenance of coastal water quality, and serves as
breeding and feeding grounds for marine mammals, reptiles, fish and invertebrates, many of
which are of commercial importance. The MBRS is also of immense socio-economic signifi-
cance providing employment and a source of income to an estimated one million people living
in adjacent coastal areas.
2.    Despite its significance in both ecological and socio-economic terms, the MBRS is increas-
ingly at risk from a number of threats. The principal anthropogenic threats to the ecological
integrity and continued productivity of the MBRS include: dredging and construction activi-
ties related to the expanding coastal tourism industry; growing and unplanned human settle-
ments located along the coast and cays of the MBRS; and water-borne pollutants originating
from untreated wastewater, industrial effluent and non-point sources of pollution, the latter
principally in the form of agricultural runoff (see Map 1).
3.    Natural disturbances, associated with changes in regional and global oceanic and atmospheric
processes (which may be related to human induced climate change), also pose a growing
threat due to their increased frequency and amplitude. An intense El Nino episode in the fall of
1998 led to extensive bleaching of coral reefs, followed by massive damage to corals on ex-
posed portions of the MBRS as a result of Hurricane Mitch.
4.     Existing institutional arrangements in the region do not appear adequate to address many of
these threats. Institutional fragmentation at the national level is manifested in the sectoral ap-
proach to resource development (e.g., tourism, fisheries, agriculture, infrastructure). Such
sector-specific approaches not only fail to take into account linkages between sectors but have
been similarly ineffective in addressing upstream, downstream, and coastal resource use con-
flicts, often at significant environmental and social costs. The challenge to manage the MBRS
is complicated by the transboundary nature of the System and the lack of an effective mecha-
nism to facilitate the regional cooperation needed to achieve a comprehensive management
approach. Any effort that purports to tackle the existing threats to the MBRS and to promote
its future sustainable use, will have to address both the prevalent sector-based approach to
managing natural resources in the MBRS region and the establishment of an effective institu-
tional and policy framework which supports a regional approach to management of this glob-
ally-significant resource. The Program described below reflects the aforementioned needs and
the realities of the region and has attempted to address them through incorporating a realistic,
gradualist approach into its design, one which will lead to the conservation and sustainable use
of the MBRS.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 18
PROGRAM GOAL, OBJECTIVES, AND APPROACH
5.     The goal of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Project' is to enhance protection of th
unique and vulnerable marine ecosystems comprising the MBRS, and to assist the countries of
Mexico, Belize, Guatemala and Honduras to strengthen and coordinate national policies,
regulations, and institutional arrangements for the conservation and sustainable use of this
global public good. The Project is part of a long-term Program to safeguard the integrity and
continued productivity of the MBRS. The MBRS initiative is being actively promoted by a va-
riety of donors and partners in the region and within the context of the Mesoamerican Bio ogi-
cal Corridor Program.
6.     The regional objectives of the GEF/Bank supported MBRS Program, agreed to by the four
participating countries, are to: (a) strengthen Marine Protected Areas (MPAs); (b) develop and
implement a standardized data management system of ecosystem monitoring and facilitate the
dissemination of its outputs throughout the region; (c) promote measures which will serve to
reduce non-sustainable patterns of economic exploitation of MBRS, focusing initially on the
fisheries and tourism sectors; (d) increase local and national capacity for environmental man-
agement through education, information sharing and training; and (e) facilitate the strengtlh-
ening and coordinating of national policies, regulations, and institutional arrangements for ma-
rine ecosystem conservation and sustainable use.
7.     The MBRS Program objectives are ambitious, and institutionally complex. In light of this, a
gradualist approach was incorporated into Project design. The time frame was shifted from an
initial 5 year Project to a 15 year Program, to be implemented in three phases. The three
phased approach provides the opportunity to build and expand on successful activities init ated
in the first phase, leading to a scaling up of Project scope and impact over the life of the Pro-
gram.
8.    A second consideration involves the geographical focus of the Program. Because it is not pos-
sible to support the implementation of all component activities across an area as large as the
MBRS, a phasing of Project focal areas has also been adopted. In the initial phase, many of
the field-based interventions are concentrated in the MBRS's two transboundary areas:
Chetumal Bay (Mexico and Belize) and Gulf of Honduras (Belize, Guatemala, and Hondu -as).
However, activities such as capacity building and policy harmonization are designed to in-
clude the entire MBRS. Ecosystem monitoring and research, sustainable use, and MPA man-
agement initiatives have been designed to expand as needed in subsequent phases of the Pro-
gram. The Program has already attracted the support of other partners, like WWF, who have
pledged some $2.5 million over the next five years to implement complementary activities in
support of the MBRS Action Plan. With additional assistance from the Governments of the
Netherlands, U.S., Canada and the EU, the Program is poised to expand to other areas of iden-
tified need.
9.     Finally, achieving institutional change is a long-term proposition, particularly when it entails
strengthening and coordinating national policies, regulations, and institutional arrangemen-ts in
a four country region. As such, during the Program's initial phase, institutional and policy is-
sues are addressed through activities that are integrated into the other components, and wh ich
are designed to provide the basis for a broader and more in-depth treatment in the Programri's
subsequent phases. See Table 1 below.
I "The Project" refers to the Activities to be carried out during Phase I of a proposed 15 year Program for the Conservation
and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 18
Table 1. Proposed Activities for Policy Obectives under the Project
Selected Policy / Institu-  MBRS Program Action (s) Supported which Address the   Eventual Desired Institutional
tional Issues Addressed                       Issue                                  Outcome
by MEBRS Program
Absence of broad public  * MBRS public awareness campaign and information dis-   * Creation of an influential con-
and decision-maker sup-    semination                                       stituency among civil society and
port for the conservation  * Establishment of an information clearing house facilitating  the private sector to promote the
and sustainable manage-    public access to MBRS-related information        required institutional and policy
ment of the MBRS       * Updating of educational materials in primary and secon-    changes to conserve and sustain-
dary schools                                       ably manage the MBRS
* Dissemination of MBRS material to target groups through
workshops
* Provision of a forum for policy makers and MBRS
stakeholders to conduct a dialogue and develop consensus
on a agreed set of actions to promote sustainable use of the
MBRS (ecotourism and fisheries exploitation).
* Increasing public participation in MPA planning and man-
agement activities
Absence of a coordinated, * Establishment of a regional EIS supported by national data * Establishment of a reliable re-
regional approach to    nodes and procedures to share information and facilitate    gion-wide MBRS data base to
MBRS data collection,    increased public access to information on the signficance    support informed decision-
management, and dis-    and status of the MBRS                              making and promote the devel-
semination             * Developing a monitoring program which assesses the  opment of public consensus on
status and "health" of the MBRS                    regional actions in support of the
* Establishing a monitoring program of a regional network    conservation and sustainable
of MPAs to assess status and the effectiveness of man-  management of the MBRS
agement measures
Policy and institutional   * Develop the required technical basis to modify exist-  * Repeat and expand the process to
failures contributing to  ing/formulate new policies                       include other sector and multi-
non-sustainable resource  * Formulate and promote the adoption of new policy (on use  sector issues affecting the sus-
use practices           of fish aggregation sites, closed seasons, minimum sizes,   tainable use of the MBRS
fishing techniques and monitoring and surveillance)
* Establish an environmental certification program; support
exposure to examples of "best practices" in the MBRS re-
gion.
Absence of a regional    * Provision of support for achieving the effective manage-   * Creation of bi-national MPA
approach to the conserva-   ment of a minimal number of MPAs to ensure adequate  management commissions
tion of coastal and marine   representation of regional ecosystems and geographic cov- * Establishment of a Regional MPA
biodiversity of global   erage                                              System
importance             * Policy analysis in MPA plan preparation
* Development of financial modules in management plan
* Training of Customs Officials in the implementation of
CITES Regulations
Absence of a regional    * Promotion of regional TWG for MBRS components, in-   * Formalize regional coordination
institutional framework to   cluding a TWG dedicated specifically to Policy and  arrangements on sectoral lines
promote the formulation    Regulations                                    * Harmonization of sectoral-based
of policies, regulations,   * Support for bi-national and tri-national MPA consultative    policies affecting the MBRS
and an institutional ap-  meetings                                        * Improved policy formulation
proach to manage the                                                      * Achieving financial sustainability
MBRS as a comprehen-                                                        including attracting outside
sive system.                                                                sources of investment
PROGRAM COMPONENTS, PHASE 1
Component 1. Marine Protected Areas (US$5.0 million)
10.    Many of the MBRS's more than sixty existing and proposed coastal and marine protected ar-
eas exist only on paper and have little or no on-site management. Moreover, a significant



Annex 2
Page 4 of 18
number of MPAs lack up to date master and operational plans and the associated basic infi a-
structure and equipment needed for their implementation. This includes ranger stations, patrol
boats, interpretation infrastructure such as trails and signage, and computers and communica-
tions equipment. Of equal significance is the absence of sound financial strategies in most of
these areas, a prerequisite to achieving greater self-sufficiency and attracting additional out-
side investment. Finally, even in those areas that have on the ground management presenc
and the required infrastructure and equipment, staff often lack the skills needed to carry ou, t
their core responsibilities.
11.     Support under this component will be limited to a total of 15 MPAs (see Table 2 below),
eleven of which already have some legal protection, and four others which are in different
stages of the process leading to their legal creation (Map 2). Criteria for MPA selection wt re
based on the significance of the protected area with respect to contributing to MBRS ecosys-
tem characteristics, diversity and processes. The majority of the MPAs (9) are located in the
two transboundary areas of the MBRS, Chetumal Bay and the Gulf of Honduras, respectix ely.
In the transboundary areas themselves, there are several MPAs which are separated by na-
tional boundaries and are managed as separate units. Two of these bi-national MPA com-
plexes, (the Xcalak/Bacalar Chico, and Sarstoon-TemashlSarstun ) situated in the Mexico-
Belize and Belize-Guatemala transboundary areas respectively, will be assisted through the
Program with the additional objective of promoting a regional approach to their management.
Selection of the remaining MPAs, in addition to the aforementioned criteria, was made with
the intent to ensure a spatially dispersed pattern of protected areas loosely connecting the P ro-
gram's two transboundary areas (Map 1). By the end of the Program's first phase, this strategy
for MPA selection and support is expected to result in a minimally acceptable number and
geographic coverage of well managed MPAs in the MBRS region. These MPAs will serve as
regional models from which expansion and replication could occur to other protected areas in
the Program's future phases. The component consists of the following two sub-component,
Table 2. Marine and Coastal Protected Areas to be Support through the MBRS MPA Component
Protected Area    Predominant Ecosystems   Legal   Status of Planning Support to be Provided
___  Status
1   Banco Chinchorro      Seagrass, reef, cays    Existing   Management plan   OP, modest management
2    Santuario del Manati   Mangroves and seagrass   Existing   Management plan   OP, modest management
3    Corozal Bay          Mangroves and seagrass   Existing   No plan          MP/OP, modest managenient
4    Xcalak'              Seagrass, mangrove, reef  Existing   Plan being prepared3 Expand MP,OP, major management
5   Bacalar Chico'        Seagrass, mangrove, reef  Existing   Management plan   OP, major management
6    South Water Caye     Seagrass, mangrove, reef  Existing   Management plan   OP, modest management
7   Glover's Reef         Cays, reef, seagrass    Existing   Management plan   OP, modest management
8   Port Honduras         Cays, reef, seagrass    Existing   Plan being prepared  OP, modest management
9    Gladden Spit         Reef (spawning aggrega-  Existing   No plan          MP/OP, modest managen ent
_____              ~~~~~~tions)_________________________________
10  Sapodilla Cays        Reef, cays, seagrass    Existing   Management plan   OP, modest management
I   Sarstoon-Temash'      Mangroves and estuaries   Existing   No plan         MP/OP, major management
12   Sarstun              Mangroves and estuaries   Proposed  Plan being prepared  OP, major management
13  Punta de Manabique    Swamp forest, mangrove   Proposed  Plan being prepared  OP, modest management
14  Omoa-Baracoa          Coastal wetlands, man-    Proposed  No plan          MP/OP, modest managenment
oroves, swamD forests
I 5  Utila/Turtle Harbor  Swamp forest, reefs, sea-  Existing   Plan nearly finished4 Expand MP/OP, major mrnagement
I_grass, lagoons
I Consists of one of the two MPAs forming the MPA complex in the Bahia de Chetumal.
2 Consists of one of the two MPAs forming the MPA complex in the Golfo de Honduras.
3 Plan does not include the Bacalar Chico portion of the transboundary MPA.
4 Plan only covers Turtle Harbor.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 18
Sub-component A - Planning, Management, and Monitoring of Marine Protected Areas ($4.45 mil-
lion)
12.   The emphasis of the sub-component will be to support immediate improvements in MPA
protection and management while increasing the sustainability of management efforts. Spe-
cific activities include:
o  Establishment of MPA Data Baselines and Monitoring Programs. Rapid evaluations of basic
ecological and socio-economic factors and conditions, including legal and policy analyses and
land tenure issues, will be carried out for each MPA included in the Program's first phase. A
methodological approach to establishing a baseline will be designed through support for a meeting
of regional experts supported by an international consultant with expertise in the field. Together
with local scientists, the team will carry out a rapid assessment of baseline conditions for each
MPA. A second regional expert meeting will be held to review the initial results of these assess-
ments and devise a monitoring methodology appropriate for park staff to periodically monitor the
status of their respective MPA. The periodic monitoring of selected indicators of MPA ecosystems
"health" will provide a means to gauge the effectiveness of Program-supported management ef-
forts.
> Development of Management Plans for MPAs. New, 1 0-year master management plans will be
prepared for four MPAs (Corozal Bay, Gladden Spit, Sarstoon-Temash, and Omoa-Baracoa. In
each management plan, financial strategies will be formulated specifying existing and potential
revenue generation alternatives and including identification of local and international funding
sources. For these and for the remaining 11 MPAs, which already have long-term management
plans, two year operational plans will be prepared, providing greater detail and specific budgets
for activities identified in the master plans. These will be updated annually. Under this activity,
funds will be provided for local and international consultants; participatory workshops; prepara-
tion, publication and dissemination of management and operational plans; and the publication of
documents appropriate for broader public distribution such as executive summaries of manage-
ment plans, MPA maps, and posters. Short-term technical assistance will be provided to evaluate
the success to date of plan implementation, review and harmonize planning methodologies, and
periodically evaluate the efficacy of plan implementation.
> Basic Equipment and Infrastructure for MPA Plan Implementation. This activity will support the
purchase of basic equipment and infrastructure needed in each MPA to facilitate the planning pro-
cess, enhance administrative capacity, and allow MPA staff to rapidly implement the priority
measures outlined in the aforementioned operational plans. Likely equipment and infrastructure
for the two regional MPA complexes (the Xcalak/Bacalar Chico, and Sarstoon-Temash/Sarstun)
and Utila Island (Honduras)2 will include: boats, motors, and motorcycles; dive equipment;
mooring and marker buoys; ranger stations; and public use facilities (visitor centers, signage,
trails, and composting toilets). For the remaining 10 MPAs, a basic package of computer hard-
ware, software and peripherals as well as communications equipment (base and mobile radios,
batteries and chargers); GPS units; and basic office furniture will be provided.
>  Transboundary Cooperation in Policy, Protection, and Management of MPAs. Most of the MPAs
selected to receive support under the Program are located adjacent or in proximity to international
borders. Current issues in need of effective bi- and tri-national management responses include
management of migratory fish and wildlife stocks, addressing cross-border infractions of existing
2 While Utila is not a transboundary area per se, it includes regionally important fish spawning aggregations, serves as a
potential source of recruitment to adjacent MBRS systems, and is ecologically closely linked to nearby protected areas in
neighboring countries due to dominant currents.



Amnex 2
Page 6of18
laws, and the conservation and management of trans-frontier parks. Under this activity, funds will
be provided to facilitate regular meetings of the field and supervisory staff of MPA management
agencies in Chetumal Bay and the Gulf of Honduras transboundary areas. It is expected that these
meetings and the resulting dialogue and decisions will provide the eventual basis for formaliz ng
the process leading to the joint (i.e., bilateral) management of these and other MPAs in the trans-
boundary areas.
Sub-component B - Institutional Strengthening of MPAs ($ 550 million)
13.   Capacity building for MPA management will be supported under this sub-component and will
focus on regional training courses and workshops for protected area directors, technical st aff,
rangers, and key collaborators from local and national government agencies, collaborating
NGOs, and local communities, will be supported under this sub-component.
>  Marine Park and Tourism Resource Development Program. Training events will be provided for
senior and mid-level MPA managerial staff, para-professional staff of MPA agencies; senior gov-
ernment, university and NGO staff; rangers; supervisory staff at relevant government agencies and
NGOS; tourism institution staff; community leaders, municipal representatives, local entrepre
neurs and community association representatives. Events include the following: management
planning for MPAs; principles of MPA management; development of MPA financial strategies;
administration of MPAs; basic training for MPA rangers; community relations; MPA public u ,e
and tourism programs. Most training will take place in two to three week sessions.
> Training Library Development. In addition to supporting regional training events, the Progran
will also provide a basic standardized training library to all MPA headquarters and ranger stations
throughout the MBRS region (approximately fifty offices). This would facilitate continual profes-
sional improvement for MPA field staff who often lack even minimal access to training manuals,
natural history publications, and other books on themes relevant to MPA management programs.
Component 2. Regional Environmental Monitoring and Information System (US$4.4 million)
14.   The establishment of a regional environmental information system (EIS) will provide an e.-
sential tool to organize and manage data to support improved decision-making. Moreover, a
regional EIS can be used interactively with other Program components, serving both as a re-
cipient of and source for data. In the Program's initial phase, the objective of the EIS compo-
nent will be to provide the basic framework to guide the collection, processing, distribution
and utilization of data to promote improved management of the MBRS. Specifically, the com-
ponent will support the design and implementation of a bilingual EIS whose architecture will
allow broad access to policy makers, technicians, and the public at large. While the establi sh-
ment of an EIS will be a major product of the initial phase of the MBRS Program, it never
theless should be viewed as a "living" system that will grow in complexity and value as new
data are developed and made accessible.
15.   A second objective of the component is to develop a reliable base of data which can be used
to support more informed management decisions. Ecological linkages between reefs, other
marine environments, and coastal watersheds, are mediated, partially or entirely, by water
flow. However, despite the importance of water currents in transporting nutrients, pollutan Ls,
and reproductive products across ecosystem and national boundaries, there is a dearth of data
on the region's current regime and its influence on the status and processes of MBRS reefs
and other critical ecosystems. The component will support collection of oceanographic infor-
mation and data on reproduction, larval dispersal, and recruitment of corals, fish, and other
important reef components, to further our understanding of links between reefs and other ma-



Annex 2
Page 7 of 18
rine environments, and processes which influence reef integrity. This sub-component will
benefit from considerable parallel co-financing to be provided by the Government of Canada
and University of Miami.
Sub-component A - Creation and Implementation of a Distributed, Web-based EIS ($1.70 million)
16.   A web-based EIS will be established which will provide a tool to organize and disseminate
basic environmental data for reefs and other ecosystems and adjacent waters in the MBRS re-
gion, outflows from selected watersheds, and secondary data obtained from other local and re-
gional data sources including relevant broader-scale monitoring programs such as
CARICOMP and CPACC. Specific activities to be supported through this sub-component are:
>  EIS Design and Implementation. Through this activity, the sub-component will support the design,
purchase of equipment, and provision of technical support required to implement a distributed,
web-based, bilingual EIS. The EIS will consist of two tiers, a primary, technical tier accessible to
all participating data nodes, and a secondary, publicly accessible tier providing information on the
MBRS; the latter in support of the Program's public education and other components. Equipment
purchased under this activity consists of high end work stations and computers for a regional of-
fice (see below) and national node offices established in the four participating countries.
A series of intensive, in-country training workshops to build node agency skills in GIS and data
management will include (a) the design of monitoring programs that support improved decision-
making, (b) interpretation of remotely sensed data, and (c) statistical analysis of monitoring data
including "reference condition" and other advanced techniques. All participating agencies will
have a role in the development of the training program to target their respective institution's needs.
>  Meta-database. A critical component of the EIS, will be the establishment of a comprehensive
meta-database, a regional bibliography, and a core of legacy databases which will be maintained
by the aforementioned regional office. At minimum, baseline geo-referenced maps, and first-cut
distributions of major watersheds, coastal water masses, and broad habitat types in shallow waters
will be included in the EIS. Much of these data will have to be generated by appropriate node
agencies and/or the regional office.
L  Information Dissemination. Provision of information (electronically and in print) stemming from
monitoring and other activities being undertaken to gauge and manage the environmental "health"
of the MBRS will be supported through the Program's website An MBRS atlas on both CD ROM
and hard copy media will be prepared in PY 4, which can be updated periodically as new data be-
come available.
Sub-component B - Establishment of a Synoptic MBRS Monitoring Program ($2.65 million)
17.   Under this sub-component, a regional monitoring program for the collection of synoptic data
on physical oceanography (surface currents and temperatures), and ecological connections
among and between reefs and adjacent ecosystems (including coastal watersheds) will be im-
plemented. Monitoring activities will be planned and designed in association with the MBRS
MPA monitoring activity described above, to ensure technical coherence and operational effi-
ciency between the two activities. Specific activities to be supported under this sub-component
include:
> Baseline Assessment and Monitoring Program. This activity will support the preparation of an
MBRS environmental baseline, based on available information on current regime, areas of high
pollution risk, community structure and dynamics, and linkages between key ecosystems to assess



Annex 2
Page 8of18
vulnerability and connectivity. The results of the study will be presented at an initial planning
workshop of the component's Technical Working Group (TWG) in PY 1. It will be the TWG s
task to develop a detailed proposal for a regional monitoring program to include surface currenit
patterns, sources of pollution and water quality, and reef community dynamics including coral and
fish recruitment.
In the initial phase of the Program, the geographic emphasis of the monitoring activities will be in
the two transboundary areas of the MBRS. Selection criteria will likely include: presence of biodi-
versity-rich ecosystems; importance of the areas as sources or sinks for recruitment of corals, -ish,
and other important community components; and presence and degree of threat associated wit-i
pollution stemming from onshore activities. An additional five or six sites at strategic locations
between the northern and southern transboundary areas will be established to contribute to a n-Lore
complete understanding of the ecological processes that characterize the MBRS.
> Targeted Research. The monitoring study will be supported by ancillary field studies. These will
include:
*  Characterization of presence, composition, and status of specific biotic communities in prox-
imity to monitoring stations.
*  A module which will monitor the flow and water quality at stations in proximity to Rio
Hondo, New River, Motagua River, Chamelecon River and Ulua Rivers to include an assess-
ment of their importance as outlets for agro-chemicals and other bioactive compounds that
may affect the "health" of the reefs, This will include support for development of a set of bio-
monitoring indicators that would allow more simple and cost effective monitoring of water
quality, and which could be applied routinely to coral reef sites throughout the region, includ-
ing MPAs.
*  A risk analysis using satellite imagery of river flood plumes, and/or analysis of offshore sedi-
ments derived from terrigenous materials, to identify those reef communities that are most at
risk to river-borne pollutants.
: Development of a hydrodynamic surface flow model for the region, a key output scheduledl
near the end of the Program's first phase.
The monitoring program and targeted research will be supported through the purchase of sampling
equipment, logistical support for data collection, funding for laboratory analyses, and specialized
technical assistance. This research will be complemented by proposed research on oceanographic and
other factors affecting recruitment from source reefs to sink reefs within or adjacent to the MBRS, in-
formation vital to the strategic siting or expansion of MPAs in the region. The latter research on ree,f
connectivity will be funded through co-financing provided by the Government of Canada and Unit er-
sity of Miami.
Component 3. Promoting Sustainable Use of the MBRS (US$1.9 million)
18.    There is growing evidence that non-sustainable resource use practices are in aggregate begin-
ning to affect the overall "health" of the MBRS. The objective of this component is to support
the introduction of new policy frameworks and management tools to increase institutional ca-
pacity, disseminate key information and create the necessary incentives for stakeholders to
shift toward patterns of sustainable use of MBRS resources. This component will initially fo-
cus on the two most significantly important and potentially harmful economic sectors depend-
ent on the MBRS, fishing and tourism. These have been combined in successful pilots activi-



Annex 2
Page 9 of 18
ties in Belize with the conversion of reef fishermen to recreational (fly-fishing) and sea kay-
aking tour operators. Other opportunities involving women, such as tour guides in adjacent
coastal protected areas, in value added processing of fish catch, in marketing of cultural
amenities and as small hotel or pension operators, will also be explored and promising ap-
proaches scaled up in subsequent phases. WWF, in the meantime, has identified this area as
one in which significant co-financing resources will be placed.
Sub-component A - Promotion of Sustainable Fisheries Management ($1.04 nmllion)
19.    Several commercial species of finfish, crustacea and mollusks are either fully or over-
exploited throughout the MBRS region. Not only do these species represent an important eco-
nomic resource to coastal communities, many of them play key functional roles in the reef
ecosystem. Despite the importance of the resource, sustainable management objectives for
most of these species have rarely been achieved in the region; a situation attributed largely to a
lack of awareness (among policy makers, resource managers and fishers, alike); poor educa-
tion; conflicts among coastal-based resource user groups; and minimum research capacity in
the MBRS region. This sub-component will address some of the causes of overfishing by sup-
porting: (a) monitoring and management of spawning aggregation sites, (b) improved institu-
tional capacity in sustainable fisheries management, (c) promotion of alternative livelihood
systems, and (d) support dialogue aimed at developing a Regional Fisheries Policy.
E Monitoring and Management of Spawning Aggregation Sites. A key stage in the reproductive cy-
cle of many of the commercially important reef-based fish species in the MBRS is the periodic ag-
gregation of spawning populations in geographically-specific areas. Knowledgeable fishers exploit
these resources without restriction. To date there are few data to assess the consequences of these
fishing practices on either the fish populations or the MBRS at large. Nor are there consistent na-
tional or regional policies to manage the practice. The objective of this activity is to support the
collection and analysis of scientific and anecdotal information: (a) documenting the location of
these sites, (b) ascertaining their ecological and socio-economic importance, and (c) estimating the
degree of exploitation (by fishing and other activities), with priority given to commercially im-
portant species, and (d) assessing the impact on population demographics. A key output from this
activity will be the formulation of a draft regional policy to control the exploitation of these sites.
This policy will form part of a broader Regional Fisheries Policy, which will focus on the har-
monization of closed seasons, minimum sizes, fishing techniques, and joint monitoring and sur-
veillance.
3 Institutional Strengthening. This activity will identify and test new approaches to the sustainable
management of fisheries that could be expanded and replicated in possible future Program phases.
These are:
*  Design and implementation of a regional fisheries data collection and management system.
This activity will review existing fisheries data collection systems in the region, determine the
feasibility of modifying them to suit MBRS needs, and produce a common fisheries data col-
lection and management system for the MBRS, in the form of software and a users manual.
This system will be compatible with the EIS. Copies of the software, users manual, computers
and printers will be provided, together with training, to the four countries respective fisheries'
agencies in an effort to promote immediate use of the new data collection system.
*  Training in and provision of existing computer-based management models (ECOPATH and
ECOSIM) to the four countries to support, on a pilot basis, the adoption of an ecosystem-
based approach to fisheries management.



AnrLex 2
Page 10 of 18
*  Regional and national training for fishers, government officials and members of NGOs in
fisheries co-management techniques.
*  A study addressing the socio-economic interrelationships between fishing and other user
groups (particularly tourism) within the coastal zone of the MBRS. This assessment will in-
clude a cost-benefit analysis of fisheries relative to other sectors; identify positive relation.
ships and conflicts between fishers and other user groups and will recommend guidelines "or
enhancing positive relationships as well as conflict resolution measures between fishers arid
competing sectors in the coastal zone; and identify opportunities for multiple use.
*  Support for professional peer exchange and hands-on training in specific skills for technicians
working in fisheries issues in the MBRS region. This activity will allow for the comparison
and joint analysis of fisheries data, as part of the basis upon which a Regional Fisheries Pc licy
will be developed.
O Promotion of Sustainable Livelihoods. Training of fishers from the transboundary areas in alterna-
tive income generating activities will be conducted in PY2 and PY3. This activity will give fis iers
the capacity needed to diversify from fishing into more sustainable income-generating activities,
based on other successful initiatives in the region. Training will include, but not be limited to,
kayaking, sport-fishing, SCUBA, leading nature tours, etc. After training, the equipment used 5or
training (kayaks, rods and reels, paddles, life-vests, fly kits, etc.) would be housed within the
training institution and rented to trained fishers at a low cost.
Sub-component B - Facilitation of Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism ($. 85 million)
20.    Tourism is the world's fastest growing industry. Tourist arrivals to the Central America su b-
region represented the highest average annual percentage growth increase within the Americas
region over the past 3 years. A large part of this growth is in nature-based tourism, relying on
the amenities or attractions of the Caribbean Basin's unique marine environment. The MBRS
still boasts some of the least spoiled coastal profiles and some of the most outstanding undl r-
water experiences in the Caribbean. However, in the absence of adequate environmental mcian-
agement guidelines or regulatory regimes, proliferation of traditional sea and sun tourism i n
parts of the region has occurred, putting many of these amenities at risk. There is a critical
need to stimulate an on-going policy dialogue and take specific steps to ensure that sustainable
tourism principles and practices are implemented through regional cooperation in fast growing
tourism destinations within the MBRS.
21.    The objective of this sub-component is to formulate and apply policy guidelines and best
practice models for sustainable coastal and marine tourism in the four countries of the MBRS.
The desired outcome is to provide and disseminate examples that demonstrate how to mini-
mize the adverse impacts of tourism and enhance its potential beneficial effects on
coastal/marine habitats and resources and on human communities located near tourism desi i-
nations. The following activities are planned over the initial five-year phase of the Progran:
R Regional Policy Dialogue and Cooperative Action Forum. To facilitate a tourism policy that is
consistent with marine conservation objectives enshrined in the Tulum Declaration and other ir-
ternational conventions, senior government officials, MPA managers and their tourism industr',
counterparts need to be better informed about critical coastal and marine tourism issues and prc b-
lems. Priority issues include support for rigorous environmental impact assessment, inspection and
enforcement systems for coastal resource development; guidance on the design of innovative re -
gional trip circuits which "package" and market marine parks and other tourist destinations; selec-



Annex 2
Page 11 of 18
tion of at least one specific priority issue each year requiring regional cooperation and develop-
ment of an agreed action agenda to address it.
>  Catalogue of Exemplary Practices. Voluntary codes of conduct in critical segments of the coastal
and marine tourism industry need to be considered and adopted by tourism-related businesses.
This activity will support an extensive literature search and interviews with sustainable tourism
experts, from which "good practices" will be identified and adapted for use in the MBRS region.
A catalogue of "exemplary practices" for sustainable coastal tourism will be developed and dis-
seminated widely in the region through print and the Program's website.3
Regional Environmental Certification and Voluntary Compliance Program. Under this activ-
ity, a region-wide, independent environmental certification program will be established for
coastal and marine tourism operations in key sub-sectors (e.g., hotel/resort facilities, diving
operations, yachting and live aboard, ecolodges, cruise ship tours on land). This regional pro-
gram will include: (a) agreement on a strategy and road map for certification, including per-
formance based standards for environmental certification/ecolabeling; (b) formulation and
adoption of an independent certification and marketing system that positions the MBRS region
as one of the world's leading sustainable tourism destinations; (c) provision of resources for
establishment of the program on a pilot basis in high priority transboundary tourism destina-
tions linked to one or more MPAs; and (d) development and adoption of a plan for expanding
and financing the certification system (e.g., fee for service, cooperative marketing to the green
market). Efforts will be made to create cost effective linkages and cooperative activities with
other on-going certification programs (such as those sponsored by Caribbean Action for Sus-
tainable Tourism). Complementing this will be a study (e), toexplore with the private sector
and other non-public sector stakeholders, the efficiency of various tools in promoting volun-
tary compliance, such as negotiated sectoral compliance, performance rating mechanisms and
information disclosure.
- M1arine Tourism Exemplary Practices Study Tour. A two-week marine tourism exemplary prac-
tices study tour will be designed for "emerging" marine tour operators in the MBRS to network
and share ideas with 5 or 6 established and leading adventure travel, marine travel and ecotourism
operators in Central America. Throughout the Tour, experts will conduct seminars on a number of
topics, including product development, marketing strategies, partnering with the travel trade,
packaging, and market research. Materials will be prepared on environmental practices, commu-
nity involvement, conservation financing and interpretation. A technical report will also be drafted
and widely disseminated to the tourism industry, interested NGOs and government officials
through print and the Program website in order to share lessons learned, case examples and pitfalls
to avoid.
3 Marine Park and Tourism Resource Development Program. A marine park and tourism resource
development training program will be offered, based upon the model training program being de-
signed for the Honduras Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project. The following content will be cov-
ered: (a) setting objectives necessary for the successful future of the MPAs, (b) techniques for cre-
ating and developing a market position for the MPAs (individually and as a group) and establish-
ing this position in relevant marketplaces, such as with travel wholesalers and in tourism maga-
zines, (c) concessions and outsourcing mechanisms for managing ancillary services offered in and
around the MPAs, such as food, lodging, and guide services, as well as security, maintenance,
parking, transportation and a host of other services, (d) fund raising, accounting, financial man-
3 "Exemplary" refers to those practices that have been shown to produce superior results; are elected by a systematic process;
and judged as exemplary, good, or successfully demonstrated. The practices then need to be adapted to fit a particular organi-
zation and practiced by exemplary operators.



Annex 2
Page 12 of 18
agement and reporting, to provide better accountability to donors and improve ability to negoti ite
joint ventures and investment projects with tour operators, hoteliers and other tourism organiza-
tions; (e) environmental education in tourism and natural resources in order to meet the manage-
ment objectives for protected areas, (f) park interpretation to improve environmental outreach wo
tourists and the general public; and (g) community participation, to encourage ownership of pa -k
objectives and facilitate access to conservation and tourism-related benefits by communities li ing
in the buffer zones surrounding protected areas. Priority emphasis will be placed on identifyinti
economic instruments in the marine tourism industry that could be used to enhance compliance
with sustainable tourism policies and regulations, capitalize local trust funds for environmental
management in the coastal zone, and create social funds for community development and incorne
generation in areas impacted by tourism. A survey of tour operators, hotel owners and reef recrea-
tion-related businesses at selected MPAs and municipalities will be conducted to clarify their pref-
erences relative to economic instruments and revenue generating mechanisms. The results will be
used in the training program and disseminated widely in the region.
Component 4. Public Awareness and Environmental Education (US$1.5 million)
22.   A major underlying cause of threats identified in the Threat and Root Cause Analysis com-
pleted in support of MBRS Program preparation was the lack of public education on and
awareness of the significance of the System and the issues that need to be addressed to ensure
its sustainability. A critical element to developing the political will and policies required to
manage the MBRS will be building the necessary public support to catalyze change. The ob-
jective of the component is to increase environmental awareness among a variety of
stakeholders and develop the human capital necessary to plan and manage the diverse re-
sources of the MBRS within a proven framework of conservation and sustainable use. The
component consists of the following two sub-components: (a) development of an environ-
mental awareness campaign, and (b) formal and informal education.
Sub-component A - Developnent of an Environmental Awareness Campaign ($.93 million)
23.   Under this sub-component, the general public's awareness of the importance of the MBRS is
a "world class" resource and the need to promote its conservation and sustainable use will le
increased. This will be carried out through support for the development of a broad-based pub-
lic awareness campaign based on the use of printed and audio-visual materials. Specific ac-
tivities supported under the campaign include:
> Public Awareness Campaign Strategy. This will be developed through a series of meetings and
interviews with key stakeholders in the four MBRS countries. It will be implemented on a national
basis and focus on the value and need for conservation of the shared resources of the MBRS. The
strategy will include the following elements:
*  Establishment of a Database and Information Clearinghouse. MBRS-relevant materials and re-
sources located within and beyond the region will be entered into a database which will be
made accessible through the MBRS Program Website. A catalog of MBRS reference materi-
als, to include all printed and audio-visual materials produced by Program components, wil l be
compiled and made available to the public. This will also include information on environ-
mental regulations and emissions/water quality standards, EIA permitting, zoning for multiple
use, and environmental certification related to the MBRS to increase transparency and mon i-
toring of compliance with these regulations
*  Development and Dissemination of Information Materials. In support of the campaign, printred
and audio-visual materials (e.g., best practices guides and public education teaching materi-



Annex 2
Page 13 of 18
als), will also be reproduced and distributed to target audiences. All materials will be produced
in English, Spanish and, in some cases, Garifuna .
Two, one-day seminars for National Barrier Reef Committees and mass media representatives
will be held in each of the four countries to promote the Program and disseminate the printed
and audio-visual materials.
Sub-component B - Formal and Informal Education ($. 55 nmllion)
24.   The objective of this sub-component will be to increase knowledge and promote changes in
attitudes and behavior towards the conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS through the
strengthening of formal and informal environmental education programs, with particular focus
on the two MBRS transboundary areas. Specific activities which will be supported under this
sub-component are:
> Production and Dissemination of Education Materials. Students at primary and secondary school
levels will be educated about the significance of MBRS and the need to promote sustainable man-
agement practices. Assistance will be provided through creation and/or adaptation of curriculum
materials for students, as well as teachers' guides and teacher training to ensure successful use.
Specifically, this activity will support the production of primary school level curriculum materials
for students and associated teaching guides, and two regional, 6-day training workshops for teach-
ers. Secondary school level curriculum materials for students and associated teaching guides will
also be produced. Two regional, 6-day training workshops for teachers of primary and secondary
schools will complement the development of educational materials. An annual coastal resources
fair and contest will be established for secondary school level students to exhibit and award proj-
ects that most successfully incorporate MBRS conservation and sustainable use themes.
R Regional Workshops and Conferences. Non-formal education will be provided for professionals in
the industrial and tourism sectors which directly affect MBRS resources and for community lead-
ers who exert strong influence on MBRS stakeholders. These will be coordinated with workshops
and training materials developed under the sustainable tourism sub-component to expose partici-
pants to best practices in tourism and other sectors with direct impacts on MBRS resources.
Awards to publicly recognize those who demonstrate their commitments to conservation and sus-
tainable use of MBRS resources will also be supported.
Regional Coordination and Project Management (US$2.4 million)
25.   CCAD w,ll be the implementing agency for the MBRS Program and will oversee execution by
the Program Coordination Unit of the five year Project proposed during Phase 1 (see below).
At the policy level, the Program will be coordinated by the MBRS Regional Steering Com-
mittee (RSC) made up of representatives of CCAD and each of the existing National Barrier
Reef Committees in the four MBRS countries; ex-officio members will include those repre-
senting donor organizations and partner institutions working on related issues in the region.
An MBRS Liaison Officer will be contracted within CCAD to facilitate coordination and to
expedite feedback between CCAD in San Salvador and the PCU in Belize. The RSC will be
supported by a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) composed of internationally recognized
experts in the technical areas of project assistance. A regional Program Coordination Unit
(PCU) based in Belize will be responsible for direct implementation of the five year Project
during the Program's first phase. Technical support will be provided to the PCU by Regional
Technical Work Groups (TWG) made up of appropriately selected representatives from the
National Barrier Reef Committees complemented by regional/international consultants on an



Amnex 2
Page 14f 18
"as-needed" basis.4 The TWGs will be supported by a Policy Working Group that will help
articulate and raise to appropriate levels for consideration, the priority policy objectives aid
actions required to harmonize frameworks governing the use of MBRS resources in the re-
gion. Program activities under each of the four proposed components-Marine Protected xr-
eas; Regional Environmental Information System (EIS); Promotion of Sustainable Use of the
MBRS; and Public Awareness and Environmental Education-will be executed by a mix of
local and regional execution entities. A more detailed description of the organizational frame-
work and responsibilities at each level is provided below:
)  AMBRS Regional Steering Committee. Membership of the RSC will be comprised of the Execu tive
Secretary of the CCAD5 or his delegate, and the National Coordinators of each of the four Na
tional Barrier Reef Committees. The Director of the PCU will serve as a non-voting member and
act as secretary for the Steering Committee. The RSC will provide overall policy guidance within
the general and intermediate objectives of the Program, and will coordinate the participation of
national, regional and international governmental and non-governmental counterpart organiza-
tions' in the implementation of the Program. It will review and approve annual work plans andt re-
solve coordination issues that may arise between countries. The RSC will meet twice annuall: (a)
in early December to evaluate Program activities for the outgoing year presented in the form of an
annual report, and to review and approve proposed activities for the subsequent year in the form of
an aggregated annual work plan; and (b) in mid July to monitor progress in the implementation of
activities proposed in annual work plans. Both of these meetings will also be used to analyze and
resolve any regional policy and coordination issues that may be affecting Program implementa.-
tion.
> Consultative Group. A Consultative Group consisting of .representatives from donor organiza-
tions and partner institutions working in the region on issues related to the MBRS will liase with
the RSC through the PCU to identify synergies for Program development and attract additional co-
financing over the long term. In this way, the RSC will facilitate coordination between the GE F
Regional Project and other efforts which, collectively, constitute the larger, sustained Program of
Actions in support of Conservation and Sustainable Use of the MBRS.
0  Program Coordination Unit. The PCU will coordinate day-to-day implementation of the Program
among each and all components. It will be responsible for contracting and logistical support of re-
spective component implementing entities and consultants, procurement of Program-related
equipment and supplies and overall planning, monitoring and evaluation of Program activities and
quality control of Program execution. In addition, the PCU will also be responsible for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of the MBRS Environmental Information System (EIS), including ils
meta-database and webpage. CCAD and the RSC will delegate administrative authority to the
PCU to directly manage financial resources provided under the GEF grant. However, the PCU will
be accountable to CCAD, which will have ultimate responsibility for Project implementation and
which will be directly accountable to the four participating countries and to the Bank/GEF in
complying with the Grant Agreement for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoaneri-
can Barrier Reef System Project. The PCU will consist of the following staff:
*  Director
* Accountant/Finance Officer
4 Costs of consultants have been budgeted for under the respective components.
5 The Executive Director of the CCAD also acts as the Director General of the General Environmental Directorate (Direcci6n
General de Medio Ambiente, DGMA) of the Secretariat of Central American lntegration (Sistema de Integraci6n Cen-
troamericana, SICA), headquartered in El Salvador.



Annex 2
Page 15 of 18
* Procurement Officer
* Information Management Specialist
* Environmental Monitoring Specialist
* Natural Resources Management Specialist
* Sociologist
* Administrative Assistant
* Driver/Office Assistant
Technical Advisory Comnittee. The TAC will be responsible for advising the PCU on technical
matters which may arise during the implementation of the Program. It will be composed of inter-
nationally-recognized experts in the fields relevant to MBRS Program objectives. Members will
provide technical input for the design and review of annual work programs and serve as informa-
tion gateways to state of the art management, good practice, and professional networks in the areas
of MPA management, sustainable coastal tourism, regional fisheries management, coral reef eco-
system monitoring and EIS, and environmental education and outreach. The Technical Advisory
Committee will also serve as an "honest-broker" to the PCU with respect to resolution of technical
issues under the Project that may be particularly contentious. The TAC will be consulted on an as
needed basis by the PCU, and will convene through an electronic forum to provide timely input to
the deliberations of the RSC in the review of annual workplans.
National Barrier Reef Commitees. The National Barrier Reef Committees will be multi-
sectoral in nature and will be made up of representatives of Government Institutions, local
Government, non-governmental organizations, sectoral groups (such as fishing and tour-
ism), academic institutions, indigenous groups living in the area of influence of the MBRS
Project, and by other representatives that may be deemed necessary by the respective
MBRS country. Among their tasks and responsibilities will be to: (i) assist their respec-
tive National Coordinators in defining policies for the national implementation of activi-
ties by the MBRS Project; .(ii) assist the National Coordinator in preparing National An-
nual Reports of MBRS Project activities in the respective countries; (iii) participate in ad-
hoc committees that may be formed to evaluate and pre-select consultants (individuals or
firms) that may be contracted by the MBRS Project to implement activities at the national
level; (iv) identify representative to participate in the sessions of the Technical Working
Groups (TWGs), in accordance with their technical expertise; (v) provide technical ad-
vice, via the National Coordinator, to the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and (vi) col-
laborate to the extent possible, with Officers of the PCU, consultants or groups of consult-
ants, who may visit the country on official business for the MBRS Project (see Project
Implementation Manual for further detail).
Regional Technical Working Groups. Regional Technical Working Groups (TWG) will be estab-
lished to support each of the Program's four components. Separate TWGs will be established for
sub-components dealing with fisheries and with tourism under the Sustainable Use Component,
and with ecosystem monitoring and environmental information systems under Component 2. The
TWGs will include two technical representatives from each National Barrier Reef Committee ap-
propriately selected based on their affiliation with the technical subject area, preferably one repre-
sentative from a government institution and one representative from a non-governmental or re-
source user organization. TWG composition will be complemented by consultants on an "as
needed" basis. Component specific tasks for each TWG would include:



Annex 2
Page 16 of 18
* TWG on Marine Protected Areas will be responsible for: (a) participating in and coordinating
development of a methodology for establishment of a baseline and monitoring program fcr
MBRS-supported MPAs, (b) promoting the use of this methodology in other non-participating
MPAs, (c) reviewing and commenting on MPA management and operational plans, (d) pro-
moting needed policy change/formulation identified in MPA specific management plans
through their respective governments to ensure future sustainability of the protected area .ys-
tem, and (e) reviewing training course content and lists of participants to ensure sub-
component objectives are achieved.
* TWG on Environmental Monitoring and Information System
o  The sub-group for the environmental information system sub-component will be responsi-
ble for: (a) developing data-sharing agreements and other procedures required to ensu e
the successful establishment and operation of the EIS, (b) coordinating and integrating
national node agencies' efforts, and (c) promoting development of additional nodes ar d
the growth and broader use of the EIS.6
o  The sub-group on the environmental monitoring sub-component will be responsible fcr
coordinating and implementing the monitoring program. Specifically, it will be resporsi-
ble for: (a) reviewing and commenting on the draft baseline assessment document, (b) ad-
vising on the selection of sites and design of the monitoring program, (c) advising on ihe
ancillary studies in support of the monitoring program.
- TWG on Sustainable Use of the MBRS
o  The sub-group on sustainable fisheries will be responsible for: (a) coordinating and par-
ticipating in development of a methodology for establishment of a data baseline and
monitoring program for fish aggregation sites; (b) participating in the drafting, promotion,
and adoption of a regional policy to conserve and manage the fishery resources at these
sites; (c) participating in the design and adoption of a standardized fisheries data collec-
tion system; (d) introducing measures to harmonize policies regulating the exploitation of
shared stocks (e.g., through agreement on quotas, closed seasons, fishery no-take zones),
and protection of threatened and endangered species; and (e) coordination of training and
activities.
o  The sub-group on sustainable coastal and marine tourism will be responsible for: (a) coor-
dinating and participating in the regional cooperative action forum, (b) monitoring the im-
plementation and follow-up of agreed actions stemming from forum meetings, and (c) co-
ordinating and participating in the development and promotion of the regional environ-
mental certification program.
*  TWG on Public Awareness and Environmental Education will be responsible for: (a) facili-
tating the identification and accessing of data and information in support of the component, (b)
providing input to, reviewing and commenting on the public awareness strategy, (c) promrcting
the mass media campaign through available national channels, and (d) reviewing and com-
menting on educational materials in support of the formal and informal educational sub-
component.
6 In addition to representation from the National Coral Reef Committees, where representatives are not from the participating
national node agency, the latter will also participate in the EIS sub group.



Annex 2
Page 17 of 18
26.   Supporting all of the TWGs will be a separate "Policy Working Group" composed of experts
in environmental law and natural resources management policy from the region. The role of
the Policy Working Group will be to assist the TWGs in the identification of priority policy
objectives and actions required to harmonize national frameworks governing the use of MBRS
resources in each country with agreed regional frameworks, e.g., for fisheries, water quality,
coastal tourism development, EIA and establishment of protected areas. The Policy Working
Group will liaise closely with CCAD and its legal office to ensure that policy objectives under
the MBRS are raised to the highest levels for consideration within the System for Central
American Integration (SICA), and to establish performance benchmarks for policy harmoni-
zation during the near, medium and long term. These benchmarks will form the basis for the
design of policy actions during Phases 2 and 3 of the Program. Complementing this, a sce-
nario analysis of different economic policies, development schemes and demographic trends
in the sub-region will be prepared in PY2 to create a strategic context for design of the longer
term MBRS Program and to identify the priority environmental policies and investments to be
supported in subsequent phases of the Program.
27.   After the first year, TWGs will meet annually at the end of each calendar year, scheduled to
coincide with the RSC's meeting, in order to assess program progress related to each group's
technical interest area and provide input to the annual planning process for the ensuing year's
activities. Meetings of the TWGs will be structured such that cross-fertilization between the
Policy Working Group and the TWGs is maximized. This will ensure that actions included in
the Annual Work Plans are closely linked to specific policy objectives. These groups will also
communicate on a continuous basis via Internet, telephone, fax and/or informally during
training events and seminars throughout the year to coordinate their respective National
Committee's support for regional Program implementation.
h Component Execution Entities. The PCU, with RSC approval and consistent with Bank procure-
ment policies and guidelines, will select a series of qualified national and international and non-
governmental organizations and consultants to carry out proposed Program activities. Selection of
these entities will be based on their unique geographic position in proximity to Program outreach
areas and/or technical areas of expertise to implement such activities under a competitive process.
The PCU will sign and manage cooperative agreements and/or contracts with these entities and
supervise their execution. Specific activities to be carried out by these entities are described under
the respective Program components and terms of the MBRS Program Implementation Manual
(PIM).
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
28.   Much of PYI will be devoted to establishing the necessary institutional arrangements to en-
sure efficient Program implementation. Facilitated by the Project Implementation Manual
(PIM), these arrangements include: (a) staffing and equipping the PCU; and (b) forming the
Program's RSC, TAC and TWGs. A major milestone for the PCU will be to prepare an in-
terim work plan to be submitted to the RSC at the mid-point of PYI. Prior to that, the PCU
Coordinator and staff will be working under previously prepared TORs submitted and ap-
proved by the RSC as part of the PIM. Much of the remainder of PYI will be devoted to plan-
ning and design of specific components and their respective activities and completing con-
tracting arrangements with the various executing entities.
29.   Under the MPA component, following the establishment of the TWG, MPA baseline assess-
ments will be phased in over the first three Program years beginning with an initial six as-
sessments proposed for PYI. These will "drive" the schedule of the subsequent steps of plan



Annex 2
Page 18 of 18
development and implementation, which have been sequenced over PY2 - PY4. MPA moni-
toring activities will commence approximately one year after the completion of the baseline
and continued to the end of the Program's first phase. Training activities will begin in PY1 but
will be mostly concentrated in PY2 and PY3.
30.   Under the Regional EIS component, the design of the EIS, establishment of national data
nodes, and purchase of equipment are projected for PYI. These activities will be followed by
the establishment of the meta-database and production of the atlas in PY2 and PY4, respe.-
tively. Under the environmental monitoring sub-component, the completion of the initial as-
sessment of baseline conditions and monitoring program design are scheduled for the end of
PYI. Equipment purchase and deployment and the initiation of field monitoring will com -
mence in PY 2.
31.   Under the Sustainable Fisheries Management sub-component, the initial assessment of aggre-
gations of fish populations is projected for the end of PYI, followed by a 3 year monitoring
program beginning in PY 2 and continuing through PY4. The design and purchase of equ p-
ment related to the fishery data management system will also be completed in PYI thougl
training will not commence until PY2. Most of the remaining activities under this sub-
component are scheduled to commence in PY2 and some will continue until the end of the,
Program's first phase.
32.   Under the Tourism sub-component, the initiation of the action forum and the certification pro-
gram activities will commence in PY1 and continue through the life of the first phase. The
publication of the exemplary practices catalogue and support for the exemplary practices .tudy
tour is scheduled for PY2 and PY3, respectively.
33.   Finally, under the Public Awareness and Environmental Education component, the establish-
ment of the clearing house, design of the public awareness campaign, and publication of rmate-
rials are projected for PYI. The implementation of the campaign, distribution of materials, and
most of the workshops and conferences are scheduled for PY2-PY5.



Annex 3
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                US$million    US$million     US$million
1. Marine Protected Areas                                 2.1            2.5           4.6
2. Regional Environmental Information System (EIS)        1.6            2.5            4.1
3. Promotion of Sustainable Use of the MBRS               0.8            1.0           1.8
4. Public Awareness and Environmental Education           0.5            0.9           1.4
5. Regional Coordination and Project Management           0.8            1.4           2.2
Total Baseline Cost                                        5.8           8.3           14.1
Physical Contingencies                                    0.0            0.2            0.2
Price Contingencies                                       0.4            0.5            0.9
Total Project Costs                 6.2            9.0           15.2
Total Financing Required                  6.2            9.0           15.2
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Category                US$million     US$million    US$million
Goods                                                     0.2           2.2            2.4
Works                                                     0.2            0.2           0.4
Services                                                  2.0            3.0           5.0
Training                                                  1.5            1.0           2.5
Recurrent Costs                                           1.9            1.9           3.8
Contingencies                                             0.4            0.7           1.1
Total Project Costs                6.2            9.0           15.2
I



Annex 4
Page I of 14
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 4
Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
Overview
1.    The global objectives of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Project are to enhance prol ection
of ecologically unique and vulnerable marine ecosystems of the second longest barrier reef in the
world and to assist the countries of Mexico, Belize, Guatemala and Honduras to strengthen and
coordinate national policies, regulations, and institutional arrangements for marine ecosystem
conservation and sustainable use of this global public good. The Project's specific objectives are
to: (a) strengthen existing and create new marine protected areas; (b) develop and implement a
standardized data management system of ecosystem monitoring and facilitate the dissemination
of its outputs throughout the region; (c) promote measures that will serve to reduce non-
sustainable patterns of economic exploitation of the MBRS, focusing initially on the fisheries and
tourism sectors; (d) increase local and national capacity for environmental management through
education, information sharing and training; and (e) facilitate the strengthening and coordinating
of national policies, regulations, and institutional arrangements for marine ecosystem conserva-
tion and sustainable use.
2.    The GEF Alternative intends to achieve these objectives at a total incremental cost of US$] 1.0
million through the implementation of components entailing improved planning, management,
and monitoring of marine protected areas; strengthening technical capacity of protected areas
staff; creation and implementation of a distributed, Web-based environmental information sys-
tem; establishment of a synoptic monitoring system; promotion of sustainable tourism and sus-
tainable fisheries management in coastal communities; development of an environmental aware-
ness campaign; support for formal and informal education; and Project management.
Context: Threats and Root Causes
3.    Coral reefs support the most diverse forms of life on earth. The framework built by corals aiid
algae supports a fantastic variety of flora and fauna, including invertebrates, such as hard and soft
corals, mollusks, sponges, anemones, sea whips, tube worms, shrimps, crabs, lobsters, clam i,
starfish, sea urchins and tunicates. Megafauna inhabiting this underwater rain forest include over
4000 species of fish, marine reptiles, and an array of marine mammals that migrate through their
waters. The MBRS, extending from Mexico to Honduras in the Western Caribbean, is the second
longest barrier reef in the world, serving as a habitat for tremendous marine biodiversity. Ti-e
MBRS is unique in the Western Hemisphere on account of its size, its array of reef types, and the
luxuriance of corals that it contains. Unusual geophysical features include the complex maze of
patch reefs and faroes in a relatively deep shelf lagoon; the great diversity of reef types in a small
geographical area; and the large offshore mangrove cays that have a marine origin. In southern
Belize, the mangrove cays of Port Honduras-Payne Creek and the Sarstoon-Temash system along
the border with Guatemala constitute the largest stand of mangroves in all of Belize and the Car-
ibbean coast of Guatemala. They provide nutrients and critical habitat in the juvenile stages for
much of the invertebrate and vertebrate fauna that inhabit the southern portion of the MBRS in
the Gulf of Honduras. The MBRS is also unique in featuring three oceanic atolls, of which
Glovers Atoll is considered to be the best example of an atoll in the Caribbean basin.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 14
4.     Associated with the MBRS ecosystem are extensive areas of relatively pristine coastal wetlands,
lagoons, seagrass beds and mangrove forests that provide critical habitat for a number of threat-
ened species and many species of birds. The species diversity of plants within the Glovers Atoll
alone has been found to be higher, by a factor of two, than that of other Caribbean and Gulf of
Mexico reef island groups. The MBRS stabilizes and protects coastal landscapes, maintains
coastal water quality, sustains species of commercial importance, serving as breeding and feeding
grounds for fish and invertebrates, and offers employment alternatives and incomes to approxi-
mately one million people living in coastal zones facing the reefs. In view of its exceptional char-
acter, a number of sites in the MBRS have been designated as World Heritage sites. Five of these
lie within the Belize Barrier Reef.
5.     Despite its renown as an important habitat for coastal and marine biodiversity, the MBRS is under
severe threat. Particular threatened species include: N. American manatee; Loggerhead Turtle;
Green Turtle; Hawksbill Turtle; Olive Ridley Turtle; black corals; queen conch; and spotted spiny
lobster and Nassau Grouper in parts of their range. A Threat and Root Cause Analysis (TRCA)
carried out during Project preparation indicated that the principal threats to the MBRS include:
> Coastal/Island Development and Unsustainable Tourism, which includes urban, hotel and resort de-
velopment and related infrastructure, together with all the direct and indirect impacts that these bring
to bear on the MBRS (e.g., pollution/contamination, nutrification, sedimentation, physical reef dam-
age, impacts to estuary and lagoons and mangrove destruction, beach erosion, habitat change, etc.).
Box i. Existing Threats and Root Causes:
Coastal/island Development and Unsustainable Tourism
The City of Chetumal discharges 200 cubic meters of untreated sewage into Chetumal Bay each day.
Volumes of raw or poorly treated sewage of similar or greater magnitude are discharged from urban
centers directly into coastal waters of the MBRS coast from Belize City, Puefto Cortes, Tela, La Ceiba
and Trujillo. Excess nutrients can result in blue-green algal blooms that smother coral reefs. Repeated
fish kills in the vicinity of Belize City afe attrfibuted to effluent from an industri galvanizing plant. Simi-
ladty, ever-increasiig cruise ship and live aboard tourism, which is predicted to add an additional 20
ships and 2,000, 000 passengers to the Caribbean in the year 2000t can likewise produce serious im-
pacts if not regulated. Pulses of high numbers of tourists can overtax public services, reduce local food
stocks, and generate vast amounts of solid and liquid wastes that must be accommodated by munici-
palities in the MBRS. If these ships visit offhore island and coral reef sites, waste management prob-
lems may become acute, and inexperienced and/or unsupervised divers and snorkelers may lead to
coral breakage, predation and uncontroled fishing.
The intermediate causes of threats from inappropriate coastal development and unsustainable tourism
are linked primanrly to the inability, or lack of will, to enforme compliance of existing laws and regulations
regarding environmental impact assessment and land-use zoning. In some cases, regulations and fand-
use plans are non-existent. There is a notable lack of land-use/integrated coastal management plans
and zoning related to basic environmental and engineering prncipfes. Another intermediate cause is
failure to control settlement and inappropriate land use in marginal areas not environmentally fit for
habitation, especially national and municipal properties, including mangroves, beaches, wetlands and
near lagoons. Behind these intermediate causes stands a series of structural root causes, including a
lack of awareness of the impacts of developrnent actions in the coastal environment at all levels, from
local resource users up to national govemment policy makers. Likewise, weak land tenure policies favor
large landowners and restrict access of the poor to land needed, in most cases, for subsistence agnoul-
ture. This is further complicated by poverty in rural areas due to lack of employment opportunities, the
failing natural resource base, and lack of basic social services. As these conditions worsen, the tural
poor set out in search of other opportunities, with an increasing number heading to coastal areas.
> Inappropriate Inland Resource/Land Use and Industrial Development, encompassing a broad range
of agricultural, urban and industrial development in inland watersheds that drain into coastal areas;



Annex 4
Page 3 of 14
contamination of wetlands, lagoons and estuaries, whether directly or indirectly impacting the MBRS
(e.g., sedimentation, pollutionlcontamination, nutrification, habitat and species/abundance changes,
mass kills of organisms, etc.).
Box 2. Existing Threats and Root Causes:
Inappropriate Inland ResourceJLand Use and Industrial Development
Biological Oxygen Demand (BOO) and Total Suspended Solids (TSS) represent the two greatest pollutant
loads entering the Wider Caribbean Region and MBRS, with TSS loads from rivers being one order of
magnitude higher than loads from industfial and urban/domestic sources discharged directly into coastal
waters. It is estimated that approximately 90 percent of all pesticides applied in the region do not reach
their targeted species, much of this lost to runoff into streams and eventually manifested in marine biota in
coastal waters. Likewise, approximately Z500 gallons of liquid wastes are discharged from sugar refihing
and rum distilling operations on the New River in Belize, conttibuting large organic loads and spent lubfi-
cants to the Chetumal Bay. Of the 380 industries registered in the Sula Valley, the most industrialized area
adaent to the MBRS and drained pnmanly by the Rio Chamelec6n, 150 are reported to have envron-
meta  problematic effluents.
The intermediate and root causes of the threats associated with inappropriate resources and land use and
industrial development in areas inland frt'rn the coasts can be distributed into two pnrncipal groups: (a) iack
of(-use antl watershed managem:ent plans to guide environmentally-sound development, compounded
by limited regulations and local capacity to assess environmental impacts of development projects, espe-
cially industrial enterprises an transportinfrastructue, and subsidies favoring industrial development with-
out:investments in environmental protection; and (b) lack of secure access to land, basic human serv ces
and technical assistance to facilitate practice of appropriate land and resource-use techniques, leaving the
rural poor to migrate to upland watersheds and other areas incapable of supporting agricultural uses.
>  Overfishing andAquaculture Development, including industrial, artisanal, subsistence and recrea-
tional fishing, and aquaculture in coastal areas and the real and potential impacts of species and abun-
dance change, local overfishing of selected species (e.g., grouper, jack, mackerel, snapper and sn Dok);
and poaching of selected species (e.g., manatee and sea turtles); habitat change/symbiosis imbalances;
reduced subsistence and revenues from fisheries.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 14
Box 3. Existing Threats and Root Causes: Overfishing and Aquaculture Development
Based on the results of FAO's 1994 Survey of the Wider Caribbean, 70 percent of the pelagic stocks and 60
perent of the demersal stocks were oonsidered over-exploited. The over-dimensioned fishing fleets, especially
in Honduras where the number of industnal ships was 360 in 1996, places great fishing pressure on the primary
commercial species, especially as the ships now use more advanced navigation and fish-finding equipment and
some pull as many as four trawling nets. Species under the greatest pressure are lobster, conch, shrimp and
certain species of finfish (esp. grouper and large grazers), for which overall harvests have been reduced by 60-
75 percent based on catch-per-unit-effort since 1979 in Honduras and Belize, with similar reductions noted in
the rest of the MBRS. Utilization of illegal equipment and fishing methods, including use of SCUBA for lobster
and conch fishing, has led to excessive local depredation and reduction in stocks of key commercial species.
Intermediate causes of the threats associated with overffshing can be found in large part in the lack of compli-
ance with existing national fisheries regulations and standards upheld in international conventions and treaties.
This can be attributed in part to lack of awareness of the impacts of oveffishing and of the content of the law by
many artisanal fishers, and the zeal to increase catch and revenue of over-dimensioned industrial fleets. The
insufficient number and capability of govemment staff responsibte for enforcement of fisheries regulations is
another intermediate cause. Furthetmore, lack of valid data concerning abundance, reproduction habits, and
landingsharvest of species of fAshes, mollusks and crustaceans, especially those under pressure, restricts de-
velopment of management plans and complicates enforcement of regulations. Regarding inappropriate aquac-
ulture, intermediate causes are primarily those resulting in poor siing, construction and operation of ponds, due
to the lack of capacity of local professionals to execute ElAs and recommend appropriate mitigating measures.
Likewise, there have been few regulations promulgated to ensure environmentally sound operation of aquacul-
ture operations. For all threats associated with overfishing and inappropriate aquaculture, the most important
root cause is the lack of integrated fisheries policies and management plans at the national level, and the MBRS
region as a whole.
> Inappropriate Port, Shipping and Navigation Practices, including intentional and accidental con-
tamination of waters, reefs and beaches, physical reef damage, impacts to aquatic species and fisher-
ies (including mass kills), degradation of the tourism value of reefs and related coastal environments,
and related topics.
Box 4. Existing Threats and Root Causes:
Inappropriate Port, Shipping and Navigation Practices
More than 90 percent of commerce in the region is transported by oceangoing ships, making ports and navi-
gation of high economic development value, but also a focal point for real and potential threats to the ecologi-
cal health of the MBRS. Oil terminals in the area involve the transport of millions of gallons of petroleum and
denvatives through the MBRS region each month, Port and jetty constrction and dredging associated with
channel and harbor maintenance results in increased sedimentation in seagrass beds and nearby coral reefs,
stressing and potentially smothering them, Redeposition of sediments may result in erosion of beaches and
accretion in navigation channels, estuaries and coastal lagoons, and may change flows in local currents and
flushing of bays and estuaries. Changes in coastal morphology may reduce defenses against storms and ac-
tually instigate more damage from storm surge and flooding.
Inappropriate waste management practices on ships and in ports can result in nutrirication and/or chemical
contamination of estuaries, bays, wetlands, reefs and sea-grass beds. Most ports have limited facilities to re-
ceive solid and liquid wastes from ships, inducing many to dump their wastes directly into the sea. Wastes
dumped in inadequate landfills may make their way back to the coastal waters and beaches. Such spils can
cause fish kills as well as sublethal impacts. As solid and liquid wastes float ashore, they foul beaches, repre-
sent human health hazards and reduce aesthetics important to the tourism industry.
Intermediate causes of threats include lack of awareness of the impacts of ports, deficient regulations and
limited local capacity to assess environmental impacts of port projects. This is compounded by the lack of
baseline information on coastal resources and currents. The lack of overall integrated coastal and port-
specific management plans, contingency plans for rapid responses to shipping emergencies and spills and
I The Honduras fleet consists of 128 shrimp trawlers, 181 lobster boats, 14 conch fishing boats and 37 finfish boats.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 14
equipment to handle them also poses threats to both shipping and the environment The lack of waste man-
agaemnt facilities in ports telegates ships to disposal at sea. Root causes include the lack of institutional Ca-
pacity to properly manage port operations and shpping, as authority is distributed among various agencies
8n7d too lifttl investmtent providb to maintain andbVuprad porf facilities and train port personnel,
N Natural Oceanographic and Climato-Meteorological Phenomena, with regard to the influence of cur-
rents and winds, El Nino/La Nifia events, increased frequency and amplitude of tropical storms,
global warming, earthquakes and tsunamis, and their potential cumulative effect. The devastation at-
tributed to Hurricane Mitch, following massive bleaching of coral reefs associated with an intel se El
Ninio episode in the summer of 1998, is one such example. Bleaching affected all reefs in Belize, par-
ticularly in the lagoon area, where up to 90 percent mortality was detected.
Box S. Existing Threats: Natural Oceanographic and Climato-Meteorological Phenomena
Oceanographic and climato-neeorogWical features are pennanent phenomena in nature, however their in-
creased fequncy and intent now thught to be associatwici   change, represent serious threats
to both human and biological coastal communits.  ments  d development infrastmcture are exposed
to greater n'sk as a result of increas  storm da    end flooding. More frequent and sustained increases in
sea surface temperatures like those associatd with recent El lo events, also puts coral reefs-almady
near or at their critical thermal maxima-at much greater nsk. The MBRS;S increasing exposure to anthropo-
genic stress may lower the resilience of its communities to suchf 'natural disturbance. Bleaching, reuced
calcification rates and increased vulnerabdit to diseases among corals are all potential outcomes of dmnajor
shifts in t  pefiodicity and amplitude of atmospheric and oceanographic phenomena. Continuous monitoring
of these phenomena and of physical and bio     indictos of coral reef health, with be essential to as-
sessing the long-term vulnerability of the MBRS to system-wide changes in oceanographic and atmosphefic
conditons that excee historic levels of variation in these states.
6.    The TRCA indicated that two transboundary subregions, the Chetumal Bay - in the border region
of Mexico and Belize - and the Gulf of Honduras - shared by Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras -
are the principal foci of the majority of known and/or potential threats and their impacts to lie
ecological health of the MBRS, with most of the intermediate and root causes of the threats oc-
curring therein. Unfortunately, not enough is known about the ecology of the reefs nor their re-
covery potential to adequately assess the long-term impact of these forms of stress on the viability
of the ecosystem nor the costs to human populations of the potential losses associated with them.
7.    The broad development goals of the four participating countries focus on economic growth, im-
proving the effectiveness of the public sector, poverty alleviation and improved natural reso irce
management. The Project supports these goals through promoting sustainable use of natural re-
sources and generation of sustained benefit flows from coastal and marine resources to poor, rural
communities, as well as training of government officials in improved methods for planning and
management of resources.
Baseline Scenario
8.    Scope. On June 5, 1997, the Presidents of Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras and the Prime Min-
ister of Belize signed the "Declaration of Tulum" in which they acknowledged the global biologi-
cal, economic and cultural importance of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef in relation to the re-
gion's future, the seriousness of the threats facing this unique system, and the urgent need tc initi-
ate actions to counter these threats. The four nations' leaders committed themselves to initiate a
process of active collaboration between the four countries to prepare and implement an Acti in
Plan for the conservation of the MBRS.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 14
9.     In June 1997, the Central American Commission on Environment and Development (CCAD),
representing the three Central American countries bordering the MBRS, and which includes
Mexico as an observer, approached the World Bank requesting support for the design of strate-
gies and projects at the regional and national levels for conservation and sustainable use of the
MBRS. With financial support from the Global Environment Facility and technical support from
the World Bank, IUCN, and WWF, the four countries drafted an Action Plan for the management
of the MBRS. The Action Plan includes the following major elements: (a) integrated land use
planning; (b) research/monitoring, education and information dissemination; (c) establishment of
marine protected areas; (d) promotion of sustainable tourism efforts; (e) maintenance of water
quality and pollution prevention; (f) capacity building: institutional strengthening, participatory
management and financial sustainability; (g) harmonization and implementation of robust legal
frameworks; (h) fulfillment of international agreements; and (i) regional coordination in the im-
plementation of the Action Plan. The Action Plan provides the basis for a comprehensive pro-
gram of regional and national level activities aimed at safeguarding the integrity and productivity
of the MBRS and ensuring the social and environmental sustainability of benefits derived from it
now and in the future.
10.    In line with the 1997 Action Plan, concerns over increasing threats to biodiversity in particular
have prompted the four participating governments to carry out work on National Biodiversity and
Actions Plans (BSAPs) with assistance from UNDP/GEF. These BSAPs have identified chal-
lenges to the conservation and wise use of biological resources, including the effectiveness of
laws and institutions. Priority areas for work include identification of unsustainable natural re-
source use and the impacts of such practices on national and regional ecosystems and species
threatened with extinction. Solutions to address such problems include - among others - more ef-
fective enforcement of existing laws and regulations, strengthening of existing protected areas
and creation of new protected areas where necessary and resources permit, improved land man-
agement and broader participation of responsible governmental and non-governmental organiza-
tions in natural resource management.
1l.    Accomplishing the above-mentioned development priorities and in particular those related to the
Action Plan in the four participating countries will require upgraded capacity and quality of gov-
ernment institutions addressing coastal and marine resource management, policy harmonization,
and programs targeted towards sustainable income generation, particularly for the rural poor. The
following discussion of the Baseline Scenario activities is divided as follows: (a) activities fi-
nanced strictly by government resources; (b) activities financed by multilateral institutions2; (c)
activities financed by bilateral donors; and (d) activities financed by NGOs.
12.    Nationally financed activities. Activities at the national level in the four participating countries
relating to policing of coastal and marine resources; enforcement of environmental laws; promul-
gation of policies regarding fisheries laws and water quality; physical sampling and monitoring of
water quality related to nutrient loads and coastal and marine pollution; as well as participation in
regional working groups relating to coral reef monitoring, fisheries management (e.g.,
CARICOM Fisheries Resource Assessment and Management Program), or other public sector
activities directly related to coastal and marine resources management in the MBRS region total
approximately US$4.5 million over the next five years, including: Government of Mexico,
2. Activities financed by the Global Environmental Facility are mentioned in this analysis to indicate the full extent of activities
underway in the region; nonetheless, they are not considered as part of financing of the Baseline Scenario. Furthermore, the four
participating countries are in the final stages of Enabling Activities for Biodiversity with the support from the Global Environ-
ment Facility and the United Nations Development Programme. Under the Baseline Scenario, it is expected that the four coun-
tries will complete national Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans, assessing the status of biological resources and identifying
options for managing important biodiversity.



Annex 4
Page 7of14
US$1.5 million; Government of Belize, US$1.5 million; Government of Guatemala, US${J.5 mil-
lion; and Government of Honduras, US$1.0 million.
13.   Internationally financed activities: Regional. GEF-financed activities in the four participating
countries are extensive. With assistance from the Global Environment Facility, the United Na-
tions Development Programme and the United Nations Environment Programme, and bilateral
donors, the Central American Commission on Environment and Development is executing, the re-
gional program to consolidate the MBC. Additionally, the Inter-American Development Bank has
begun discussions with the Governments of Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras with respect to a
project to control transboundary pollution in the Gulf of Honduras.
14.   Internationallyfinanced activities: Mexico. A project to conserve the Mesoamerican Bio logical
Corridor in Mexico has recently been approved by the Bank's Board. The aim of the Project is
to address terrestrial biodiversity concerns and to forge critical links between terrestrial ard ma-
rine corridors through the protection of biological corridors linking natural habitats, increase en-
vironmental education and awareness, and improve land use in watersheds draining into the Car-
ibbean Sea. One of the proposed corridors links Calakmul Biosphere Reserve in Chiapas with
Sian Ka'an Biosphere Reserve, a priority protected area along the coast of Quintana Roo.
15.   Internationallyfi nanced activities: Honduras. The Mexico MBC project is complemented by a
national initiative in Honduras to conserve biodiversity in protected areas. The World
Bank/UNDP/GEF/Government of Honduras: Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project is working to
protect the integrity of natural systems in priority protected areas; along Honduras' north coast
and southernmost region of the MBRS, the project is supporting protected areas management in
four protected areas: Punta Sal, Punta Izopo, Cuero y Salado, and Pico Bonito.
16.   The Government of Honduras/Inter-American Development Bank Bay Islands Project aims to
promote sustainable development in the Bay Islands of Honduras, a part of the MBRS, through
strengthening the capacity of local institutions responsible for natural resources management, es-
tablishing a large Marine Protected Area surrounding the Bay Islands, improving environrmental
quality through waste management and water quality monitoring, and supporting environmental
education and outreach. The estimated contribution to the Baseline Scenario for project activities
totals US$24 million.
17.   Baseline activities within the Government of Honduras/World Bank Social Investment Fu rd and
the Government of Honduras/Inter-American Development Bank Secondary Cities Project will
promote improved resource management, improved access to social services (e.g., water and
sanitation) and income generation for the poor in secondary cities along the Caribbean coast of
Honduras (e.g., La Ceiba, Tela, Trujillo). As part of significantly larger projects, the estimated
contribution to the Baseline Scenario for activities in the above-mentioned areas totals US $7.5
million.
18.   The proposed Government of Honduras/World Bank Sustainable Tourism Project is designed to
help Honduras lay the foundation for sustainable growth in the tourism sector over the next three
years by: (a) developing a national strategy for sustainable tourism along the North Coast, which
includes zoning and land use planning for development of sub-regional tourism development
plans; (b) strengthening capacity in coastal municipalities to discharge their responsibilities in the
area of environmental assessment and planning and managing the development of their coastal
and marine resources for tourism and other economic activities; (c) designing and delivering
training programs in good practice and international codes of conduct in the tourism indus.ry,
tailored to the needs of NGOs, small business enterprises and commercial tourism operators, as
well as developing a voluntary environmental rating and certification program for private sector



Annex 4
Page 8of14
businesses, tourism destinations and private nature reserves; and (d) promoting and testing inno-
vative public-private partnerships in line with principles of environmentally and socially sustain-
able tourism in coastal communities throughout the project area. The latter will encourage the
participation of indigenous and other economically disadvantaged groups as key beneficiaries un-
der the project. The estimated contribution to the Baseline Scenario for project activities totals
US$4.0 million.
19.   Internationally financed activities: Belize. In Belize, the second phase of the Government of Be-
lize/UNDP/GEF Conservation of the Belize Barrier Reef Complex Project is focusing on national
priorities, including improving management of fisheries, marine environment and tourism sectors
through zoning and land use planning; consolidation of designated Marine Protected Areas; de-
velopment of environmental policies; establishment of environmental monitoring systems; pro-
motion of sustainable tourism and introduction of cost recovery mechanisms for marine conser-
vation and management. While there are synergies between the national effort and the proposed
MBRS Regional Project, the latter will focus almost exclusively on transboundary issues. Three
mid-sized projects are serving to support terrestrial biodiversity conservation in the northern,
central, and southern portions of Belize. One of these, involving the protected area at Sarstoon-
Temash, will provide the basis for linking improved natural resource management in agricultural
productive activities with conservation efforts by indigenous communities. The MSP focus on
these terrestrial habitats will provide the opportunity to improve management of the coastal inter-
face in this highly sensitive transboundary area. Finally, several communities have received
grants through the UNDP/GEF Small Grants program to protect coastal and marine resources
(e.g., Laughing Bird Caye National Park Project; Slackchwe Habitat Enhancement Project).
20.   The Government of Belize/Inter-American Development Bank Tourism Development Project
aims to increase employment opportunities, foreign exchange earnings, and government revenues
in a manner that is environmentally and culturally sustainable. The project will develop and con-
serve major Mayan archaeological sites; improve access to key tourist areas; protect the barrier
reef by seeking solutions to growing problems with water supply and sewage treatment on Caye
Caulker; increase the quantity and quality of basic tourism services; and improve the effective-
ness of key institutions in the tourism sector through institutional strengthening. The estimated
contribution to the Baseline Scenario for project activities totals US$1.8 million.
21.   Additional national-level activities in the region financed with support from international finan-
cial institutions or bilateral assistance include:
> USAID-financed activities supporting community-based management of coastal and marine resources
and capacity building of local NGOs include the Mexico Coastal Program in Quintana Roo (US$2.0
million) and the Regional Environment Program for Central America: PROARCA/COSTAS, imple-
mented with support from WWF, The Nature Conservancy, and the University of Rhode Island Cen-
ter for Coastal Resources (US$3.5 million). Within the MBRS region, the latter supports capacity
building and empowerment of local communities in the development of strategies for the sustainable
use of coastal resources focusing on pilot areas in Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras.
> Smaller bilateral initiatives include: EU financing of a CZM plan in Belize, including establishment
of a Coastal Advisory Committee (US$0.7 million); sustainable fisheries development in the Carib-
bean Basin, supported by the CARICOM nations, through the Caribbean Fisheries Resource Assess-
ment and Management Project (CFRAMP) (US$5.0 million).
22.    Activities financed by international NGOs include the WWF Mesoamerican Reef System Ecore-
gion Project. As part of its Global 200 Ecoregions Campaign, WWF is in the process of launching
a new effort for the Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef EcoRegion, which plans to focus on a biologi-



Annex 4
Page 9of14
cal assessment of the broader marine ecosystem and to determine priority interventions for treat-
ing root causes of resource degradation from a biodiversity conservation perspective. These ac-
tivities are being developed in close collaboration with the proposed (IiEF Project. WWF c 3-
financed activities include: mobilizing a constituency and tools for conservation at the regional
ecosystem level; mapping key habitats, ecosystems and biogeographic features of the ecor gion
to identify hotspots and priorities for conservation; protecting key sites and wildlife popultlions;
shaping regional development to support ecosystem conservation; and establishing long-term
conditions and strengthening human resource capacity needed to sustain conservation.
23.   There are numerous ongoing international and regional programs providing technical assistance
in coastal resources assessment, monitoring and capacity building. These include the Cari6bean
Coastal Marine Productivity Programme (CARICOMP) and the UNEP-coordinated Carib lean
Environment Programme (CEP). The Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network, a program of the
International Coral Reef Initiative, is operating in the Caribbean through several sub-node i. Nas-
cent monitoring efforts along the coast of Central America have been initiated by governrmient,
academic and NGO institutions. These could be significantly enhanced, however, by the ( iEF
supported Project under the monitoring and EIS component as a GCRMN sub-node for th West-
ern Caribbean. The Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission/ Sub-commission for :he
Caribbean is coordinating support to countries in the Wider Caribbean Region to ratify ar I adopt
actions under the protocols of the Cartagena Convention and supports scientific research, training
and monitoring of oceanographic, fisheries and biological diversity parameters.
24.   Finally, the Nature Conservancy, FOCADES (the Environment Fund of Central America], RODA
(Red de Organizaciones de Derecho Ambiental, Guatemala), and IUCN's Wetlands program are
sponsoring an Ecoregional Study of Marine Biodiversity in an effort to set priorities for marine
conservation. The Wildlife Conservation Society is financing marine environmental educ ition,
awareness, and dissemination as well as maintaining a research facility on Glovers Reef ctoll in
Belize. The Canadian College Partnership Program is working with the University Collelle of
Belize to develop capacity for watershed and water quality monitoring. The Mellon Foun lation
together with The Nature Conservancy is financing oceanographic and hydrological rese<. rch to
determine water circulation and material dispersion in the Gulf of Honduras.
25.   Smaller, complementary initiatives which promote conservation, policy reform, public as vareness
and community participation in the management of coastal and marine resources in the fo ur
MBRS countries include activities carried out by: Amigos de Sian Ka'an (Southern Quin,ana Roo
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project; Mexico); Amigos de Isla Contoy A.C. (M,xico);
Asociados Nauticos y Subacuaticos de Isla Mujeres A.C. (Mexico); communities surrour ding
Bacalar Chico National Park/Marine Reserve; Belize Audubon Society with The Summit Foun-
dation (Belize); Friends of Laughing Bird Caye (Belize); FlTNDAECO (Belize); Toledo Institute
for Environment and Development (Belize); La Alianza Trinacional del Golfo de Hondu -as
(Guatemala); the Bay Islands Conservation Association (Honduras); Fundacion Calentura Guay-
moreto (Honduras); Fundaci6n Cuero Salado (Honduras); Fundaci6n Parque Nacional Pico Bo-
nito (Honduras); Fundaci6n Parque Lanatia, Punta Sal y Texigua (Honduras), and Coral Reef
Fund for Cayos Cochinos (Honduras). The total cost of activities financed by national and inter-
national NGOs identified above is approximately US$] 0 million over the next five years.
26.    Costs. The cost of Baseline Scenario investments in the four participating countries total i US$63
million. Of these resources, approximately US$32.5 million is directed towards environi -iental
protection in coastal and marine areas; US$5.6 million for the establishment and/or strenigthening
of marine protected areas; US$3.5 million for environmental information management; IJS$ 16.4
million for sustainable use activities; and US$5.0 million for environmental education and public
awareness of coastal- and marine-related issues.



Annex 4
Page 10 of 14
27.   Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in increased environmental protec-
tion in select areas, improved wastewater treatment and concomitant improvement in water qual-
ity, introduction of safeguards in select municipalities to protect important resources from over-
development, increased capacity of public sector entities and NGOs to manage coastal and marine
resources, increased access by local communities for sustainable generation of incomes, and in-
creased awareness of threats to coastal and marine ecosystems in the four participating countries.
GEF Alternative
28.   Scope. There are many potential synergies between various national efforts identified in the
Baseline Scenario and this proposed regional effort. The GEF Alternative will build on the Base-
line Scenario specifically by: strengthening existing and creating new marine reserves in trans-
boundary areas which contain representative examples of coastal and/or marine ecosystems; de-
veloping and implementing a regional MBRS monitoring and environmental information system
involving standardized protocols for collecting, analyzing and accessing data among the four par-
ticipating countries; identifying and disseminating international best practice in sustainable tour-
ism and shared fisheries management and promoting its adoption among the four countries to re-
duce non-sustainable patterns of economic exploitation of environmental resources within the
MBRS; increasing local and national capacity for environmental management through education,
information sharing and training; and enhancing regional cooperation in the management of a re-
gional public good by creating an enabling environment for the harmonization of national policies
and regulations related to the management of coastal and marine resources and the institutional
arrangements to ensure coordination across the four countries in implementation of agreed meas-
ures for conservation and sustainable use of this transboundary marine ecosystem.
29.   With respect to the Marine Protected Areas component, site selection criteria for incremental fi-
nancing was based on the significance of the protected area with respect to contributing to MBRS
ecosystem characteristics, diversity and processes. The majority of the MPAs are located in the
two transboundary areas of the MBRS. In the transboundary areas themselves, there are several
MPAs that are separated by national boundaries and managed as separate units. Two of these bi-
national MPA complexes, situated in the Mexico-Belize and Belize-Guatemala transboundary ar-
eas respectively, will be assisted through the Project with the additional objective of promoting a
regional approach to their management. Selection of the remaining MPAs, in addition to the
aforementioned criteria, was made with the intent to ensure a spatially dispersed pattern of pro-
tected areas loosely connecting the Project's two transboundary areas.
30.    Through the Regional Environmental Information System (REIS) component, the GEF Alterna-
tive will provide the basic framework to guide the collection, processing, distribution and utiliza-
tion of data which will promote improved management of the MBRS, and supply incremental re-
sources to individuals and organizations carrying out data collection. The REIS will support a re-
liable database that can help to inform management decisions. For instance, ecological linkages
between reefs, other marine environments and coastal watersheds are mediated, partially or en-
tirely, by water flow. However, despite the importance of water currents in transporting nutrients,
pollutants, and reproductive products across ecosystem and national boundaries, there is a dearth
of data on the region's current regime and its influence on the status and processes of MBRS
reefs and other critical ecosystems. Nor is there sufficient information related to the complex
patterns of reproduction, larval dispersal, and recruitment of corals, fish, and other important reef
components; patterns which depend on the complex interaction of water flow and larval behavior.
These critical data needs will be supported through the MBRS Project.
31.    Furthermore, the GEF Alternative will support pilot activities, increase institutional capacity
through regional training activities, and interpret and disseminate information on status and trends



Annex 4
Page 11 of 14
in the health of the MBRS to guide policymaking. Through greater awareness of downstream im-
pacts of development activities on the health of the MBRS, tools and mechanisms to suppcrt good
practice, and alternatives livelihood options based on sound use, the Project will help create in-
centives for stakeholders to shift toward more sustainable use of MBRS resources. The Threat
and Root Cause Analysis conducted during Project preparation indicated a lack of public a vare-
ness of the significance of the MBRS and the issues that need to be addressed to ensure its
sustainability. A critical element to developing the political will and policies required to manage
the MBRS will be building the necessary public support to catalyze change. The GEF Alternative
will increase environmental awareness among a variety of stakeholders and promote the devel-
opment of human capacity to change practices that are detrimental to the MBRS. Finally, the
GEF Alternative will support regional coordination through a Project management structur- that
includes a Regional Steering Committee made up of representatives of CCAD, the multi-
stakeholder National Barrier Reef Committees in each country and ex-officio members of clonor
institutions; a Technical Advisory Group to support them; and Regional Technical Working
Groups that will design and oversee implementation of agreed interventions on the ground --o
protect the ecological integrity of the MBRS.
32.   Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$78.2 million, detailed as follows:
(a) increased environmental management and protection - US$32.5 million (GEFfinancing:
US$0. 0 million); (b) consolidation of a representative system of Marine Protected Areas through
support for planning, management and biodiversity monitoring - U S$I 1.0 (GEFfinancing:
US$2.7 million); (c) development of a Regional Environmental Information System - US$".8
million (GEFfinancing.- US$2.8 million); (d) promotion of sustainable uses of the MBRS -
US$18.2 million (GEFfinancing: US$1. 7 million); (e) expansion of environmental education
programs and increased public awareness - US$6.6 million (GEFfinancing - US$1.4 millicn);
and (e) regional coordination and management - US$2.5 million (GEEfinancing - US$2.4 inil-
lion).
33.   Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would enhance protection of vulnerable and
unique marine ecosystems of the second longest barrier reef in the world and assist the four par-
ticipating countries to strengthen and coordinate national policies, regulations, and instituticnal
arrangements for marine ecosystem conservation and sustainable use. Benefits generated from
this comprehensive approach would include those classified as "national" -increased
sustainability of natural resource use, greater stability in long term revenues from enhanced natu-
ral capital, and increased public awareness of environment and natural resource issues-as well
as those considered "global" in nature. Global benefits include the conservation of coastal a7id
marine biodiversity; protection of the ecological integrity of critical marine ecosystems; a re-
gional system of marine/coastal protected areas which guarantees representation of all ecosystems
present in the region, as well as functionality and stability of the MBRS; and outreach to and in-
volvement of local communities and local governments in managing natural resources.
Incremental Costs
34.   The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$63.0 million) and the cost of the
GEF Alternative (US$78.2 million) is estimated at US$15.2 million. This represents the incre-
mental cost for achieving global environmental benefits through developing integrated manage-
ment plans for the sustainable use of coastal and marine ecosystems and the diverse resources,
goods and services they provide; strengthening local and national capacity for environmenta l
management through education, information sharing and training; standardizing ecosystem
monitoring and facilitating its execution and dissemination of results throughout the region;
strengthening institutions and programs for maintenance of water quality and prevention of con-
tamination, particularly in transboundary situations; and establishing transnational coordination



Annex 4
Page 12 of 14
and cooperation mechanisms for harmonization of policies related to the conservation and sus-
tainable use of the MBRS. A GEF grant of US$1 1.0 million is proposed at this time; an additional
US$4.2 million has been committed by participating governments, NGOs and local communities
in support for the Project.



Annex 4
Page 13 of 14
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sec-         Cost        US$    Domestic Benefit                Global Benefit
tor                  Category     Million                                                             .
A. Environmriental   Baseline      32.5    Increased environmental protec-
Management and                             tion in select areas. Improved
Protection                                 water quality and wastewater
treatment/sanitation in coastal
communities. Reduced water
pollution in coastal areas, allow-
ing for increased uses of coastal
and marine resources. Increased
public sector capacity to manage
____________   ______ natural resource base.
With GEF      32.5    Same as above.
Alternative
Incremental     0                                                                        a
B. Planning, Man-    Baseline       5.6    On-going management of coastal  Some MPAs exist but they are not suffi-
agement, and                               and marine protected areas.    cient to conserve coastal and marine
Monitoring of                              Limited support for co-         biodiversity, particularly in trans-
Representative                             management of MPAs.             boundary areas.
MPAs
With GEF      11.0                                   Representative system of Marine Pro-
Alternative                                          tected Areas (MPAs) supported with
management plans and basic inf a-
structure. Increased managemert ca-
pacity for MPAs. Increased support for
co-management of MPAs, allowing
meaningful contribution from civil soci-
ety. Increased transboundary coopera-
tion in policy, protection, and manage-
ment of MPAs.
Incremental    5.0     Noe.                            e       t*           edUItRn.i
_S$2.3 miwon tt thbw d s
C. Regional Moni-    Baseline       3.5    Biophysical monitoring within
toring Program                             select marine and coastal areas
and Environ-                               of participating countries.
mental Informa-
tion System
With GEF       7.8                                    Establishment of coordinated infcma-
Alternative                                          tion system to organize and manage
data in support of improved decision-
making. Increased collection and analy-
sis of information vital for conserving
coastal and marine biodiversity, includ-
ing monitoring of coral reef ecosystem
health and factors affecting it. Inc eased
pollution monitoring, including trains-
boundary aspects of point and non-
point source pollution.
Incremental    4.3     Not: Petticpting ontries and. S fkh6kierswflfl*pvAie an addition
US$1.5      tGOO te -$i mil   i
______________________               by  ft e  GEF.



Annex 4
Page 14 of 14
Component Sec-         Cost        US$    Domestic Benefit                Global Benefit
tor                  Category     Million
D. Promotion of      Baseline      16.4    Support for activities targeted at
Sustainable Uses                           promoting sustainable coastal
of the MBRS                                and marine tourism in select
areas. Increased opportunity for
income generation for coastal
communities. Increased planning
and management capacity at
local level for sustainable coastal
and marine resource manage-
ment. Increased generation of
resources derived from sustain-
able management within tourism
sector.
With GEF      18.0                                   Increased opportunities for income
Alternative                                           generation and equitable benefit shar-
ing based upon sustainable uses of
coastal and marine resources. Best
practice guidelines for marine ecot-
ourism identified and promoted. Estab-
lishment of a joint commission on re-
gional fisheries management. Increased
local involvement in transnational man-
agement of fisheries resources.
Incremental    1.8    Note: Partpipatfing counties wll provide an addtnal US$S  I m#ilon to this
l_________                       _____           component beyond the US$1 7 miflon inanoced by ffe GEF.
E. Environmental     Baseline       5.0    Increased awareness of envi-
Education and                              ronmental issues. Increased
Increased Public                           capacity and empowerment of
Awareness                                  local communities regarding
management of local resources.
Wfth GEF       6.6                                   Increased public awareness of issues
Altemative                                           related to coastal and marine ecosys-
tem conservation and management.
Meaningful participation of local
stakeholders and participatory schemes
for sustainable natural resource man-
_________agement.
Incremental    1.6    Nwoe Parcipsting countries and stakeholters wi provie an additnal
US$42 miflion to this component beyond the US$1.4 mion fnved
:__ _b _y the GEF.
F. Program Man-      Baseline       0.0    Periodic regional consultations
agement                                    and coordination within the
framework of the Tulum Declara-
tion.
With GEF       2.5                                   Mechanism and institutional framework
Alternative                                           established for regional coordination.
Increased coordination of public and
private sector activities aimed at man-
aging marine and coastal areas and
globally significant biodiversity, particu-
larly in transboundary areas.
Effective management of investments
aimed at long-term conservation and
sustainable use of globally significant
biodiversity.
Incremental    2.5     Note Piatg countries and stakehold    will povi. an a1dditional
US$0. I mllion to tfis cmponnt beyod Fe US$2.4 mi/tn fnaned by the
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _          GEF                ._ _               _ . _ _  _ -  _ _  _ - _ _
Totals               Baseline      63.0
With GEF      78.2
Alternative                                                                              l
Total Incre-    15.2
ment
g GEF Incre-   11.0
ment .



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              1.7         3.1         2.9        2.2         1.3         11.2
Recurrent Costs               0.1         0.9         1.0         1.0        1.0         4.0
Total Project Costs            1.8        4.0         3.9         3.2         2.3        15.2
Total Financing                1.8        4.0         3.9         3.2         2.3        15.2
Financing
GEF                           1.5         3.0        2.8         2.3          1.4        11.0
Government of Mexico         0.06        0.18        0.17        0.17        0.17       0.75
Government of Belize         0.07        0.41        0.41        0.4         0.41        1.7
Government of Guatemala      0.07        0.16        0.16        0.11        0.09        0.59
GovernmentofHonduras         0.07        0.16        0.16        0.11        0.09        0.59
Non-governmental Orgs.       0.00        0.13        0.14        0.13        0.13        0.53
Total Project Financing     1.77        4.04       3.84        3.22        2.29        15.19
Main assumptions:



Annex 6
Page 1 of 12
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing, and Disbursement Arrangements
I. Procurement
A. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (re-
vised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, " published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Credit Agreement.
(1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and
the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract val-
ues for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
(a) Procurement of Works
The Project would finance small works for construction of warehouses, visitor's centers, living
quarters and trails, which will be scattered around the region, for an approximate total amount of
US$430,000 equivalent. Most of these works would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a minimum of three qualified con-
tractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of
the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agree-
ment acceptable to IBRD, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the expe-
rience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(b) Procurement of Goods
The Project would finance several contract packages for the purchase of boats, radio and com-
munication equipment, lab equipment, production of videos and printing materials, photocopiers,
faxes, computers and software, office furniture, and audio-visual and miscellaneous office
equipment estimated to cost approximately US$2.7 million equivalent. Contracts for the supply
of goods estimated to exceed US$ 100,000 equivalent shall be awarded on the basis of ICB pro-
cedures; contracts estimated to cost US$25,000 to US$100,000 equivalent (with an aggregate
amount of US$0.6 M ) may be awarded on the basis of NCB procedures, in accordance with ap-
plicable national laws; and contracts estimated to cost below US$25,000 equivalent (with an ag-
gregate amount of US$ 0.3 M) may be awarded on the basis of local or international quotations
from at least 3 firms, in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Standard
documents for NCB and Shopping procedures would be agreed before the first invitation is is-
sued.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 12
(c ) Consulting Services
The project would finance consulting services to prepare Marine Protected Areas (MPA) data
baselines and monitoring programs, to develop management plans for MPAs, to prepare strate-
gies for sustainable coastal tourism, regional fisheries management, coral reef ecosystem moni-
toring and EIS, to design information campaigns, design and provide training programs, de.ign
and supervise civil works, etc.
Firms
About 15 contracts for firms estimated to cost $ 3.1 million in aggregate would be awarded fol-
lowing a Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process, in accordance with Section II of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Sole Source Contract. It is anticipated that UNDP will be contracted directly by CCAD to as-
sist it with the management of project funds (check writing and disbursement), and with interna-
tional procurement, and the procurement of minor civil works in the three participating countries
outside of Belize This sole source contract is justified based on the history of UNDP involve.-
ment in the implementation and execution of a number of GEF financed projects with both
CCAD and the Government of Belize-- the host country for the Project Coordination Unit--and
on UTNDP's presence in all four of the participating countries. Unlike private firms which n ay
be available in Belize, UNDP has a close working relationship with governments in all four
countries. This will facilitate regional coordination by the PCU in terms of procurement anc. dis-
bursement of project funds, oversight of local procurement actions in each country and monitor-
ing of physical indicators of project performance. LTNDP's current role as implementing agent
for a national, GEF financed project to Conserve the Biological Diversity of the Belize Barrier
Reef, now in its second phase, will allow close coordination between this project and the M13RS
regional Project, a concern specifically raised by the GEF. The director of the executing agenicy
for the UNDP project-the Coastal Zone Management Authority of Belize-is also the nati nal
coordinator for the Regional MBRS Project, and the new office space to be provided by the GOB
to the MBRS PCU will be adjacent to that of the UNDP Project. This will ensure exchange of
technical information and facilitate training of Project procurement staff and creation of in-house
capacity within the Government of Belize to carry out procurement of international projects
based on best practice.
Individuals
Individual consultants, such as Fisheries Ecologists, Oceanographers and Marine Biologists wvill
be hired to carry out specific studies and provide technical assistance in connection with specific
project activities individuals would also be hired for specialized advisory services, on an as
needed basis, to the technical working groups, the Project Coordination Unit, or the Regional
Steering Committee. Hiring of those individuals shall be justified and carried out in accordance
with Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines. Long-term service contracts with individuals for
project administration and other activities would be advertised, and signed for the overall durl-
tion of the assignment, with exit clauses for poor performance ; the total amount of service cc n-
tracts with individuals is US$2.1 equivalent. The competitive process followed to select indizid-
ual consultants would be described in further detail in the Operational Manual.
2) Prior Review thresholds



Annex 6
Page 3 of 12
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment and
are summarized in Table B. All contracts awarded on a single-source basis, assignments of a
critical nature, and amendments raising contract values above the said thresholds would also be
subject to prior review. In addition, the plan and budget for Operating Costs under the Project
will be reviewed and approved by IBRD annually.
B. Assessment Of The Agency's Capacity To Implement Procurement
A procurement capacity assessment of the project office representing CCAD, was carried out in
Belize in September 2000 and a procurement action plan prepared. At the time, the Project Co-
ordination Unit had not yet been set up; only a small office to oversee project preparation and
coordination among the four countries was operational. As Project preparation (PDF Block B)
grants were Bank executed, procurement and accounting functions were housed within the Bank,
and facilitated by the Project Preparation Coordinator, based in Belmopan. Since that time, a
Project Coordination Unit consisting of a Director, an accountant and a procurement officer for
the implementation phase has been set up in interim space in Belize City, provided by the Gov-
ernment of Belize, pending completion of a new building to house the full complement of PCU
staff. The hiring of these staff notwithstanding, given the substantial procurement and training to
be carried out under the Project and the complexity of working in four different countries, the
procurement assessment and action plan recommended that a third party be hired to assist the
Project Coordination Unit in carrying out international procurement and minor civil works in the
four countries, as well as disbursement of Project funds. At the request of the four participating
governments and CCAD, UNDP has been identified to carry out these services on a sole source
basis (see justification above). The procurement officer within the PCU would be responsible for
local procurement and for overseeing procurement processes for the entire Project in accordance
with the procurement plan. He would work with the PCU accountant to prepare the PMRs and
see that annual reporting requirements, as described in the Project Implementation Manual, are
met. The PCU will also hire an assistant/secretary to help monitor procurement and disburse-
ment, assist with filing of documents, etc., no later than project effectiveness. Since his hiring,
the Project Procurement Officer has received training in Bank procurement. He will work
closely with UNDP to build capacity within the PCU and to ensure that that Bank procurement
procedures are met. A draft procurement plan has been prepared and a chapter dealing with pro-
curement will be included in the Project Implementation Manual and adopted prior to project ef-
fectiveness. The manual will describe, at a minimum:
* Staffing of the procurement unit (PCU and UNDP).
*  Organization of the procurement function including a detailed description of individual
responsibilities and appropriate internal control procedures (PCU and UNDP).
*  Thresholds for different types of procurement of goods and works and for selection of
consultants.
*  Thresholds for prior review.
*  Procedural details of the various procurement methods which are going to be used for the
Project.
*  Procedures for planning and monitoring/supervising procurement actions.
*  Reporting requirements (internally and to IBRD).



Annex 6
Page 4of12
* The Project's filing system and procedures to ensure its control, security and confidenti-
ality (for instance, one file for each process, locked file cabinets, etc.).
* Standard documents for NCB and shopping.
UNDP tasks and responsibilities
Under the MBRS Project, IJNDP will not be hired to implement the Project, but rather to carry
out prescribed administrative services on behalf of the PCU. These include: (i) all international
procurement; (ii) procurement of minor civil works in Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico a-ssoci-
ated with the Marine Protected Areas component of the Project (civil works in Belize will be
handled locally by the PCU); and (iii) handling and disbursement of Project funds .Procurement
activities will be the responsibility of UNDP/Belize, while flow of funds and disbursemeni (and
financial reporting to the PCU), will be handled by UNDP's regional office in El Salvador The
latter has extensive experience in handling funds and disbursement for Bank financed projects,
consistent with international best practice .
The MBRS Project Coordination Unit (PCU) based in Belize City will undertake all local pro-
curement for the Project, and be responsible for preparing terms of reference for consultani
services, and technical specifications for procurement of civil works and goods, as necessary,
and for coordinating all training activities The PCU will also be responsible for supervising im-
plementation of all Project procurement, ensuring cost-effectiveness and quality control at each
stage of the processes, and reporting to Bank Headquarters, as outlined in the PIM To enable the
PCU to carry out its responsibilities vis a vis procurement oversight and reporting to Bank Head-
quarters. ) To provide timely service to the PCU and prevent delays that might otherwise arise,
UNDP will carry out procurement services from their field office in Belize. The UNDP of fice in
Belmopan will maintain a dedicated Procurement Officer, a Procurement Assistant and a Secre-
tary on site to work on the Project. The UNDP procurement officer will be available to assist the
PCU in the preparation of bidding documents on a demand basis. Consistent with this, all bids in
response to RFPs will be opened and reviewed at the PCU office in Belize City.
UNDP will be responsible for further training of its own staff and that of the PCU to ensure that
the requisite skills and capacity to carry out procurement in line with the Bank's procedures and
international best practice, is created in house, within the PCU and locally in UJNDP/Belize.
UNDP will do this by either seconding UNDP/El Salvador procurement staff to Belize to provide
continuous, hands on training for a prescribed period of time, or, through periodic training to
UNDP and MBRS PCU staff as needed to implement the Project procurement plan.
UNDPfees
UNDP will be reimbursed at a flat rate of 3.2% of total funds disbursed under the Project, tp to
$11 million. Reimbursement at this rate will cover all services contracted for under the project,
including training and operating expenses. UNDP has agreed that all interest generated through
the management of project funds will revert to the MBRS Project. UNDP has also agreed to ad-
vance funds to the Project on a reimbursable (interest free basis) for the salary of PCU staff be-
tween the time of negotiations and project effectiveness, once project preparation funds are ex-
hausted. This is estimated not to exceed a period of 2-3 months. A contract between UND]' and
CCAD outlining the nature of the relationship between the Project and UNDP and the services
and reimbursement to be provided, will be drawn up by Project effectiveness.



Annex 6
Page 5of12
D. Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Grantee developed a procurement plan for project implementation which pro-
vided the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). The Pro-
curement Officer for the PPU is making final adjustments to the Procurement Plan and it will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank before negotiations. At the beginning of each calendar
year, the Grantee will update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the
coming year. The procurement plan will be kept in the project files.
E. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
Procurement supervision missions should be carried out every year by a Procurement Specialist
(PS) or Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) An initial visit will be carried out during Project
launch, to assist with preparation of initial bidding documents, and to work with UNDP/Belize
procurement staff who will be assisting the PCU. Procurement supervisions missions should in-
clude a review of (i) the procurement plan for the project, including a timetable for procurement
actions anticipated during the next 12 months;: (ii) the Project Coordination Unit's capacity to
implement the procurement plan; (iii) the PCU monitoring system for the purposes of the Proj-
ect; and (iv) complete records for one in every five contracts (for goods, works, and consulting
services, respectively). The PS or PAS should perform selected physical inspections of the
goods received and meet with selected suppliers/contractors, whenever possible. A consultant is
working with the PCU in the preparation of a system for monitoring and reporting procurement
actions which is PMR compatible and LACI compliant. However it will not be ready in time for
negotiations. Consequently the PCU is INELIGIBLE for PMR-based disbursements on pro-
curement reporting grounds at this time. The situation will be re-assessed when the consultant's
work is completed nearer to the time of project effectiveness.
The hiring of UNDP as a procurement and disbursement agent is expected to mitigate the risk
associated with administration of this regional project. The UJNDP office in Belize will be re-
assessed after the first year of implementation, and thereafter, UNDP's contract will be reviewed
annually to ensure that performance is consistent with the PCU's needs and Bank procedures as a
condition for contract renewal. In light of the arrangements outlined above to strengthen Project
procurement capacity both in-house, as well as through the services of UNDP, the Overall Pro-
curement Risk was assessed as "average." The Procurement Capacity/Action plan was approved
for negotiations by the Regional Procurement Advisor's Office on January 11, 2001.
II. Disbursement and Financial Management
A. Accounting and Financial Reporting
A financial management assessment was carried out in Belize in July 2000. It was identified that
a financial management system has not been implemented; therefore, an action plan was agreed
with the PCU to ensure that by project effectiveness an adequate financial management PMR
compliant system is in place. The necessary guidelines and technical assistance have been pro-
vided to ensure that an adequate financial management system, internal controls, monitoring
systems, and staffing of the PCU, are in place to achieve the certification of the Project's finan-



Annex 6
Page 6 of 12
cial management system under the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). The
PCU has initiated the process of implementing the action plan by organizing the unit, hiring the
accountant and procurement specialist, and contracting a consultant for the design and imple-
mentation of a Project Management Report (PMR) compliant financial management systern. The
action plan agreed upon includes key actions to: (a) design and implement a financial manage-
ment system that meets PMR requirements; (b) hire the staff needed to establish the PCU; (c)
develop administrative procedures; and (d) hire external auditors.. Although the funds will be
managed by UNDP El Salvador, the PCU will be responsible for the recording and reporting on
project activities.
The PCU will implement an adequate integrated financial management system for the Project,
including internal control systems that: (i) are in accordance with international accounting stan-
dards; (ii) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the Project;
(iii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring Project activities; and
(iv) integrate financial information, disbursements, purchasing, physical and financial progress
of Project indicators, procurement, and control of contracts, to allow the generation of quarterly
programmatic financial reports on the financial and physical advance of each component, as well
as financial information by disbursement category. The detail of these procedures will be con-
tained in the Project Implementation Plan.
B. Auditing Arrangements
An external auditor acceptable to the Bank will be contracted by the PCU to carry out an araual
fmancial audit of the Project, as required by OP/BP 10.02. The auditor will be selected according
to the Bank's Guidelines-Selection and Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. A short list of auditing firms accept-
able to the Bank has already been prepared, the TORs for the contracting of the auditors wii l be
submitted to the Bank by effectiveness. The auditors should be hired at Project inception, and
prior to commencement of each Project fiscal year thereafter, so that the interim audits can be
performed throughout each year of Project implementation. The Project financial statements, the
statement of transfer of funds to UNDP, SOEs (if applicable), and the PMRs will be audited. at
the end of each fiscal year during Project implementation. An audited report of the Project linan-
cial statements will be submitted to the Bank within 120 days of the close of the Project's finan-
cial year. The Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by "he
World Bank in the Latin American and the Caribbean Region should be followed by the PCU
when preparing the terms of reference for the audit and these guidelines should be provided to
the selected auditors.
C. Disbursement Procedures
The Bank and the Borrower have agreed that if by Project effectiveness, the PCU has not irmple-
mented a PMR compliant system, but has in place a financial system that meets minimum Bank
requirements, the traditional disbursement procedures will be used for the first two quarters of
Project implementation, in accordance with the guidelines set in the Disbursement Procedures
Handbook. SOE documentation will be maintained by the PCU for post-review and audit pur-
poses. The authorized transfer(s) to UNDP, for Non-PMR disbursements will be set at a level
sufficient to cover approximately six months of estimated expenditures eligible for financing by



Annex 6
Page 7 of 12
the Bank. Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the
previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement
applications. Deposits into the UNDP project account and its replenishments, up to an amount of
6 months of eligible project needs, will be made on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals
(Form 1903) accompanied by the supporting and other documentation specified in the Disburse-
ment Handbook. Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for expenditures un-
der contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 for goods (except the 1 . and 2nd. contracts under
NCB and shopping procedures); US$100,000 for consulting firm; US$ 50,000 for individual
consultants; all training expenditures; and all operating costs.
D. Retroactive Financing
UJNDP has agreed to facilitate Project Coordnation unit expenditures on a retroactive financing
basis in the event that Project Preparation Grant (PDF) funds are inadequate to cover these costs
through the period to Project effectiveness.
E. Use of Project Management Report (PMRs):
By the end of the second quarter of Project implementation, or earlier if the PCU is compliant
and requests transition to a full PMR system, the PMRs would serve as disbursement requests.
Transition to PMR will be subject to the satisfactory results of new financial management and
procurement assessments. Once the borrower becomes PMR compliant, disbursements would be
in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Imple-
mentation Handbook. Each application for withdrawal should separately identify the funds re-
quested from the GEF grant Account, and would be supported by a PMR or such other docu-
ments and evidence as the Bank may request. PMRs should be submitted within 45 days from
the preceding quarter. Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal, the Bank, on behalf of
the Borrower, shall withdraw from the GEF grant account and deposit into the UNDP project
account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount requested; and (b) the amount the Bank
has determined, based on the PMR accompanying the application, is required to be deposited in
order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month period following the date of the re-
port, but in no case should exceed 20% of the total grant funds, without prior authorization from
the Loan department. The PCU would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications and
the related PMRs. All supporting documentation authenticating the expenditures reported in the
PMRs would be maintained by the PCU and made available for review by independent auditors
and by the Bank supervision missions. Direct Payments and Special Commitments should be
clearly identified in the PMRs and the PCU shall include the documentation required for these
types of payments.
F. Flow Of Funds
The Project funds will be transferred into a designated account by UNDP Headquarters, from
where funds will be transferred to UNDP /El Salvador into separate bank account in US Dollars.
The PCU will be responsible for submitting appropriate disbursement applications to request the
transfer of funds to UNDP. Replenishments of funds under SOEs will be made on evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the previous advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted
in support of disbursement applications. A separate special account at a local bank in Belize will



Annex 6
Page 8 of 12
be maintained to cover operating costs of the PCU. This will be maintained through quarterly
advances from the Bank's grant account, based on SOEs from the prior quarter and PCU esl i-
mates of costs for the upcoming quarter. Deposits into the Project account at UNDP Headquar-
ters and its replenishments, up to the Authorized amounts, will be made initially on the basis of
Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other docu-
mentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Once the PCU is PMR compliant, and is
certified as such by the Bank, and disbursements are PMR based, any subsequent disbursenment
from the GEF grant account would be to cover estimated eligible expenditures for the next six-
months of cash forecast reported in the PMR, as described hereafter.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 12
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ Million equivalent)
k
N~~~~~ ~
1. Works                                            0.43                  0.43
( )  ( )       ( ~~0.43 )  ()       (0.43)
2. Goods                       1.57      0.57       0.30        0.24      2.68
(1.57)    (0.57)    (0.30)2      (         (2.44)
3. Services                                         4.70       0.46       5.16
( )      ( )         (4.70)3              (4.70)
4. Training                                         2.30       0.65      2.95
( )      ( )          (2.30)              (2.30)
5. Operating Costs                                 1.14        2.88      4.02
(1.14)               (1.14)
GEF Total                     1.57     0.57        8.87        0.00     11.00
Project Total                 1.57     0.57        8.87        4.23     15.24
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elemients procured under parallel co-financing procedures, consultan-
cies under trust funds, any reserved procurernent, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement
for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the
table or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
1 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrange-
ments for Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in
the Table Al format (additional to Table A, where applicable).
2 Shopping.
3 QCBS and Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines, as applicable.



Ainex 6
Page 10 of 12
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ Million equivalent)
QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other*   N.B.F
A. Firms                3.1                                     0.352             3.452
(3.1)    ()       ()     ()      () ( )          ( )    (3.1)_
B. Individuals          0                                       2.1              2.1
(0.0)    ()       ()    ()    ()(.1)4             ( )    (2.1)
Total                    3.1                                     2.1              5.2
(3.1 ) ()         ()     ()      () (2.1)         ()     (5.2)_
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, itc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
* Other: under firms refers to UNDP's fee of 3.2%
4Selection according to Chapter V of the Consultant Guidelines. Competitive procedures de-
tailed in the Implementation Manual.



Annex 6
Page 11 of 12
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Reviews
Expenditure            'Contiet Vi=e            Pr i;e4t
Categ!gry              (ThrffWd) -   -__, -_______;                                         _
US$ Thousands                                   US$ Millions
1. Works
Irrespective of amount    Price comparison      First 2 contracts
2. Goods                >100,000                ICB                     All
(1.3)
100,000-25,000
NCB                     First 2 contracts
(0.4)
<25,000                 Shopping                First 2 contracts
(0.2)
3. Services
(a) Consulting Firms    Irrespective of amount    QCBS                  All contract estimnated to
cost more than
US$100,000
(3.2)
All TORs for contracts
below US$100,000
Sole source to UNDP     All
(b) Individuals         Irrespective of amount    Section V of the Consult-  All contracts estimated to
ant Guidelines          cost more than
US$50,000
(2.2)
All TORs for contracts
below US$50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 month(s) (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits)
S Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6
Page 12 of 12
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Works                       0.39 (=0.32 SDR)              100% if UNDP, 85% otherwise
2. Goods                       2.20 (= 1.70 SDR)             100% if UNDP, 85% otherwise
3. Consulting Services         4.23 (= 3.25 SDR)             100
4. Training                    2.07 ( 1.60 SDR)              100
5. Operating Costs             1.03 (=.80 SDR)               100% if UNDP, 85% otherwise
6. Unallocated                 1.08 (= .83 SDR)              N.A.
Total                            11.00 (= 8.50 SDR)



Annex 7
Pagel of 1
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 7
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                              Planned                  Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    30 months              36 months
First Bank mission (identification)        November 1997           November 1997
Appraisal mission departure                September 2000
Negotiations                               November 2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness               March 1, 2000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Marea Hatziolos, TTL                   Coastal and Marine Resources Management
John KeDenberg                          Natural Resource Economics
Arsenio Rodriguez                       Environmental and Natural Resources Management
Juan Martinez                           Social Science, Indigenous People
Luz Zeron                               Financial Management
Irani Escolano                          Procurement
Ferenc Molnar                           Legal
Jeff Lecksell                           Cartography
Katherin George Golitzen                Editing and Quality Control
Lourdes Guzzone                         Contracting and SAP/Team Assistant
Bari Rabin                              Operations Analyst



Annex 8
Pagel of 1
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Svstem
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File*
Preliminary List
Studies Prepared under the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Systems Project (MIBRSi (Preparation
Phase)
I . Sale, P. et al. 1999. Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System -
guidelines for Developing a Regional Environmental Information and Monitoring Ss stem. World
Bank/Government of Canada Trust Funds
2. University of Miami/RSMAS. 1999. Atlantic and Gulf Rapid Reef Assessment (AGRRA).
Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Workshop, Final Report to the World Bank. World
Bank/Netherlands Environmental Partnership Fund.
3. Kramer, P. and Kramer P. 2000. Ecological Status of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reet System - Im-
pacts of Hurricane Mitch and 1998 Coral Bleaching. University of Miami-RSMAS/ lWorld Bank.
4. FAO. 2000. Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System. Threat
and Root Cause Analysis (+ 4 National Reports). Investment Centre, FAO/World Banik Coopera-
tive Program.
5. FAO. 2000. Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System. Institu-
tions Study. Investment Centre, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
6. Dulin, P. 2000. Environmental Assessment of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Syste m Project
(MBRS). World Bank/GEF PDF Block B.
7. IDEADS. 2000. Diagnostico Sobre Armonizaci6n de Legislaci6n, Politicas y Coordinacion Institu-
cional para el Manejo del Sistema Arrecifal Mesoamericano (SAM) (+ 4 National Resorts). World
Bank/GEF PDF Block B.
8. Silva, M. 2000. Analisis Social del Area de Influencia del Sistema de Arrecife Mesoamericano
(SAM) (+ 4 National Reports). World Bank/PDF Block B.
9. Barborak, J. 2000. in draft. Marine Protected Areas and Public Awareness and Educal ion - Guide-
lines for the Development of MBRS Project Components.
*Including electronic files



Annex 9
Page 1 of 5
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Belize
Active Projects                                                                                                Difference between
Original Amount in USS Millions        Expected and Actual
Disbursements Z
Project ID   r&ect Name                                    Fiscal Year IBRD  ID    GRANT  Cancel Undisb Orig  rm Rev'd
P040150    ROADS AND MUNICIPAL DRAINAGE PROJECT   2001                     13              0        0      13 A                   I
P039292    SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                                1997          7    0         0        0    3.4  2.6                 0
Result                                                     [ Result        20    0         0        0   16.4  2.6
Belize
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/3 1/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                          Disbursed
FY Approval    Company               Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1993 BECOL                     5         0       0       0      5        0        0       0
1998 Nova/Ambergris           5.5        0       0       0    5.5        0        0       0
Total Portfolio:             10.5       0        0       0   10.5        0       0        0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000 BAL                    10000        0       0       0
Total Pending Commitment:        10000        0       0        0



Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
Statement of Loans and Credits
Guatemala
Active Projects                                              Original Amount in US$      Difference Between Ex-
Millions            pected and Actual Dis-
bursements
roject ID Project Name                          Fiscal Year IBD  IDI Expected CanceL  Undisb.  Orig.         F;m
and Ac-                              Rev'd
____ __   ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ __B    ___     tual
P048657  GT INTEG FIN MGMT 11                      1998     15.7              0      (       5.3    5.3   _
P047039  GT JUDICIAL REFORM                        1999      33       _       0      0      29.8    7.3         0
048654   T TAX ADMIN. TAL                         1998    28.2       _ _  0   _  0         24.5   24.5         0
p007223  GT/BASIC EDUCATION REFORM                 1997      33       _              0      10.3     -11        C
P040198 GT/FISII                                   1999       5=                     0       8.2  -24.1 |    0
P049386  GT/RECONSTRUCTION & LOCAL DEV.   1999                30 3            o      0      27.3    8.9 9
P049616  'AND ADMINISTRATION                       1999       31 -                   0      26.4     7_ 
P054462  LAND FUND                                 1999       23    (                0      22.8    7.2         0
P048756  PRIV PRTCPTN INFR TA                      1997       13 -                   0       9.8    8. _9C
P035737  RURAL & MAIN ROADS                        1998    66.7    (          0      (      48.9    3.8         0
Result                                            Result  323. f    I(        0      0    213.=   47.-I         0
Guatemala
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/31/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                        Disbursed
FY Approval Company    Loan  EquityQuasi Partic  Loan    Equity    Quasi Partic
1997Aceros          13.5     0     0   9.33     13.5        0      0       9.33
1994Fabrigas        2.63     0     1      0    2.63         0       1         0
2000 Frutera           7    0      0      0        7        0       0         0
1998La Fragua         20     0     0      0      20         0      0          0
19970rzunil        12.91  1.17     0   14.7   12.91      1.17      0       14.7
1996Pantaleon       12.5     0     0      0    12.5         0      0          0
1993/96    Puerto Quetzal     0    0      0      0       0         0      0          0
1993Vigua           4.13     0     0      0    4.13         0      0          0
Total Portfolio:     72.67  1.17     1  24.03   72.67      1.17      1      24.03
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic



Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
Statement of Loans and Credits
Honduras
Active Projects                                                            Original Amount in USS Millions Difference Between Expected and
Actual Disburscments'
|roject ID    Project Name                                     Fiscal Year IBRD   IDAI GRANT Cancel Undisbl             Orig.  Frm Rev'
3044343       BIODIVERSITY PROJ                                   1998         (7 0(    5.                                2.8
|007396       ENVIRON. DEVELOPMENT                                1995         0  10.           (        0 _    1          1.6          1.6
L060785       HN ECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT PROJECT    2001    _                0    1           (       (    18.6 t
|P007387       HN PUB SEC MOD SAC                                  1996         0 115.7                  ( 0   26.7        1.1         36.81
P007399          /B ASIC EDUCATION                                 1995         0    30         0              5.4         7.9            Oil
P048651       HFHIS IV                                             1999         0  67.5         0        0   22.9        -16.3            Oi0
P007392       H/NUTRITION/HEALTH                                   1993         0  35.4         0        0_      3        -7.9          2.7
P057350        ROFUTURO                                           1999               8.3       _         0    6.4          1.1 :
P007398         URAL LAND MGMT                                    1997          0    34           (   .       15.          10            1
P007388         RNSPRT SCTR RHB                                    1993    -        0 8         (        0     7.4       -12.9          7.3
|Result                                                           Result        0 405.          7            112.3       -12.          58.3
Honduras
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/31/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                          Disbursed
FY Approval    Company               Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998 CaminoReal Plaz           10        0       0       0       8        0       0       0
1995/98         Elcosa                     0        0       0       0      0         0       0       0
1986/99         Granjas Marinas            6        0       0       0      6         0       0       0
Total Portfolio:               16        0       0       0     14         0       0       0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000 Agropalma               7000        0       0       0
1999 Celtel Honduras        5000         0    5000  15000
Total Pending Commitment:        12000        0   5000  15000



Annex 9
Pago 4 of 5
Statement of Loans and Credits
Mexico
Active Projects                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions   Difference Between Ex ected
and Actual Disbursenents'
Project ID       Project Name                                     Fiscal Year      IBRD    ID   GRAN' Cancel. Unndisb.             Orig.      Frm
___________                                                                            ________        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rev'
?048505          AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                                1999           444.       (                 C   266.3          203 _ Rev'
306071 8         ALTERNATIVE ENERGY                                  2000                                        C _   _   7.5 2_6 _
?007726          AQUACULTURE                                         1997    _                                   C_       (            C _ 
P067491          Bank Restructuring Facility                         2000           50S._                         C     15         1449 S        (
P007700          COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                  1997        (_       C_                             7.2.__ _C
P043163           'EDERAL ROADS MODZTN                               1997                                        C_                    (_C
P007610           'OVI RESTRUCTURING                                 1999             50_       (_                      462        295_  _.
P007723          HWY RHB & SAFETY                                    1993             48_(_(_(                                             __ (
p044531          KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                                  1998             30C   251_2 31.5
P007648       M    EDIUM CITIES TRANSP                               1993             20 (        _              23   1061         1 29.     106 . 
P066938          MX GENDER (LIL)                                     2000             3.1      ((                       31 ]              _
?007720          MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                      1998            70  _                 _            350          35(         C
?040199          MX: BASICEDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I                   1998            11:       (                 C    68.1          309   __ C
?007689          MX: BASIC HEALTH                                    1996            310                         C    901 7           73        6
?055061          MX: HEALTH SYSTEMREFORM TA                          1998             (2  _                            14__     E   _    _.
p049895          MX: HIGHER ED. FINANCING                            1998           180.:      (                      164.6         36 7__    3
P007725          MX: PRIMARY EDUC.II                                 1994            41  _                      4C     63.5        103.5      63.5
P034490          MX: TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                         1995            265       (                3C    120.5        1505_    5.5
P07710             .BORDERIENVIRONM                                  1994            361       (         0    301      36.         3233.      47.1
p007701            N-FARM& MINOR IRRI                                1994            20    -                    3      49.          79.5      13
P050429            ZONEPROTECTION III                                1998                               131 1           10.1        -1 S _.
?007711           URALDEV. MARG.AREA                                 1998              4'(                             332          13_6 _
P057530           URALDEVMARG.ARII                                   2000              5       (         (_ C_51A_                   01_         C
07732              URAL FIN. MKTS T.A.                               1997                                        C                     C         C
7702           ECOND DECENTRALZTN                                 1995                      (         (                (       _
?007612       SOLID WASTE II                                      1994            20(       (         (   193.1       1.5        -4.5       1.5
?007713       WATERRESOURCES MANA                                 1996           186.C   132                                     67        12.8
esult                                                              Result |       5516.                13   617.1  2441. 1866.              3185



Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
Mexico
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/31/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                           Disbursed
FY Approval              Company           Loan      Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan    Equity Quasi Patic
1988/91/92/93/95        Apasco                   12.6       0       0     50.4      12.6     0     0       50.4
1998Ayvi                      10       0       0        0       10      0     0         0
1990/92/96              BANAMEX                 96.21       0       0    45.18    96.21      0     0     45.18
1997BancoBilbaoMXC         70.59       0      30        0    70.59      0    30         0
1992Banorte-SABROZA            3       0       0        0        3      0     0         0
1995196                 Baring Mex. FMC            0      0.02      0        0        0   0.02     0         0
1995/99                 Baring Venture             0      2.73      0        0        0      0     0         0
1998CIMAMexico                 0      4.8      0        0        0    4.8     0         0
1998CIMA Puebla                7        0      0        0       3.5     0     0          0
1994CTAPV                   3.73        0   2.32        0      3.73     0  2.32          0
OChiapas-Propalma           0      0.8      0        0        0   0.31     0          0
1997Comercializadora        3.06        0   2.19     6.25      3.06     0  2.19       6.25
1999Corsa                     13        3      0        0       13      3     0          0
1993Derivados                2 2        0      0        0       2.2     0     0          0
1997Fondo Chiapas              0      4.2      0        0        0   0.43     0         0
1998FotjaMonterrey            13        3      0       13        13     3     0         13
1991/96                 GIBSA                   21.64       0      10    72.76    21.64      0    10     72.76
1993GIDESA                  6.25        8      0     4.25      6.25     8     0       4.25
1996/00                 GIRSA                     45        0       0       60    22.71      0     0      30.29
1993GOTM                    0.82        0      0     0.22      0.82     0     0       0.22
1997/98                 Gen. Hipotecaiia           0       1.2      0        0        0      0     0         0
1998Grupo Calidra             12        6      0       10        12     6     0         10
1989GrupoFEMSA                 0     9.43      0        0        0   9.43     0          0
1997GrupoMinsa                18       10      0       27       18    10      0         27
1992/93/95/96/99        GrupoPosadas              25        0      10       10       25      0    10        10
1992/96/97/98           GrupoProbursa              0      1.32      0        0        0   1.32     0         0
1998Grupo Sanfandila        9.58       0       0       4.7     6.25     0     0       3.03
1994/96/98/00           HellerFinancial            0      0.32      0        0        0   0.32     0         0
20001TR                       14        0      0        4      10.9     0      0       3.1
19941ntercerainic              8       0       6       3.5       8      0     6        3.5
2000InverCap                   0        1      0        0        0      1     0          0
1993Masterpak                2.4       0       0        0       2.4     0     0          0
1998Merida III                30       0       0    73.95    27.36      0     0      67.44
1995/99                 MexplusPuertos             0      1.41      0        0        0   1.41     0         0
1996/99/00              NEMAK                      0        0   0.83         0        0      0  0.83         0
1998Punta Langosta          2.63        1      0     4.55      2.63     1     0       4.55
2000Rio Bravo                 50        0      0      59.5    22.83     0      0     27.17
2000Saltillo S.A.             35        0      0       43         0     0      0         0
1999Sudamerica                 0       15      0        0        0    15      0         0
1997TMA                     2.77        0    2.1      9.6      2.77     0   2.1        9.6
1992Toluca Toll Road        7.16        0      0        0      7.16     0     0         0
1991/92                 Vitro                      0        0       0        0        0      0     0         0
1991 Vitro Flotado          4.96        0      0     2.07      4.96     0     0       2.07
1998ZNMxcEqtyFund              0     25.3      0        0        0   9.81     0          0
Total Portfolio:                 529.6   98.53  63.44   503.93   432.57  74.85 63.44    389.81
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity   Quasi  Partic
2000Teksid Aluminio        25000        0      0        0
2000Teksid Hierro          15000        0      0   30000
1999BANAMEX LRF 11         50000        0      0        0
1999Baring BMPEF FMC           0       60      0        0
1998Cima Hermosillo         7000        0      0        0
2000Educacion               9700        0      0        0
2000FCCM                   10500    2000       0    17700
2000Hospital ABC           30000        0      0    14000
20001nnopack               15000   15000       0        0
Total Pending Commitment:            162200   17060       0   61700



Annex 10
Pagel of 5
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 10
Countries at a Glance
Belize, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico



Belize at a glance
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
iz1ke   & Carib.   income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        0.25       509      2.094                  Lfeexpectancy
GNP per capita (Atas method. USS)                     2.730      3.840     1.200
GNP (Atas method. USS b/hons)                          0.67      1.955     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population t%)                                          3.1        16        1.1
Labor force (1)                                         4At        2.5       1.2      GNP                              Gross
per                   /        pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest yer avail . 1993-991                                     capita  <                    enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poveaty &in)
Urban population (1 of /otal populabion)                 53         75        43
Life expectancy at bir1J(yers)                           75        70        e9
Infant mortaity (pR? i000 Ihe births)                    28         31        33
Child mainutrition (% of chithn under)                      ..       a        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (1 of populain)          73         75        66
illiteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                       7         12        16
Gross primary enrollment (%of schoolage populabtion)    121        113       114               Bele
Male                                                  123                  114               Lower-middJe4ncome grup
Female                                                119                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
lEoonomhi ratos-
GOP (USS billions)                            0.15     0.36       0.68      0.73
Gross domestic investrenUGDP                     .     30.3       23.0      24.2                      Trade
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                      59.7       50.0      4.8 
Gross domestic savings/GOP                             20.9       15.9      14.5
Gross national savings/GOP                             25.1       16.9      16.2
Current account babance/GDP                             -5.0      -8.2      -8.0      4omestc
Interest payments/GDP                          0.4      1.7        2.2       2.2        So                         InvesTm
Total debt/GDP                                47.2     39.9       50.0      49.4      Savings
Total debt servicelexpcrts                              8.5       12.3      10.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                         45.0
Present value of debtUexports                                     82.2
Indebtednes
1979-89  1911-111    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                   3.9      41       4.5        4.5       5.2                Behze
GNP percapita                         1.0      1.0     -0.2        1.1       2.1            -  Lower-middleooxme goup
Exports of goods and services         6.8      2.1 t    0.6        6.9       4.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                   _
1979     1989       1998      199       Grwthof invesUnetand GOP(%
(% of GDP)                                                                           40
Agriculture                                   30.8     20.4       18.9      18.6
Industry                                      21.9    -           25.5      25.0     20
Manufacturing                               15.1      16.4      15.1       14.8      oOqm..-'          2               >
Services                                      47.3     53.1       55.6      58.3    -20                       97    s    g
Private consumpton                                     63.9       64.2      68.0    J0 -
General govemment consumption                          15.2       19.9      17.5
Imports of goods and services                          69.1       57.2      58.4
(average annual growth)                    197949  19111-9       1998       1999     Greowt of expoet aW  Impeoe (%)
Agriculture                                    2.2      6.4       -1.5      11.7    20
IndustrY                                       3.9      3.1       -1.0       4.6    10.
Manufacturing                                3.2      3.5       -2.9       4.8                         d
Services                                       4.1      2.8        4.0       4.7
Private consumption                            0.0      4.2        9.5      10.6   .n _
General govemment consumption                  0.9      7.7        4.6      -8.4
Gross domestic investmen                       6.6      0.1        1.6       9.7   .20
Imports of goods and services                  2.2      1.7        3.9      11.5                   Epw        4leipou
Gross national product                         3.7      3.9        3.8       4.6
Note: 1999 data are prelininary estmate
The diamonds show four key indicator in the acouvty (in boid) compared with its incomegroup averge. If dia are missg the diamond wili
be incomplete.



Guatemala at a glance                                                               g,1v0
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Guatenala   & Carib.  income       Dvelopment dihmoncd
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                       11.1       509     2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfas method. USS)                   1.660     3,840     1.200
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                      18.4     1.955     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Populabon (%I                                         2.6        1.6       11
Labor forre(I`%)                                       3.6       2.5       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Moat recent estimate (latest                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per             pnary
Most recent eatfmate Patest vow avaiLabie. 11993-991                               capita                      enrolmwet
Poverty (% of populaoton beoiw natfional poverty line)  75
Urban popuiation (% of total popuaion)                 39         75        43
Life expectancy at bith (years)                        64         70        69
Infant mortaity (Rert O00 Ive birSts)                  37         31        33
Child malnutrition (% of chiden under 5)             0 27          8        15               Acces to safew  e
Access to improved water source (% of populatiWon)     67         75        86
Illiteracy (% of popuation age IS+)                    32         12        16
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoo-age populabton)    88        113       114              Guaterab
male                                                 93                  114              Lower-mrierincome group
Female                                               83                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1939       1998      1999
Econom.rsoe
GOP (USS billions)                            6.9      8.4      18.9      18.0
Gross domestic investnent/GDP                18.7     13.5      16.0      15.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP           21.3      17.3      18.6      18.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   14.2      8.3       7.7       8.3
Gross national savingsiGOP                   16.1      8.0      10.5      11.5
Current account balance/GOP                  -3.0     -5.4      -5.5       -5.3    Domestic         A
Interest payments/GDP                         0.7      1.3       0.7       0.8     SavingI nes-
Total debt/GDP                               1S82     31.5      20.9      226       avgs
Total debt serie/exports                      7.3     19.6       9.8       9.6
Present value of debtGDP                                        22.6
Present value of debt/exports                                  1G5.2
Indebtednes
1979489  1989-99    1998       1999   1999403
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.4      4.1       5.1       3.5       5.0               Guatemais
GNP per capita                     -2.3      1.5      2.8        0.6       2.4               I o0We%r-inomN   gnouP
Exports of goods and services       -3.7     6.5      6.0        4.8       7.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMNY
1979     1989      1998      1m9       GreowhofnvestinmntandGOP(%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                 25.4      25.6      23.4      23.1
Industry                                    21.5    -20.1       20.0      20.1    15.
Manufactunng                               16.3     15.2       13.5      13.4
Services                                    53.1      54.3      56.6      56.8      0                      9    9
Private consumption                         78.7     83.8       86.8      85.9    .1s -
General govemment consumption                7.1       7.9       5.6       5.8                           -
Imports of goods and services               25.9     22.5       26.9      26.2
1979s4   1989-I 9     1998      1999     Grwth of expons and wmpom (%)
(averi3ge annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.7       2.9       3.5       2.2    '°
Industry                                     -0.6      4.2       5.2       4.1    20
Manufacturing                              -0.3      2.8        3.6       2.6
Services                                     0.6      4.6        5.8       3.7     ro-
Pnvate consumption                           0.8       4.3       5.5       3.0     o
General govemment consumption                2.8      4.5       10.6       4.8            9    95  v       C7   gm
Gross dofesftic investment                   -3.3      5.2      21.9      -4.0   .10 -
Imports of goods and servces                 -4.2      9.0      23.0      -1.7                  E        _rwn 
Gross national product                       0.1       4.2       5.5       3.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
T;-. t jamn ' =  -     -,r 1e- indicators in the country (in bold) wompared with its income-group average. I data are nmissq  the d bon owil
j.a iconl'!



Honduras at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Honduras   & Carib.  Income       O.velopmet diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       6.3       509      2.094                 Life expecbncy
GNP per capita (Atls mehod USS)                       760      3.840     1,200
GNP (Alas methodx USS billions)                        4.8     1,955     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                         2.8       1.6       1.1
Labor force (%)                                        3.8       2.5       1.2     GNP                  \Gros
per                           pnnu-y
Moet recant estimate (latest year available, 1993-919                              capita                            ent
Poverty (% o? populaffon below national poverty line)  53
Urban population (% of toal population)                52         75       43
Lfe expectancy at bio1yars)                            69        70        69
Infant mortality (pi-i;000 live 0irths)                36        31        33
Child malnutrtion (% of chi~den under 5)              * 25         a        1S               Access to safe YAe
Acces to improved water source (% ofpopuMbon)          65         75        86
Illiteracy (% of populatbn aga 15+)                    26         12       16
Gross primary enrollment % of scooage population)     111        113       114              Hondu,as
Male                                                110         ..      114               Lower-midd-e-cme gnxp
Fenale                                              112         ..      116                                              ,
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1S89      1998      1999
EconomiG raeo
GDP (USS billions)                           2.3      5.2        5.2       5.4
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                26.8     19.1      30.8      32.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           36.6     29.0       47.2      42.9
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                    22.0     13.7      24.6      19.1
Gross national savings/GOP                   18.0     9.9       25.3      22.9                       A
Current ccount balance/GDP                   -8.8     *7.9      -5.5    -10.0      Dome 
Interet payments/GDP                         2.7      0.9        3.5       3.2     SavengssIwnt
Total debt/GOP                               52.6    65.5       95.3      99.4     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  20.5      12.6      18.2      13.4
Present value of debtUGOP                      ..      ..       61.4
Present value of debtlexports                 ..       ..    116.2
kidebtedre
197949  198-99      1998       1999   1999403
(avrage annual growth)
GOP                                 2.4      3.2      2.9       -1.9       5.3               HonJuras
GNP per capita                     -0.7       0.8     0.4       -3.9       2.8           -  Loer-mlecomgrup
Exports of goods and services       0.5       1.5     0.3       -9.4       9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of nvestmentt N GOP 1%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  25.6    21.1       19.2      16.2
Industry                                     24.4    -24.7      30.4      31.9    20
Manufactunng                               15.1     15.0      18.6      19.6     10-
Services                                    50.0     54.2       50.4      51.9      0
Private consumption                         67.0     72.0       65.3      69.4    .10 -
General government consumption               10.9    14.3       10.1      11.4               -    D      --GDP
Imports of goods and services               41.4     34.4       53.3      56.7
1979489  1919-99      1998      1999     Growth of expors anid lert I%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                    2.4     2.4       -2.9      -8.7    iS
Industry                                     2.9      3.5        4.2       4.0    10-
Manufacturing                               3.0      3.8       3.4       2.6
Servcs                                       2.3      3.5   -   5.6       -0.2
Private consumption                          2.8      3.0        3.4       0.8                                       so
General govemment consumption                3.9      -0.6      21.7      10.9
Gross domesbc investment                     0.0      8.0        2.8       4.7   .10 -
Impors of goods and services                 0.1      3.6        5.9       6.7               -Expo       e_PM
Gross national product                       2.5      3.7        3.3      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four key idicator in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing te dimnone wil
be incomplete.



Mexico at a glance                                                               WS=
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Ameica   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  income       Deveiopme. diamwd
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                       97.4       509       573                 Uifa expeGCcy
GNP per capita (Atas method. USS)                    4.410     3,840     4,900
GNP (Atas method. USS billions)                      429.6     1.955     2.811
Aveage annual growth, 1993-99
Popuaion ()                                            1.7       1.6       1.4     G
Labor force()                                          3.0       2.5       2.1     GNP                             Gwrss
Most recent etimate (latest year avaiable, 1993.991                                capita               > /       nt
Poverty (% of population below natbonal povertyi .i.)
Urban populaton (% of total population)                74         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (Years)                       72         70        70
Infant mortality (p4OO kmv births)                     30         31        27
Child malnutition ( of chlkiren under 5)                ..         8         7                Acss to s    _le
Access to improved wete source (% ofpopuanon)          83         75        78
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                     9         12        10
Gross primary enrollment (6 of schoolge popuatin)     114        113       109
Male                                                116          ..        .              Upper-      ri_9mts
Female                                              113         ..        ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     19S9      1998      1909
Economic rules'
GOP (USS billions)                          134.5    223.0     416.3    483.7
Gross domestic invesutenVGDP                 26.0     22.9      24.3      23.2                     rade
Exports of goods and serviceslGOP            11.2     19.0      30.8      30.8
Groms domestic savings/GOP                   24.7     22.9      22.3      21.9
Gross national savings/GOP                   21.7     20.3      20.5      20.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -4.1     -2.6      -3.9      -2.9     Dom s\
Interest payments/GOP                         2.5      3.5       2.4       1.7     oaviestc        <   >        nvenent
Total debt/GOP                               31.8     42.1      38.4      34.0     S gs
Total debt servie/exports                    72.4     32.9      19.2      24.6
Present value of debt/GDP                      .        .       37.4      33.0
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..     111.5    100.4
197949  1989-99     1998      1t999   1999.03
(average annual gmwth)
GOP                                  1.3      2.9      4.8       3.7       4.9       .
GNP per capita                      -0.9      1.1      3.1       2.5       3.2           ------ UPpw-dd-- =rUp
Exports of goods and services        84      13.6     12.0      13.9       7.4    _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                          ___
1979     1989      199S      '19      Growth of inves5aentmj GMP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agrcuture                                     9.8      7.8       5.3       5.0
Industry                                     33.4   .29.4       28.5      28.2    20 -               /-
Manufacturing                              22.7     21.9       21.3     21.1      o__
Services                                    56.7      62.9      66.3      66.8    -"    94 \               w    s    g
Private consumption                          64.4     68S.9     67.3      68.0     4 -
General government consumption               10.9      8.3      10.4      10.0
Imports of goods and senrices                12.5     19.1      32.8      32.0
197949  1989-9.9      1998      19ff     G          eupaft a" uWi e-e 
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.2      1.7       0.8       3.53 3
Industry                                      0.9      3.5       6.3       3.8    Is
Manufacturing                               1.1      4.0        7.3       4.1
Service                                       1.8      2.7       4.5       3.8     o
Private consumnpbon                           1.4      2.2       5.5       4.3    .s- 
General govewment consumpbon                  3.1      1.7       2.2       1.0
Gros domestic invesiyient                    -4.3      4.3       9.5       1.5    4.
Imports of goods and services                -1.1     11.9      16.5      12.8           ~                   _
Gross nabonal product                         1.2      2.9       4.8       4.2
Note: 1999 data are preiminary estimate
*The dianonds showf out key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its incoerp average. If data   nwi    the diwmiond v
be incomplete.



Annex I 1
Page 1 of 34
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 11
Environmental Assessment]
I.    INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.    The main goals of the regional MBRS project are to facilitate enhanced protection of vulner-
able and unique marine and coastal ecosystems and to assist the countries of Belize, Guate-
mala, Honduras and Mexico to strengthen and coordinate their national efforts for marine eco-
system conservation and sustainable use. The current draft Project Assistance Document
(PAD) includes support for the following: (i) promote the conservation and sustainable use of
the MBRS; (ii) expand environmental education and awareness; (iii) develop a regionally
compatible ecosystem/biodiversity monitoring program and information system; and (iv)
strengthen regional coordination. The MBRS project is envisioned as a 15-year program con-
sisting of three project phases. The current project is proposed as the program's first five-year
phase.
2.    The general MBRS project area stretches from Isla de Contoy Mexico south along the coasts
of Belize and Guatemala, including the barrier reef and offshore islands, to the Gulf of Hondu-
ras, and then east along the North Coast of Honduras, including the Bay Islands, to the mouth
of the Aguan River (see Map 1). The MBRS includes adjacent marine ecosystems and coastal
watersheds in Belize, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico. The inland boundaries of the study
area vary by country and specific locality, but are generally intended to encompass those land
and water resources within the coastal plains and adjacent coastal watersheds. However, as
numerous land and resource utilization and conservation activities are carried out in areas that
affect ecological functions of the MBRS upstream (including agricultural, industrial and resi-
dentialVurban uses, wetlands and protected areas), a broader interpretation is used to suffi-
ciently encompass all "significant" threats and related underlying causes that could influence
reef health. The ocean extension of the study area approximates the limits defined by World
Wildlife Fund (WWF) for the Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef EcoRegion (Jorge, 1999). These
limits vaty from approximately 40 km off the northern coast of the State of Quintana Roo in
Mexico, extending out some 240 km from the apex of the Gulf of Honduras, to approximately
50 km off the North Coast of Honduras at the mouth of the Aguan River and include the Bay
Islands.
3.    In compliance with Global Environmental Facility and World Bank policies, probable and
potential positive and negative impacts of the proposed project should be assessed in order to
ensure the viability of the project interventions. The project has been designated within the
environmental risk category "B", implying potentially moderate risks depending on the design
of project components, for which mitigation measures are readily available and applicable to
control negative environmental impacts. The present document responds to GEF and World
Bank requirements in its analysis of the environmental and social viability of the project de-
signl.
4.    As an integral part of preparation of the project design, a threat and root cause analysis
(TRCA) was carried out to systematically ascertain the nature, location, magnitude and inter-
I Prepared by Paul Dulin, Environmental Specialist, as consultant to the World Bank.



Annex 1 1
Page 2 of 34
mediate and root causes of current and potential problems affecting the ecological health of
the MBRS.2 The results of this study, including its assessment of transboundary threats, are
used as the principal basis for the EA of the project, along with the analysis of the viability of
project components included in the PAD as supported by relevant documentation.
II.    EXISTING STATUS AND THREATS TO THE MBRS
5.     The Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS), extending some 1,000 km from the Yujcatan
Peninsula to the Bay Islands of Honduras, includes the second longest barrier reef in the
world. The MBRS is unique in the Western Hemisphere for its size, its array of reef types and
the luxuriance of corals. The MBRS stabilizes and protects coastal landscapes, maintaini.
coastal water quality, sustains species of commercial importance, serves as breeding and
feeding grounds for marine mammals, reptiles, fish and invertebrates, and offers employment
alternatives and incomes to approximately one million people living in coastal zones adjacent
to the reefs. Associated with the coral reefs of the MBRS are extensive areas of relatively
pristine coastal wetlands, lagoons, seagrass beds and mangrove forests that sustain exception-
ally high biodiversity and provide critical habitat for threatened species. The outstanding eco-
logical and cultural significance of the MBRS has resulted in the establishment of numerous
national parks and equivalent reserves, with several of these being designated as World leri-
tage sites. In the last 20 years, tourism development oriented around the MBRS, especially
cruise ship and diving operations, have dramatically increased foreign exchange contributions
to the four nations gross national products. Other reports commissioned as part of the design
phase for the MBRS project should be reviewed for more specific information concerning ma-
rine and coastal ecology, fisheries and the existence and management of marine and coastal
protected areas.
6.    In 1997, the Presidents of Mexico, Belize, Guatemala and Honduras signed the Declara.tion of
Tulum, which recognizes the interrelated nature of the MBRS and the importance to conserve
and sustainably develop its biodiversity and natural resources, and proposes a regional strategy
for its management. In June of 1999, in response to the Declaration of Tulum, the Central
American Commission for Environment and Development (CCAD) approved the final draft of
the MBRS Action Plan. This plan proposes a series of initiatives to be carried out at regional
and national levels to facilitate and coordinate actions aimed at conservation and sustainiable
use of MBRS resources, including: improved legislation and regulatory control, land-use
planning in coastal areas, protected areas management, sustainable tourism, institutiona
strengthening, and investigation and monitoring.
A.    Ecological Status of the MIBRS
7.    The ecological status and the extent of threats to the MBRS is restricted by the lack of inrfor-
mation across a range of themes. The ecological composition and condition of the principal
estuaries, mangroves and lagoons-which are the first-line repositories and buffers of c n-
tamination entering the MBRS-are poorly understood. The same situation applies to the
ecological status of reefs and seagrass beds in proximity to principal drainage outlets to the
MBRS. The location of spawning aggregations and migratory and reproduction habits are
poorly known, as is the status of fish stocks in coastal and open-ocean waters of the MBRS,
whether territorial or international. Similarly, data on industrial, artisanal and sport fisheries
catches are disparate, discontinuous and of questionable validity, since in few cases do :hey
2 Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Meso-American Barrier Reef System. Working Paper 1: Threat and Root Cause
Analysis. FAO Investment Centre, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Rpt No. 00/008 CP-CAM, 10 Feb 2030.



Annex 1 1
Page 3 of 34
include fishing locations. Also, the number of fishing boats of all sizes can only be estimated,
since the permit/licensing process used in most countries is poorly controlled. Consequently,
the status and tendencies of fisheries productivity is poorly understood, and only quantified in
reduced harvests for selected species, especially lobster, conch, shrimp and selected finfish
(especially grouper).
8.     While general information is available on currents and winds in the MBRS, these are based on
scanty sampling and several discontinuous studies. As currents and winds are determinants in
the movement of sediments and organic and inorganic contaminants in the Caribbean, their
correlation with water quality data is a critical need in order to determine the location, magni-
tude and impacts of contaminants entering the MBRS. Some of the more glaring gaps are
those regarding water quality for principal drainages into rivers, bays, estuaries, lagoons and
coastal wetlands that make up the MBRS. It is difficult to assess the static levels of contami-
nation (baseline) to understand if the Western Caribbean is becoming more contaminated or
less with time, if contamination levels are seasonal, and how these relate to the ecological
health of varying elements of the MBRS (for example coral diseases and bleaching, fisheries
productivity and recruitment, algal infestations). Again, the capacity of coastal wetland fea-
tures, estuaries, lagoons and mangroves, as well as fringing, patch and barrier reefs, to absorb
sediments and contaminants needs to be correlated with the volume of inputs of these, as can
be associated with data on water quality.
9.     There have been isolated water quality monitoring activities in coastal areas in Mexico and
Belize, but these have restricted geographical range and are subject to interruptions depending
on the availability of "soft" money from projects. Another program is proposed for the Bay
Islands as part of the Environmental Management Program financed by the IDB. Also, while
the general location of industries, ports, industrial agricultural areas, petroleum exploitation
areas and terminals, aquaculture operations, solid waste disposal sites and sanitary sewage
discharge outfalls are known, little is understood about the volume and nature of their wastes
and contamination potential. Several land-use studies have been prepared for specific areas in
the MBRS, and at the national level in several of the countries in the region. These, however,
are outdated and are not continuously monitored to gauge changes-especially in regards to
land clearing on shorelines and in mangroves, and the dynamics of deforestation in coastal and
inland watersheds The lack of a land-capability classification and zoning for terrestrial and
coastal-marine areas of concern in the MBRS restricts an assessment of land-use conflicts in
sensitive areas, inasmuch as their degradation may have an important influence on the health
of the MBRS resources. There are few instances of monitoring the number by sites of tourists
using the MBRS. While gross numbers may exist based on head-counts at airports, these are
only useful at a macro-planning scale and have little use in determining carrying capacities
and points of over-saturation and stress on sensitive sites in the MBRS.
10.    The TRCA study shows that the ecological health of the MBRS is influenced by a broad range
of phenomena, both natural and anthropogenic, and marine and land-based. However, the
dearth of scientific information on even the most basic of biophysical parameters forces re-
source managers, policy makers and international development assistance organizations make
decisions concerning the targeting of investments without an understanding of the real or po-
tential environmental, social and economic impacts on the MBRS. Without a firm foundation
for planning and monitoring of development actions-especially those embracing integrated
coastal resources management, land-use planning and zoning, and sustained resource utiliza-
tion strategies based on known carrying capacities-many of the national- and regional-scale
investments intended to promote conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS are missing
their mark.



Annex 1 1
Page 4 of 34
11.    The lack of quantitative information also restricts the present environmental impact assess-
ment, especially in terms of the status and dynamics of ecosystem functions within the MBRS,
as well as pinpointing the origin of certain threats and their manifestations on MBRS re-
sources. However, the proposed project is designed to specifically address these gaps of in-
formation on a regional scale, thus contributing the pool of knowledge needed to address envi-
ronmental problems affecting the MBRS at both national and regional levels.
B.    Threats to the Ecological Health of the MBRS
12.    While severely limited by the lack of scientifically-valid information, the TRCA identified a
series of actions and phenomena that pose current or potential threats to the ecological health
of the MBRS. The term threat is understood to be the agent or vehicle that represents the risk
to the MBRS. Threats were determined based on: (i) known or existing problems, inasmuch as
these represent an activity or phenomenon that is negatively impacting the ecological health
and integrity of the MBRS, whether these are qualitatively or quantitatively substantiated
and/or documented; and (ii) probable or potential problems, as activities or phenomena that
pose negative impacts (risks) to the ecological health and integrity of the MBRS, as these are
perceived based on best-available scientific judgment and the "worst-case scenario" princ iple.
In the following sections, an overview is presented of the principal categories of threats to the
ecological health and overall integrity of the MBRS, as determined under the TRCA. The in-
termediate and root causes of these threats are analyzed in the TRCA report, which shoul,1 be
consulted for a more integral understanding of threats to the MBRS.
Inappropriate Coastal/Island Development and Unsustainable Tourism
13.    Land clearing and construction activities for urban, tourism and industrial developments in
coastal areas involve removal of natural vegetation, dredging, filling, channelization and
draining, and sand and coral rock mining in mangroves, dune communities, wetlands, shcre-
lines and adjacent areas. These actions can cause changes in local currents and flushing in
bays, onshore and offshore erosion and sedimentation of sea-grass beds, adjacent reefs and
navigation channels, and result in a loss of protection from storms and hurricanes. Coral reefs
grow at slower rates in areas of high sedimentation, and species changes occur in response to
such conditions, with more tolerant coral species found in more highly-sedimented areas, es-
pecially on near-shore patch reefs (Hall, 1994). Similar problems occur with the disturbance of
the Zooxanthellae symbiotic algae, if light restricts their photosynthesis or if impacted by her-
bicides (even in low concentrations), that may die or leave its host corals, resulting in bleach-
ing or death of the latter. Construction can also result in fracturing and stress of terrestrial, ri-
parian, coastal, estuarine and nearby reef ecosystems resulting in changes in composition of
species. As the residential and tourist populations grow, increased consumption of water lrom
surface and ground water sources (especially on islands) can induce salt intrusion and changes
in ecosystem function, and decrease the availability of local and regional water supply.
14.    Disposal or spills of untreated liquid organic and chemical wastes, whether domestic, induls-
trial, agricultural runoff (including fertilizers and pesticides) or oil or formation waters from
petroleum drilling locations, can cause nutrification and/or chemical contamination of estuar-
ies, bays, wetlands, reefs and sea-grass beds, potentially causing massive kills of, and suble-
thal impacts to, aquatic organisms in fresh, salt and brackish water environments, and furlher
affect related trophic chains. Pan American Health Organization reports that only about 10%
of the sewage generated in Central American and Caribbean countries is properly treated
(CEPNET, 1999). The City of Chetumal, for instance, discharges 200 cubic meters of un-
treated sewage into the Bahia de Chetumal each day (Bezaury, 1999). Volumes of raw or
poorly treated sewage of similar or greater magnitude are discharged from urban centers di-



Annex 1 1
Page 5 of 34
rectly into coastal waters of the MBRS coast from Belize City, Puerto Cortes, Tela, La Ceiba
and Trujillo. Excess nutrients can result in blue-green algal blooms that compete with symbi-
otic and coral-building alga, and smother coral reefs. Repeated fish kills in the vicinity of Be-
lize City are attributed to effluent from an industrial galvanizing plant (UNEP, 1992). The dis-
posal of solid wastes into coastal rivers, the sea, shorelines and estuaries, impacts fishes and
reef organisms and reduces the aesthetic value of the tourism resources. The combination of
nutrients and chemical contaminants is thought to exacerbate coral diseases and bleaching
and/or stress their recovery.
15.   Many tourist sites are over-saturated with visitors, beyond their carrying capacities, both from
biophysical and management perspectives. Punta Nizuc Reef in Quintana Roo, for example,
has an average of 1,500 snorklers per day arriving on 21 large tour boats and 650 two-seater
jet skis (J. Bezaury, 1999). Improper diving, fishing and recreational activities by tourists and
nearby residents has caused physical and biological damage to island environments, reefs and
beaches. Many of the coastal and marine protected areas are under-financed and exist more
"on paper" than in reality, as monitoring and enforcement actions are deficient. Immigration
induced by the growing tourism service sector and availability of employment opportunities
can lead to the proliferation of poorly planned residential neighborhoods without adequate ba-
sic human services. This can lead to sanitation and human disease problems, the exacerbation
of social problems, and pressure on adjacent natural resources as people of limited economic
means cut mangroves for fuel and building supplies and fish for subsistence and income.
16.   Ever-increasing cruise ship and live aboard tourism, which is predicted to add an additional 20
ships and 2,000,000 passengers to the Caribbean in the year 2000, can produce similar impacts
experienced in urban areas if not regulated. Belize has an average of 3,000 cruise ship and
live-aboard visitors per day (Belize Tourist Board, personal communication, 1999). Pulses of
high numbers of tourists can overtax public services, reduce local food stocks, and generate
vast amounts of solid and liquid wastes that must be accommodated by municipalities in the
MBRS, and present challenges for police. If these ships visit offshore island and coral reef
sites, waste management problems become more acute, and inexperienced and/or unsuper-
vised divers and snorklers may present problems of coral breakage and depredation and un-
controlled fishing.
Inappropriate Inland Resource and Land Use and Industrial Development
17.   Even where industrial and agricultural development may occur at a great distance from coastal
areas, induced sedimentation, especially from the expansion of agricultural activities in upland
watersheds, and contamination from agricultural runoff and the disposal of liquid and solid
wastes of industrial and urban origin, make there way down-river and empty into the MBRS.
The threats as manifested on the resources of the MBRS, including the impacts of sedimenta-
tion and organic and inorganic pollution, are similar to those of coastal development as indi-
cated above, with Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) representing the greatest pollutant loads entering the MBRS.
The most important rivers contributing these contaminants are: the Rio Hondo of Mexico;
New River and Belize River in Belize; the Rio Motagua of Guatemala and parts of Honduras;
and the Chamelec6n, Ulua, Lean and Aguan Rivers on the North Coast of Honduras. Ap-
proximately 2,500 gallons of liquid wastes are discharged from sugar refining and rum dis-
tilling operations on the New River in Belize, contributing large organic loads and spent lubri-
cants to the Corozal Bay and Bahia de Chetumal (UNEP, 1992). Of the 380 industries regis-
tered in the Sula Valley, the most industrialized area adjacent to the MBRS and drained pri-
marily by the Rio Chamelec6n, 150 are reported to have environmentally problematic efflu-
ents (ESA Consultores, 1998), with 50% of these industries have a BOD concentration of



Annex 11
Page 6 of 34
more than 1,000 mg/I and a Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) in excess of 2,000 mg/l. In late
October 1998, Hurricane Mitch scoured huge quantities of sediment from rivers and sent them
into suspension into the MBRS. Chemical compounds, including chlorinated hydrocarbons
(DDT, aldrin), asphalt and heavy metals, buried after years of deposition in river beds of the
Chamelecon and Ulua Rivers, were washed into lagoons, estuaries and out to sea, adding to
the cumulative chemicals loading of coastal waters of the MBRS.
18.   Additional impacts of deforestation related to land clearing for agricultural expansion in up-
land watersheds, are those of induced changes in hydrological functions as these may relate to
the coast. Reduced infiltration to ground water aquifers can reduce the hydrostatic levels near
coasts and induce salt intrusion on a subregional scale. Also, with less vegetative cover, sur-
face water temperatures are increased and will contribute to warming of seawater, potentially
affecting movement of currents and inducing metabolic changes in aquatic organisms in the
MBRS. Construction of transport infrastructure, beyond the impacts related to land clearing
and disturbance of the hydrological functions in watersheds, also improve access to fragile
coastal areas, as well as upper watersheds and induce immigration, resulting in increased an-
thropogenic activities and spontaneous development, including land clearing, with the af ore-
mentioned impacts of deforestation, increased erosion and sedimentation, agricultural ru;loff
and waste disposal.
Overfishing and Inappropriate Aquaculture Development
19.    Overfishing occurs when artisanal, sport and especially industrial fishers fish in disregard of
regulations pertaining to closed-seasons, closed and protected areas, fishing of spawning ag-
gregations, and with a lack of respect for size and limit/number limitations. These actions in-
terrupt reproductive processes, gradually reducing stocks available for subsequent fisheries,
with resulting reductions in fisheries revenue for local and national economies. Based on the
results of FAO's 1994 Survey of the Wider Caribbean, just over 35% of stocks in the region
were regarded as over-exploited; however 70% of the pelagic stocks and 60% of the demersal
stocks were considered over-exploited. The over-dimensioned fishing fleets, especially in
Honduras where the number of industrial ships was 360 in 1996, places great fishing pressure
on the primary commercial species, especially as these now use more advanced navigation and
fish-finding equipment and some pull as many as four trawling nets. Species under the greatest
pressure are lobster, conch, shrimp and certain species of fmfish (esp. grouper and large graz-
ers), for which overall harvests has been reduced by 60-75% based on catch-per-unit-effort, or
CPUE, since 1979 in Honduras and Belize (ESA Consultores, 1998; Rodriguez and Winde-
voxhel, 1998), with similar reductions noted in the rest of the MBRS. Utilization of illegal
equipment and fishing methods, including the use of SCUBA for lobster and conch fishing,
has led to excessive local depredation and reduction in stocks of key commercial species.
Sport fishers and divers glean "trophy" fish from reefs and lagoons, especially jewfish, grou-
pers, kingfish and snook. By-catch of fishing activities, especially with small-sieve nets and
drift-lines, of both marketable and non-marketable species is estimated in the Caribbean al 60-
70% of industrial catches, resulting in important reductions in overall fisheries biomass in the
MBRS. In 1986, unutilized by-catch from the shrimping industry of Honduras was estimated
at 67 million pounds (Foer and Olsen, 1992). The Wider Caribbean region has the highest per-
centage of discards than any other major fishing area world-wide, with shrimp fishing pro-
ducing the greater volume of discards (CEPNET, 1999). Shrimp trawlers also disrupt or de-
stroy important quantities of sea-grass beds and corals.
20.    The burgeoning shrimp farming industry is gaining impetus in Belize and Guatemala. PooT
siting and construction of ponds in areas exposed to storms and floods can introduce exotic
species and diseases into lagoons and other habitats in coastal ecosystems. Similarly, exotic



Annex 1 1
Page 7 of 34
tilapia species can be accidentally or intentionally introduced in local streams, lagoons and
wetland areas and compete and/or reduce indigenous fish populations. If shrimp larvae are
collected from local beaches, estuaries and lagoons, this could result in reductions in nurseries
of natural stocks, in turn impacting open water shrimp fisheries in the MBRS. Effluent dis-
charged from ponds into coastal waters can induce local nutrification and introduce exotic dis-
eases into local estuarine and reef ecosystems; or the antibiotics used to control diseases may
destroy beneficial bacteria in natural settings. Finally, depending on methods of bio-
prospecting and capture/harvest, certain species of interest could be over-harvested, poten-
tially reducing their populations beyond recovery thresholds, and/or cause interruption to eco-
system functions and trophic chains in localized locations.
Inappropriate Port Managenent, Shipping and Navigation Practices
21.    More than 90% of commerce in the region is transported by ocean-going ships, making ports
and navigation of high economic development value, but also a focal point for real and poten-
tial threats to the ecological health of the MBRS (Rodriguez and Windevoxhel, 1998). Oil
terminals at Puerto Santo Tomas de Castilla in Guatemala (export and import) and Puerto
Cortes and Tela Honduras (import) involve the transport of millions of gallons of petroleum
and derivatives through the MBRS region each month. Two oil tankers carrying a total of
55,000 barrels of fuel visit Belize each month (Foer and Olsen, 1992), while approximately
400,000 metric tons of crude oil are shipped out of Guatemala each month. Ports and jetties
construction and dredging associated with channel and harbor maintenance results in increased
suspension of sedimentation in sea-grass beds and nearby coral reefs stressing and potentially
smothering these, and interrupting photosynthetic processes of corals' symbiotic and other
alga. Redeposition of sediments may induce changes in coastal morphologic processes result-
ing in erosion of beaches, accretion of sediments in navigation channels, estuaries and coastal
lagoons, and may change flows in local currents and flushing of bays and estuaries. Changes
in coastal morphology may reduce defenses against storms and actually instigate more damage
from storm surge and flooding.
22.    Inadequate port management can lead to spills of organic, inorganic and toxic cargoes, in-
cluding fuel, lubricants and bilge waters, which can contaminate coastal waters, potentially
impacting nearby reefs, beaches, bays and estuaries and their resident living organisms. With
the operation of oil terminals (Puerto Santo Tomas de Castilla in Guatemala, Tela and Puerto
Cortes in Honduras), improper transfer of cargoes lead to contamination. Where these involve
offshore transfer docks (Tela), conduits lying on the sea floor may break or leak.
23.    Inappropriate waste management practices on ships and ports, including accidental or inten-
tional dumping of sewage, oily bilge waters, waste oil and solid wastes into open seas, harbors
and bays, can result in nutrification and/or chemical contamination of estuaries, bays, wet-
lands, reefs and sea-grass beds. Most ports have limited facilities to receive solid and liquid
wastes from ships, inducing many to dump their wastes directly into the sea. Puerto Santo
Tomis de Castilla in Guatemala, for instance, receives nearly 5,000 metric tons of solid wastes
annually from ships, even as it has inadequate waste landfill facilities (Fernandez, 1995).
Much of these wastes are dumped in the open air and some making their way back to the
coastal waters and beaches. Such spills can cause fish kills as well as cause sublethal impacts
to aquatic organisms residing in fresh, salt and brackish water, and their related trophic chains.
As solid and liquid wastes float ashore, they foul beaches, represent human health hazards and
reduce aesthetics important to the tourism industry. Finally, accidents such as collisions,
groundings and founder of ships can cause physical damage to reefs, and potentially lead to
complete loss overboard of cargoes and leakage of fuels and lubricants into the sea. Hazardous
cargoes, such as petroleum, chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, palm oil, radioactive materials



Annex 1 1
Page 8 of 34
and similar toxic substances could cause local and subregional catastrophic damage to mcst all
aspects of coastal ecosystems.
Natural Oceanographic and Climato-Meteorological Phenomena
24.   Oceanographic and climato-meteorological features are permanent phenomena in nature and
only represent threats inasmuch as improperly executed anthropogenic development activ ities
expose humans and their infrastructure to greater risk. Hence, the intermediate and root ca uses
do not apply here. Rather, if these phenomena are not considered in planning and implement-
ing development activities, the threats and causes described above can be more acute and
bring about much more negative consequences for the human and natural environments. As
described in Matrix 1, predominating currents and winds tend to influence the transport and
concentration of sediments and contaminants entering the MBRS. The damaging effects of
tropical storms, hurricanes and El Nino/La Niina events (especially floods and storm surges)
are exacerbated through improper development actions practiced in coastal areas and inland
locations. The MBRS receives more than 60 tropical storms per century, with various hurri-
canes hitting Honduras, Belize and Quintana Roo, including Mitch in 1998, Gilbert in 1988,
Greta in 1978, Fifi in 1974 and Hattie in 1961 among the most damaging (Heyman and K er-
fve, unpublished).
25.   Coral diseases and bleaching are believed aggravated in areas of high sedimentation and con-
tamination brought about by anthropogenic activities on shore. The bleaching event of 1997-
1998 was perhaps the most damaging to date for the MBRS, with corals from the southerr
coast of Quintana Roo through Belize and into the Bay Islands suffering extensive mortality
(Kramer and Kramer, 2000). The same study found that coral diseases were also widespread
in the MBRS, with the highest levels of infestation occurring in back reef areas and patch reefs
in Belize and off the leeward coasts of Cayos Cochinos and the Bay Islands of Honduras.
Also, the rising sea level brought about by global warming will have much greater impacts on
infrastructure built in areas reclaimed from shorelines, wetlands, mangroves and low islands.
Principal Transboundary Issues
26.   The TRCA study yielded an analysis of the principal transboundary issues affecting the eco-
logical health of the MBRS, due primarily to predominating currents and winds found in t.Ae
Western Caribbean (see Map 1). There are several major ocean current features affecting the
MBRS: (i) the gyre is strongest during the dry-season months of January to April; (ii) the
principal southeasterly-to-northwesterly Caribbean current generally moves waters off the
northeast coast of Honduras toward the Yucatan Straight east of the counter-clockwise rotat-
ing gyre that roughly encompasses the Gulf of Honduras, from the Bay Islands to Glover';
Reef in Belize; and (iii) seasonal close-shore currents move east to west off the North Coast of
Honduras and the Bay Islands and in to the Gulf of Honduras, until they meet currents flowing
south along the Belizean Coast and tend to mix in the Gulf. The Bahia de Amatique, located at
the westernmost extreme of the Gulf of Honduras, has a semi-closed clockwise circulation in-
fluenced by the meeting of the coastal currents from Honduras and Belize. The Bahia de
Chetumal drains into the border area of Belize and Mexico and near the bifurcation of the
Caribbean current, where it mixes with the current flowing south along the Belizean Coast.
Easterly trade winds predominate in the MBRS region, tending to push surface currents inmo
the Gulf of Honduras and into the coast of Belize. Coastal drainage from the inland and
coastal watersheds of the North Coast of Honduras generally appear to flow toward the Gulf
bringing any suspended sediments and contaminants (and for that matter floating solid
wastes). A similar phenomenon occurs with drainage from the interior and coasts, including
drainage from the Bahia de Chetumal in Mexico and the Corozal Bay in Belize, wherein con-



Annex 11
Page 9 of 34
taminants flow along-shore into the coral lagoon leeward of the barrier reefs and islands of
Belize, picking up drainage from the resort town of San Pedro, then on toward Belize City. Of
particular concern is the Bahia de Amatique wherein sediments and pollutants have a greater
residence time and can adversely affect aquatic organisms. Hence, the Gulf of Honduras and
Bahia de Chetumal are the regional foci for the collection of sediments and contaminants en-
tering the MBRS, as these are induced by the previously identified threats.
27.    Other transboundary problems include that of uncontrolled cross-border fishing by industrial
and artisanal fishers in restricted areas, during closed season, in spawning aggregations, and
with destructive fishing equipment and practices. The species most at risk are ocean and la-
goon shrimp, lobster, conch and selected finfishes (especially grouper), but depredation also
occurs with manatee and sea turtles. Also, the lack of control of dumping of liquid and solid
wastes by ships at sea and at port facilities has led to degradation of open waters, reefs,
beaches seagrass beds, estuaries and tidal wetlands. The impacts of these activities are espe-
cially noticeable on the leeward sides of the barrier islands of Belize and Bay Islands of Hon-
duras, as well as the Gulf of Honduras. Finally, uncontrolled coastal development and the lack
of contingency planning on the part of all governments in the MBRS region has increased the
'damage inflicted by tropical storms and hurricanes, with Hurricane Mitch being the most em-
phatic lesson. These storms destroy coastal infrastructure and buildings, spilling into the sea
vast quantities of solid and liquid wastes, including hazardous chemicals, and organic materi-
als and sediments, contaminating resources throughout the MBRS. The increased exposure
and vulnerability of the coasts due to inappropriate land clearing, dredging and filling has re-
sulted in important losses in the natural coastal defenses that offered better protection against
such storms. Also, the rapid deforestation of inland watersheds has led to increased erosion,
flash flooding and sedimentation.
C.    Legal and Regulatory Frameworks
28.    Each of the countries comprising the MBRS have fairly comprehensive legal frameworks for
protecting the environment and coastal resources, although their application is disparate de-
pending on the productive subsector involved and country. Each of the countries has legisla-
tion requiring environmental impact assessments of development projects in coastal areas,
whether these are urban, residential, industrial, ports or tourism projects. In isolated cases, es-
pecially for Mexico in Cozumel, Chetumal and the Cancun-Tulum Corridor, land-use planning
and zoning has been carried out in coastal areas as means to guide environmentally sound de-
velopment. Compliance with these plans, however, has been irregular with developers varying
from stipulations generating local pressure on coastal resources and presenting new localities
of environmental damage and contamination. Land-use planning is almost non-existent in
Guatemala and Honduras, although programs have been proposed for coastal Guatemala and
the Bay Islands, the latter being financed under the Bay Islands Environmental Management
Program by IDB.
29.    Also, each of the countries is signatory to many of the international and regional conventions
and treaties which were ratified to encourage and facilitate the countries' adherence to inter-
national standards of environmental protection of marine and coastal resources. The lack of
action of the countries comprising the MBRS on many, if not most, of these conventions and
treaties complicates regional efforts to conserve and promote sustainable use of the MBRS.
Both the international conventions and national legal/regulatory frameworks provide a basis
for qualifying many of the root and intermediate causes. That is, the lack of compliance with
existing international and regional protocols, and national and municipal regulations, norms
and standards is, in itself, an intermediate cause of many of the impacts manifested in the
MBRS by the specific anthropogenic actions associated with the threats. Comprehensive list



Annex 11
Page 10 of 34
of national laws and regulations, as well as international and regional conventions and treaties,
are provided in the TRCA report.
D.    Regional and National-Level Projects and Programs
30.   Of direct importance to the current MBRS project design are several regional and nationa I ini-
tiatives dealing with the MBRS and coastal and reef resources (comprehensive lists of projects
and programs are provided in the TRCA report). The coastal resources management compo-
nent of the Regional Environmental Project for Central America, PROARCA-COSTAS, is co-
financed by USAID with matching funds provided by international NGOs The Nature Ccn-
servancy (TNC), Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the University of Rhode Is-
land/Coastal Resources Center (URI/CRC). The project supports capacity building and
empowerment of local communities in the development of strategies for the sustainable use of
coastal resources focusing on pilot areas in Belize, Guatemala and Honduras. A new regional
initiative, Conservation of the Mesoamerican Caribbean Reef Ecoregion, is being coordinated
by WWF and focuses on the biological assessment of the MBRS region and determining Jri-
ority interventions for treating root causes to resource degradation from a bio-diversity con-
servation perspective. Both of these projects complement the Mesoamerican Biological C'orri-
dor Initiative spearheaded by CCAD. There are numerous ongoing international and regional
programs providing technical assistance in coastal resources assessment, monitoring and ca-
pacity building. These include the Caribbean Coastal Marine Productivity Program
(CARICOMP) and the UNEP-coordinated Caribbean Environment Program (CEP). Also, the
Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network, operating through its Caribbean Sub-node is sup
ported by various international and regional organizations with local coral reef monitoring car-
ried out with GO and NGO staffs in all four MBRS countries. The Intergovernmental Oceano-
graphic Commission/Subcommission for the Caribbean is coordinating support to countries in
the Wider Caribbean Region to ratify and adopt actions under the protocols of the Cartagena
Convention and supports scientific research, training and monitoring of oceanographic, fish-
eries and biological diversity parameters. There are also various projects under preparationi
with financing from the GEF, World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, UNDP, (.rTZ,
USAID, DANIDA and other bi- and multilaterals directed to objectives of conservation of
coastal and marine resources. There is currently a GEF Block B grant to develop the Gulf of
Honduras Maritime Pollution Control Project with IDB support.
31.   At the national level, several projects stand out due to their direct relevance to the MBRS (see
Annex 3 for the lists of projects and programs in each of the participating countries). There are
various small projects related to protected areas (PAs) management of both marine and coastal
and near-coastal protected areas, supported by local and international NGOs and private enti-
ties, national and state governments, and bilateral and multilateral funding, including GEF,
World Bank, IDB and USAID. Particular projects of interest are: the Southern Quintana Roo
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project (Amigos de Sian Ka'an, University of Quiniana
Roo, USAID); Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Barrier Reef Complex of Belize
(Coastal Zone Management Authority and Institute, UNDP/GEF); the Trinational Alliance for
Conservation of the Gulf of Honduras (currently developing new project initiatives) supported
by PROARCA/COSTAS; and the Bay Islands Environmental Program (Honduran Tourisrn
Institute, IDB) and Sustainable Coastal Tourism Planning and Management Project (Honduran
Tourism Institute, FUNDEMUN, GEF/World Bank, currently in design), both in Honduras.



Annex 11
Page 11 of 34
E.    Public Participation in the Design of the Project and Assessment of Potential Impacts of
Project Implementation
32.   During the design phase of the project, stakeholders were consulted across employing a vari-
ety of approaches. Three regional project-planning workshops brought together members of
the National Barrier Reef Committees of each country. These committees are comprised of
representatives of government agencies responsible for themes related to the MBRS (including
natural resources management, environmental protection, protected areas management and
fisheries), NGOs active in coastal and marine areas, and representatives or private industry
(especially tourism). These same workshops included invitees from community-based organi-
zations, including Garifuna fishing villages from Honduras, Guatemala and Belize. Work-
shops permitted interchange of ideas and interests concerning the values placed on MBRS re-
sources and current economic and cultural uses. Wide participation of stakeholders in work
groups and plenary sessions enriched the design process and helped focus regional priorities.
33.   The TRCA study, which is used as the principal basis for this EA, involved numerous consul-
tations with members of the National Barrier Reef Committees within their own countries in
order to assess national priorities and comprehend the outreach and activities of projects and
programs being implemented within each country. Similarly, contact made with representa-
tives of regional and international projects provided a basis for avoiding duplication and pro-
motion of synergistic approaches for regional cooperation with existing projects. The results
of the study were used in the preparation of the final project design and current EA. It should
be mentioned here that all stakeholders consulted opined that the MBRS project would have
important positive environmental and social impacts for the MBRS region.
Iii.    Mbrs Project Description
34.   The project design proposes four principal components to treat many of the aforementioned
threats to the ecological health of the MBRS. A brief description of each component is pre-
sented below.
A.    Marine Protected Areas Management Component
35.   This component will be limited to a total of 15 marine protected areas (MPAs)3, nine of which
already have some legal protection, and six others which are in different stages of the process
of legal creation. Criteria for selection of the MPAs included in the project were based on the
significance of the protected area with respect to contributing to MBRS ecosystem character-
istics, diversity and processes. The majority of the MPAs (9) are located in the two priority
transboundary areas of the MBRS identified during the TRCA study--the Chetumal Bay area
(Mexico/Belize), and the Gulf of Honduras (Belize/Guatemala/Honduras). The remaining
MPAs included were selected to ensure a spatially dispersed pattern of MPAs loosely con-
necting the two transboundary areas. By the end of the project, the MBRS will have estab-
lished a minimally-acceptable number and geographic coverage of well managed MPAs in the
MBRS region, which will serve as regional models from which expansion and replication
could occur in the program's possible future phases. The component consists of two sub-
components: (i) planning, management, and monitoring of marine protected areas; and (ii) in-
stitutional strengthening.
3 MPAs include coastal and marine extensions.



Annex 1 1
Page 12 of 34
Sub-component A: Planning, Management, and Monitoring of Marine Protected Areas (MPA,'
36.   The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen conservation measures in existing irter-
nationally-significant MPAs and to support the creation, planning, and initial development of
a limited number of new MPAs in the MBRS region. Emphasis will be placed on supporting
investments that should result in immediate improvements in MPA protection and manage-
ment while increasing the probability of achieving long-term sustainability of management ef-
forts. Specific activities to be supported through this sub-component of the project are incti-
cated below.
Establishment of ecological and socioeconomic MPA data baselines and monitoring
37.   In anticipation of the preparation of MPA management and operational plans, rapid evalua-
tions of basic ecological and socioeconomic factors and conditions, including legal and policy
analyses and land tenure issues, will be carried out for each MPA included in the project's first
phase. In addition to providing the necessary information to prepare the aforementioned man-
agement and operational plans, selected indicators reflecting baseline conditions will be
monitored over time using simple methods that can be applied by MPA staff. An international
consultant, working with the staff of the respective MPA management agency together with
local scientists, will assist in carrying out rapid assessments and in the establishment of base-
line conditions for each MPA. A regional expert meeting will be held to review the initial re-
sults of these assessments and to devise a monitoring methodology appropriate for park slaff
to periodically assess the "health" of MPA ecosystems and gauge the effectiveness of project-
supported management efforts. This activity will help determine to what extent MPAs are
meeting their expressed goal of contributing to the maintenance and recovery of the health, di-
versity, and productivity of the marine and coastal ecosystems of the MBRS area.
Development of management plans andfinancial strategies for MPAs
38.   For four MPAs (Corozal Bay, Gladden Spit, Sarstoon-Temash, and Omoa-Baracoa), new
long-term (10-year) management plans will be prepared. In each management plan, financial
strategies will be formulated specifying existing and potential revenue generation alternatives
and include the identification of local and international funding sources. In addition, two-vear
operational plans, providing greater detail and specific budgets, will be prepared for each
MPA and updated annually. Under this activity, funds will be provided for local and interna-
tional consultants, participatory workshops, preparation, publication and dissemination of
management and operational plans, as well as for posters including MPA maps and plan eK-
ecutive summaries. For the eleven remaining existing and proposed MPAs, long-term marn-
agement plans either exist or are currently in preparation. Short-term technical assistance wvill
be provided to evaluate the success to date of plan implementation, review and harmonize
planning methodologies, and periodically evaluate the efficacy of plan implementation. ANhere
needed, two-year operational plans will also be prepared and updated annually.
Provision of basic equipment and infrastructure
39.   This activity supports the purchase of the basic equipment and infrastructure in each MPA
needed to facilitate the planning process, enhance administrative capacity, and allow MPA
staff to rapidly implement the priority measures outlined in the aforementioned operational
plans. While specific investments will be finalized according to priority needs identified ir
each operational plan, likely equipment and infrastructure for the two regional MPA com-
plexes (the XcalaklBacalar Chico, and Sarstoon-Temash/Sarstuin) situated in the Mexico-
Belize and Belize-Guatemala transboundary areas, respectively and Utila Island (Honduras)



Annex 11
Page 13 of 34
will include: boats, motors, and motorcycles; dive equipment; mooring and marker buoys;
ranger stations; and public use facilities (visitor centers, signage, trails, and composting toi-
lets). For the remaining 10 MPAs, a basic package of computer hardware, software and pe-
ripherals as well as communications equipment (base and mobile radios, batteries and charg-
ers), GPS units, and basic office furniture will be provided.
Transboundary cooperation in policy, protection, and management of MPAs
40.   Most of the MPAs selected to receive support under the project are located on or in proximity
to international borders. Many of the threats and root causes faced by these MPAs cannot be
resolved through unilateral national efforts. Current issues in need of effective bi- and tri-
national management responses include management of migratory fish and wildlife stocks,
addressing cross-border infractions of existing laws, and the conservation and management of
trans-frontier parks. Under this activity, funds will be reserved to facilitate regular meetings of
the field and supervisory staff of MPA management agencies in the Bay of Chetumal and Gulf
of Honduras transboundary areas, respectively. It is expected that these meetings and the re-
sulting dialogue and decisions will provide the eventual basis for formalizing the process
leading to the joint co-management of relevant MPAs in these and other transboundary areas.
Sub-component B: Institutional Strengthening
41.   To address the substantial institutional building needs in the region, training courses and
workshops for protected area directors, technical staff, rangers, and key collaborators from lo-
cal and national government agencies, collaborating NGOs, and local communities, will be
supported under this sub-component. Courses will be from two to three weeks in duration, and
will be held preferably at or in proximity to MPAs selected to receive management and plan-
ning assistance through the project. Training libraries providing basic information on all as-
pects of marine protected area management will be established or improved in all MPAs with
sufficient staff infrastructure in the MBRS area. Specific activities to be supported through
this sub-component of the project include the following activities.
Training courses and workshops
42.    Training events to be supported through the project include the following:
* Management planning for MPAs (two events @ three weeks each, for MPA managerial staff and
senior government, university, and NGO staff)
*  Basic training for MPA rangers (two events @ three weeks each)
*  Principles of MPA management (two events @  three weeks each, for midlevel and para-
professional staff of MPA management agencies and collaborators)
*  Development of MPA financial strategies (two events @ two weeks each, for supervisory staff at
MPAs and responsible government agencies and NGOs)
*  Administration of MPAs (two events @ two weeks each, for mid-level and senior staff of MPAs
and management agencies)
*  Community relations (two events @ two weeks each, for mid-level and supervisory MPA staff
and community leaders, collaborating NGOs and municipal representatives)
*  MPA public use and tourism programs (two events @ three weeks each, for MPA public use pro-
gram personnel, tourism institute staff, and local entrepreneurs and community association repre-
sentatives)



Annex 1 1
Page 14 of 34
Training library development
43.   In addition to supporting regional training events, the project will also provide a basic st,n-
dardized training library to all MPA headquarters and ranger stations throughout the MB RS
region (approximately fifty offices). This would facilitate continual professional improvement
for MPA field staff who often lack even minimal access to training manuals, natural history
publications, best-practices/management guides and other books on themes relevant to NM-PA
management programs.
B.    Regional Environmental Information System Component
44.   Developing and providing access to relevant environmental data from the region is a critical
element toward promoting the regional perspective and consensus required for management of
the MBRS as an integrated ecological system. The establishment of a regional environmental
information system (EIS) will provide an essential tool required for organized data manage-
ment and decision support. Moreover, a regional EIS can be used interactively with other
project components serving both as a recipient of and source for data with the MPA, Sustain-
able Use, and Public Education and Awareness project components.
45.   In the programt s initial phase, the objective of the EIS component will be to provide the basic
framework to guide data collection, processing, distribution and utilization in support of pro-
moting improved management of the MBRS. Specifically, the component will provide support
for the design and implementation of a bi-lingual EIS whose architecture will allow broac ac-
cess to policy makers, technicians, and the public at large. While the establishment of an EIS
will be a major product of the initial phase of the MBRS program, it nevertheless should be
viewed as a "living" system that will grow in complexity and value as new data are developed
and are made accessible. The component consists of the following two sub-components: (i)
creation and implementation of an MBRS regional environmental information system; and ii)
establishment of an integrated synoptic MBRS monitoring program.
Sub-component A: Creation and Implementation of a Distributed, Web-based EIS
46.   Under this sub-component, a web-based EIS will be established which will include basic envi-
ronmental data for reefs and adjacent waters in the MBRS region, outflows for selected wa.ter-
sheds, and accessible local and regional monitoring data, including data that form part of
broader-scale programs such as CARICOMP and CPACC. Specific activities to be suppolted
through this sub-component of the project are described below.
Equipment support
47.   Through this activity, the project will support the purchase of equipment, software, and the
costs associated with gaining access to the Web required to implement a distributed, web-
based, bilingual EIS. The EIS will consist of two tiers: a primary technical tier accessible to all
participating data nodes, and a secondary, publicly accessible tier providing information on
the MBRS--the latter in support of the project's public education and other components. Tlle
provision of equipment and training will be conditional on a commitment by each national
node agency to participate fully in the EIS by providing staff resources to maintain data ar.d
links to the EIS, and by making data available through the system according to previously
agreed procedures.



Annex 11
Page 15 of 34
Meta-database establishment
48.    This activity will support the construction of a comprehensive meta-database, a regional bibli-
ography, and a core of legacy databases which will be maintained by a component-supported
regional office which will also be responsible for maintaining the web-based EIS structure and
the publicly accessible information tier. At minimum, baseline geo-referenced maps, and first-
cut distributions of major watersheds, coastal water masses, and broad habitat types in shallow
waters will be included in the EIS. Much of these data will have to be generated by appropri-
ate node agencies at the national level and/or the regional office. The meta-database will also
be designed with hyperlinks to other relevant national, regional and international scientific re-
search, training and technical project websites to facilitate further more specific searches and
research by theme and geographic location.
Information dissemination
49.    The dissemination of information (electronically and in print) on the results stemming from
monitoring and other activities being undertaken to gauge and manage the environmental
"health" of the MBRS will be supported through the distribution of hard and digital copies of
tabular and georeferenced data, research and monitoring reports, training opportunities and
relevant archival information. The project will maintain a E-mailing list of interested and rele-
vant organizations and institutions, as well as offer periodic bibliographies and reports in
hardcopy to be made available at national node agencies and the regional project office in Be-
lize.
Training
50.    The activity will support a coordinated series of intensive, in-country training workshops de-
signed to build node agency skills in GIS and data management. Participant skills will also be
strengthened in: (i) the design of monitoring programs that will support improved decision-
making; (ii) the interpretation of remotely sensed data; and (iii) the statistical analysis of
monitoring data including "reference condition" and other advanced techniques. All partici-
pating agencies will have a role in the development of the training program to target their re-
spective institutional needs.
Technical support
51.   In support of the creation and implementation of the EIS, a small regional office composed of
2 technical specialists (an environmental monitoring specialist and an information technolo-
gist) and a set of national node agencies (at least one per country) will be established through
this activity. The regional office will coordinate the development and operation of the EIS,
maintain baseline and legacy data, and manage the publicly accessible information database.
Sub-component B: Establishment of an Integrated Synoptic MBRS Monitoring Program
52.    The MBRS can be viewed as consisting of a number local reef structures surrounded by water
and embedded in a mosaic of inter-linked ecosystems. The ecological linkages between reefs,
other marine environments, and coastal watersheds, are mediated, partially or entirely, by wa-
ter flow. However, despite the importance of water currents in transporting nutrients, pollut-
ants, and reproductive products across ecosystem and national boundaries, there is a dearth of
data on the region's current regime and its influence on the status and processes of MBRS
reefs and other critical ecosystems. Nor is there sufficient information related to the complex
patterns of reproduction, larval dispersal, and recruitment of corals, fish, and other important



Annex 11
Page 16 of 34
reef components; patterns which depend on the complex interaction of water flow and larval
behavior.
53.    Under this sub-component, a regional monitoring program for the collection of synoptic data
on physical oceanography (surface currents) and ecological connections among and between
reefs and adjacent ecosystems (including coastal watersheds) will be implemented. In the ini-
tial phase of the program, the geographic emphasis of the monitoring activities will be in The
two transboundary areas of the MBRS. Criteria for the identification of specific monitoring
locations will include: presence of biodiversity-rich ecosystems; importance of the areas as
sources or sinks for recruitment of corals, fish, or other important community components;
and presence and degree of threat associated with pollution stemming from onshore activi-ties.
In addition to the sites in the two transboundary areas, an additional 5 or 6 sites will be sup-
ported at strategic locations selected for their value in contributing to a more complete undler-
standing of the ecological processes that characterize the MBRS. Monitoring activities will be
planned and designed in association with the MBRS MPA monitoring activity described
above, to ensure technical coherence and operational efficiency between the two activities.
Specific activities to be supported under this sub-component are described below.
Baseline assessment and monitoring program
54.    This activity will support the preparation of an MBRS environmental baseline. In order to ini-
tiate the preparation of the baseline at the project inception, an integrated summary of present
knowledge will be assimilated concerning the ecology of the MBRS based on currently avail-
able information on current regime, patterns of pollution risk, interconnection of locations and
habitats within the region, and ecosystem state and dynamics. The results of the assessment
will be presented at an initial planning workshop of the sub-component's Technical Working
Group (TWG) in PY 1. Based on the results of the study, it will be the task of the TWG to de-
velop a detailed proposal for a regional monitoring study of surface current patterns, water
quality, and reef community dynamics to include coral and fish recruitment.
55.    The monitoring study will be supported by ancillary field studies designed to characterize -he
biotic communities and laboratory analyses. Annual coral reef assessments, using the field
survey carried out in association with the current MBRS project design as a baseline4, will be
instituted beginning in PY1 and continue through the life of project. This site-specific moni-
toring will provide latitudinal data concerning the ecological health of the reefs, especially in
reference to coral diseases, bleaching, recovery rates and mortality. A key input into the
monitoring program will be flow and water quality monitoring at Rio Hondo and New Rih er,
and at Motagua, Chamelec6n, and Ulua rivers and an assessment of their importance as outlets
for sediments and agro-chemicals and other bioactive compounds that may affect the "health"
of the reefs, as correlated with annual reef assessments. An additional input will be the com-
pletion of a risk analysis using satellite imagery of river flood plumes, and/or analysis of off-
shore sediments derived from terrigenous materials, to identify those reef communities thar: are
most at risk to river-borne pollutants. A key output will be the development of a hydrody-
namic model of surface currents near the end of the first phase of the project. In addition tc
equipment and logistical support, this activity will support the contracting of highly-technical
specialists to assist in the identification of sources of recruited larvae, the collection and con-
duct of sensitive chemical analyses of water quality, and developing a hydrodynamic surface
flow model for the region.
4 Kramer and Kramer. Ecological Status of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System: Impacts of Hurricane Mitch and 1998
Coral Bleaching. Final Report to the World Bank. University of Miami/RSMAS. January 2000.



Annex 1 1
Page 17 of 34
Targeted research
56.   Water quality issues are likely to be monitored more effectively if a simple but reliable set of
bio-monitors could be identified for water quality. While a number of simple bio-monitors
have been tried in coral reef systems in the past, none have yet gained widespread acceptance
and use. This activity would support the development of one or more simple, inexpensive bio-
monitoring indicators for water quality that could be applied routinely to monitor coral reef
habitat in the region. By using identified variations in water quality at monitored sites, it will
be possible to use field experiments to evaluate the precision and reliability of different bio-
monitoring techniques. Once a technique has been developed and verified in the field, it would
be integrated into the MPA monitoring activity.
C.    Promotion of Sustainable Uses of the MBRS Component
57.   The objective of the component is to provide relevant information and assistance to decision-
makers and managers of productive sectors dependent on the MBRS so that adverse impacts
of their activities are minimized and productivity is enhanced. The component seeks to facili-
tate necessary incentives to stakeholders contributing to the sustainability of resources and the
economic activities that depend on them. The component is designed to identify those techni-
cal, social and institutional interventions that will enhance the conditions and opportunities for
rational use of the resources of the MBRS. Component activities will initially focus on the two
most significantly important and potentially harmful economic sectors dependent on the
MBRS, fishing and tourism, under the following sub-components.
Sub-conmponent A: Promwte Sustainable Fisheries Management.
58.   There are strong indications that several commercial species of fmfish, crustacea and mollusks
are either fully or over-exploited throughout the MBRS region. These species represent an im-
portant source of income for thousands of families throughout the MBRS region and popula-
tion levels need to be maintained to reduce the risk of possible economic and social loss.
59.   Many of these same species play key functional roles in the reef ecosystem and their popula-
tions must be maintained at reproductively viable threshold levels. Despite the importance of
the resource, sustainable management objectives for most of these species have rarely been
achieved in the region; a situation attributed largely to a lack of awareness (among policy
makers, resource managers and fishers), poor education, conflicts among user groups in the
coastal zone, and minimum research capacity in the MBRS region. This sub-component will
address this issue by supporting the following activities.
Determination of spawning aggregation sites
60.   This activity will present clear scientific bases and recommendations to be considered in the
formulation of a regional policy promoting the sustainable use and management of these sites
which will be developed through the appropriate fora. This activity will facilitate the collec-
tion and analysis of scientific and anecdotal information documenting the location of these
sites, their ecological and socioeconomic importance, and the production of a regional map in-
dicating exact geographical location, dimension, and status of exploitation (by fishing and
other activities). In this assessment, priority shall be given to the following commercially im-
portant species: Nassau grouper, the mutton snapper, the yellowtail snapper and the hogfish.
This activity will be conducted in PYI, and will require the services of two specialists with
expertise in the ecology of spawning aggregations and in the development of marine fisheries



Annex 1 
Page 18 of 34
policy, respectively, with emphasis given to the establishment of conservation areas (MPAs)
to protect selected species during annual spawning events.
Monitoring
61.   This is a follow-up activity to the mapping of fish aggregation sites with the objective of
monitoring the status of aggregation sites in the MBRS region over a three-year period (PY2 -
PY4). Visual surveys using underwater video will be used to estimate changes in aggregation
size, sex ratios, species composition and social behavior. Exact geographical location and the
physical extent of the aggregation will be monitored using GPS. Support in the form of
equipment needed for the monitoring of basic fisheries activities (cameras, GPS units, net,
calipers, balances, snorkling gear, microscopes, etc.) will be provided to national project part-
ners in PY2.
Sustainable fisheries management
62.    Assistance in building regional research capacity will be provided in the form of training,
technical assistance and equipment. The design and establishment of a regional fisheries dita
collection and management system will be completed in PY2. This activity will review ex st-
ing fisheries data collection systems in the region, determine the feasibility of modifying tllem
to suit MBRS needs, and produce a suitable regional fisheries data collection and management
system for the MBRS, using customized software and development of a users' manual. This
system must be compatible with the MBRS EIS to be established under the project. A 3-d& y
regional workshop will be held in PY2 to obtain country endorsement of the data collectio l
system as well as training in its use. Copies of the software, users' manual, computers and
printers will be provided to the four countries in an effort to initiate immediate use of the new
data collection system. In addition to training in traditional data collection system approaclhes
and on a pilot basis, this activity will support an 8-day training workshop, during PY2, to fa-
cilitate application in all four countries of ECOPATH and ECOSIM data modeling programs.
These programs employ an ecosystems approach, as opposed to traditional species-specific
methods.
63.   An assessment of the socioeconomic interrelationships between fishing and other user groups
within the coastal zone of the MBRS will be conducted in PY2. This assessment will identify
positive relationships as well as conflicts between fishers and other user groups, and will rec-
ommend guidelines for enhancing positive and mutually-beneficial relationships as well as
conflict resolution measures.
64.    Regional and follow-up national training for fishers, government officials and members of
NGOs in co-management techniques will be conducted in PY2 and PY3. This activity will in-
troduce the topic of co-management and will lay the groundwork for the involvement of
stakeholders in the management of coastal resources. Professional peer exchange and hands-
on training in specific skills will be provided to technicians working in fisheries management
within the MBRS. These training will be conducted in PY2, PY3, PY4, PY5 and will makce
available trained technicians to the region at a faster rate than long-term degree programs.
Promotion of sustainable livelihoods
65.    During PY2 and PY3, this activity will support vocational training of fishers located in the
two priority transboundary areas in alternative economic activities. Training should impart to
fishers the capacity needed to diversify from fishing into more sustainable income-generating



Annex 1 1
Page 19 of 34
activities including, but not limited to, kayaking, sport-fishing, tour-guiding, dive mastering,
naturalist and similar vocations.
Sub-component B: Facilitation of Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism
66.    Tourism is the world's fastest growing industry. Tourist arrivals to the Central America sub-
region represented the highest average annual percentage growth increase within the Americas
region over the past three years. A large part of this growth is in nature-based tourism, relying
on the amenities or attractions of the Caribbean Basin's unique marine environment. The
MBRS still boasts some of the least spoiled coastal profiles and some of the most outstanding
underwater experiences in the Caribbean. However, in the absence of adequate environmental
management guidelines or regulatory regimes, proliferation of traditional sea and sun tourism
in parts of the region (Cancun, in particular) has occurred often at a significant ecological and
socioeconomic cost. There is a critical need to stimulate an on-going policy dialogue and fa-
cilitate specific actions necessary to ensure sustainable tourism principles and practices are
implemented through regional cooperation.
67.    The objective of this sub-component is to formulate and facilitate application of policy guide-
lines and best practice models for sustainable coastal and marine tourism in the four countries
of the MBRS. The desired outcome is to provide and disseminate examples which demon-
strate how to minimize the adverse impacts of tourism and enhance its potential beneficial ef-
fects on coastal/marine habitats and resources and on human communities located near tour-
ism destinations. Actions proposed are integrally-linked to the objectives and activities pro-
posed under the other three components of the MBRS project. The following activities are
planned over the initial five-year phase of the project.
Regional policy dialogue and cooperative action forum
68.   To facilitate a tourism policy that provides helpful direction for local MPA protection, senior
government officials and their tourism industry counterparts need to be better informed about
critical coastal and marine tourism issues and problems. Initially, this activity will focus on
obtaining tourism industry commitment and NGO support for the government to implement
workable environmental impact assessment, inspection and enforcement systems for coastal
land and marine uses. Planning guidance will also be provided to develop innovative tour/trip
circuits which "package" and market marine parks together nationally and regionally (e.g.,
Wildlife Conservation Society's Regional Trails Project or marine ecotourism associated with
an MPA in a priority transboundary area such as the Xcalak/Bacalar Chico or Sarstoon-
Temash/Sarstuin). This activity will also provide support for an annual forum to facilitate: (i)
developing consensus on a regional strategy and priority actions; (ii) selection of at least one
specific priority regional cooperation issue and action agenda to address each year; (iii) draft-
ing, adoption and dissemination of achievable action plans; (iv) implementation and follow-up
through technical assistance, training and/or collaborative activities; and (v) monitoring and
evaluation of outcomes.
Catalogue of exemplary practices
69.    Voluntary codes of conduct in critical segments of the coastal and marine tourism industry
need to be considered and adopted by tourism-related businesses. International and regional
organizations have invested considerable resources in developing sustainable tourism guide-
lines and codes of conduct (for example USAID-supported sustainable tourism efforts in
Quintana Roo and the UNEP's Caribbean Environment Program). This activity will support
an extensive literature search and interviews with sustainable tourism experts, from which



Annex 1 1
Page 20 of 34
"good practices" will be identified and adapted for use in the MBRS region. A catalogue of
"exemplary practices" for sustainable coastal tourism will be developed and disseminated
widely in the region through print and the project's website.
Regional environmental certification program
70.    Under this activity, a region-wide, independent environmental certification program will be
established for coastal and marine tourism operations in key sub-sectors (e.g., hotel/resort fa-
cilities, diving operations, yachting and live-aboards, ecolodges, cruise ship tours on land).
This program will include: (i) agreement on a strategy and steps for certification, including
performance based standards for environmental certification/ecolabeling; (ii) formulation: and
adoption of an independent certification and marketing system that positions the MBRS I egion
as one of the world's leading sustainable tourism destinations; (iii) provision of resources for
establishment of the program on a pilot basis in high priority transboundary tourism desti na-
tions linked to one or more MPAs; and (iv) development and adoption of a plan for expanding
and financing the certification system (for instance, fee for service, cooperative marketing to
the green market). Efforts will be made to create cost-effective linkages and cooperative ac-
tivities with other on-going certification (for example, programs sponsored by the Caribbean
Action for Sustainable Tourism).
Marine tourism exemplary practices study tour
71.    This tour will be designed to provide an opportunity for a number of "emerging" marine-
focused travel and ecotourism operators (those who are not fully market-ready, or are jusi
starting to market their product) to learn, exchange information, and network with successful
businesses in their field. A two week marine tourism exemplary practices study tour will be
designed to network and share ideas with 5 or 6 established and leading adventure travel, ima-
rine travel and ecotourism operators in Central America. Throughout the tour, experts will
conduct seminars on a number of topics, including product development, marketing strategies,
environmental conservation and management, partnering with the travel trade, packaging, and
market research. Materials will be prepared on environmental practices, community involve-
ment, conservation financing and interpretation. A technical report will also be drafted ancL
widely disseminated to the tourism industry, interested NGOs and government officials
through print and the project website in order to share lessons learned, case examples and pit-
falls to avoid.
D.    Environmental Education and Public Awareness Component
72.    A major cause underlying threats to the MBRS as identified in the threat and root cause analy-
sis in support of MBRS project preparation was the lack of public education and awarenes.
concerning the environmental, social and economic significance of the MBRS, and issues that
need to be addressed to ensure its sustainability. A critical element to developing the political
will and policies required to manage the MBRS is building sufficient public support to cata-
lyze change. The objective of the environmental education and public awareness component is
to increase environmental awareness among a variety of stakeholders and promote the devel-
opment of human capacity to change practices that are detrimental to the MBRS.
Sub-component A: Development of an Environmental Awareness Campaign
73.    Under this sub-component, the general public's awareness of the importance of the MBRS as a
"world class" resource and the need to promote its conservation and sustainable use will be
enhanced. This will be carried out by supporting development of a broad-based public aware-



Annex I I
Page 21 of 34
ness campaign using printed and audio-visual messages that will be disseminated through
general media and at public gatherings. Activities under the sub-component include the fol-
lowing.
Establishment of a database and information "clearinghouse"
74.   MBRS project staff and consultants will gather published and unpublished materials and me-
dia resources located within and beyond the region with relevance o MBRS objectives. These
will be entered into a database and made available through the MBRS project website. A
catalog of MBRS reference materials will be promoted via all printed and audio-visual materi-
als produced by the project. Also, relevant materials in support of the environmental education
sub-component will be reproduced and distributed to target users/audiences.
Public awareness campaign strategy
75.   A public awareness campaign strategy will be developed through a series of meetings and in-
terviews with key stakeholders in the four MBRS countries. It will be implemented on a na-
tional basis and will focus on the value and need for conservation of the shared resources of
the MBRS.
Development and dissemination of information materials
76.   In support of the campaign, printed and audio-visual materials will be produced and dissemi-
nated by project staff and associated stakeholders. Materials will be produced in English,
Spanish and, in some cases, Garifuna and will include: brochures, posters, and comic books
(five of each); videos (three, each of which can be excerpted for television spots); and radio
spots (four). A graphic designer will create a logo to be identified with MBRS conservation
and sustainable use, and other materials to be used to generate public awareness. Two one-day
seminars for National Barrier Reef Committees and mass media representatives will be held in
each of the four countries to promote the project and disseminate printed and audio-visual
materials
Sub-component B: Fornal and Infornal Education
77.   The objective of this sub-component is to increase knowledge and promote changes in atti-
tudes and behavior towards the conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS, with particular
focus in the transboundary areas, through the strengthening of formal and informal environ-
mental education programs. Students at primary and secondary school levels will be educated
about the significance of MBRS and the need to promote sustainable management practices.
Assistance will be provided through creation and/or adaptation of curriculum materials for
students, as well as teachers' guides and teacher training to ensure successful use. The sub-
component will contribute to non-formal education of professionals in industry and tourism
sectors that directly affect MBRS resources, and/or for community leaders who maintain
strong influence on MBRS stakeholders. This will he carried out through a series of work-
shops in which participants will be exposed to examples of "best practices" in the sector and
learn how to improve their respective patterns of resource utilization. An awards program will
provide public recognition for those community-based, industrial, governmental and non-
governmental entities that demonstrate their commitment to improving the quality of MBRS
resources. Specific activities supported under the sub-component are described below.



Annex 11
Page 22 of 34
Production and dissemination of education materials
78.   This activity will support the production of primary school level curriculum materials for stu-
dents and associated teaching guides, and support for two regional 6-day training workshops
for teachers. Secondary school level curriculum materials for students and associated tea. hing
guides will also be produced, and their use supported through the implementation of two re-
gional 6-day training workshops for teachers. An annual coastal resources fair and conte.t will
be established for secondary school level students to exhibit and award projects that mosi suc-
cessfully support MBRS conservation and sustainable use.
Regional workshops
79.    Six 4-day regional workshops will be conducted to educate and train the following target
groups: (i) leading industrialists about best practices for conservation and sustainable use of
the MBRS; (ii) tourism professionals about best practices for conservation and sustainabie use
of the MBRS; and (iii) influential community leaders (e.g., religious, local government, social
organizations) about conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS.
Regional conferences
80.   Two 2-day regional conferences will be held for members of the business and tourism sectors
and community leaders to present the activities/projects they have implemented and to and
give awards for those subprojects and activities which most successfully support MBRS e on-
servation and sustainable use objectives. These activities will be coordinated especially NA ith
those under the MPA and Sustainable Uses project components.
IV.   ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACTS OF THE PROJECT, AND PROPOSED MEASURES
TO ENHANCE POSITIVE AND AVOID OR MITIGATE POTENTIALLY
NEGATIVE IMPACTS
81.   As can be perceived from the objectives and description of activities under each of the fotir
components, the MBRS project is designed to treat many of the fundamental threats to the
ecological health of the MBRS, as well as contribute to the sustainable utilization of resources
found therein. The environmental and social impact of the project will be overwhelmingly
positive, directly and indirectly. The project will make important contributions to the bod y of
knowledge concerning the status of the MBRS and its resources, and the real and potential
negative impacts of anthropogenic activities as these are manifested on the MBRS. The pi-oj-
ect seeks synergistic linkages with ongoing local, national, regional and international projects
and programs that deal with conservation and sustainable use of MBRS resources. By design,
the project should complement both ongoing and future projects and programs, especially in
areas where these programs lack a regional perspective in terms of conservation and sustain-
able use of the shared resources of the MBRS.
82.   The proposed project will provide assistance and support to both governmental and non-
governmental entities, as well as contribute to sustainable use initiatives with resource users at
the local/community level. The MBRS project places emphasis on the two priority trans-
boundary areas that have been identified as those most at risk of unsustainable depredatioii of
resources. These areas have traditionally been ignored by national governments and/or ex-
cluded from project outreach as they are in many cases regarded as "lawless" and outside Af
regulatory outreach. Because of natural conditions created by prevailing ocean currents ard
winds, these same transboundary areas are the principal receptors of sediments and contami-



Annex 1 1
Page 23 of 34
nants that emanate from land- and marine-based sources, and are most at risk of ecological
degradation.
83.    There is a risk of minor negative environmental and social impacts related to project imple-
mentation. Financing of infrastructure construction and improvements could present tempo-
rary and localized impacts in the form of sedimentation or contamination if proper safeguards
are not employed to avoid or mitigate these. Also, related to the establishment or development
of MPAs and fisheries conservation efforts is the potential for disrupting traditionally-
practiced economic activities (fishing), although these have been found to be, in turn, degrad-
ing the resources leading to self-elimination of these activities in certain areas. In both cases,
the project includes mitigation strategies and measures to avoid or dissipate any such potential
impacts.
84.   An analysis of the probable and potential positive and negative environmental and social im-
pacts is presented below for each of the project components. As necessary and appropriate,
measures to enhance the positive impacts of the project and avoid or mitigate potentially
negative impacts are indicated.
A.    Marine Protected Areas Management Component
85.    Activities under this component will have immediate and positive impacts on efforts to con-
serve marine and coastal ecological complexes. Investments are targeted at consolidating
management of 9 existing MPAs, and facilitating the establishment of 6 new MPAs currently
in differing processes of legal designation. The creation and/or consolidation of 15 MPAs
should advance objectives of the establishment of a Mesoamerican marine and coastal corridor
to complement the terrestrial Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. The project will complement
ongoing and planned national-level biological conservation projects and several regional ef-
forts (for instance PROARCA/COSTAS financed by USAID), contributing to the effective
management of legally-protected areas that, up to the present, have been regarded as "paper
parks". MPAs to be funded under the MBRS project have been selected based on regional
conservation criteria and funding will be facilitated for the preparation of management plans
and effective on-site management.
86.    Proposed training, facilitation of equipment and transboundary cooperation activities proposed
under the component should significantly improve the on-site management of MPAs. As
MPAs are consolidated and become better managed, their social and economic significance
will increase with greater visitation of residents and tourists. Efforts under the MPA compo-
nent will be coordinated with activities proposed under the Promotion of Sustainable Uses
component. Synergies among these components will facilitate mutual objectives of enhanced
biological conservation and sustainable utilization of marine and coastal resources, especially
coral reefs (diving, kayaking and other ecotourism activities ) and fisheries (as populations of
species currently overexploited recover). Furthermore, an increase in the area under effective
conservation management and increased tourism activity associated with MPAs should bring
about added value of economic opportunities to local communities.
87.    There exists the potential for some minor negative impacts associated with construction of
ranger stations and public use facilities in the two transboundary areas of Xcalak/Bacalar
Chico and Sarstoon-Temash/Sarstun, and Utila Island in the Gulf of Honduras. Land clearing,
limited excavation and soil movement associated with establishment of these facilities may re-
sult in increased erosion and sedimentation. Depending on the siting of structures, they could
interfere with natural coastal processes and defenses from tropical storms. Also, operation of
these facilities could lead to contamination of the surrounding environment with liquid and



Annex 11
Page 24 of 34
solid wastes if these are not properly contained and disposed of. In order to avoid or mitigate
potentially negative consequences of these activities, a simple environmental impact assess-
ment will be carried out for each structure proposed. This assessment will comply with all EA
regulations found in each respective country and World Bank policies and guidelines. Tc,
complement this effort a set of guidelines will be developed to incorporate the environmcntal
dimension into the siting and construction of protected areas management infrastructure and
avoid contamination of fragile ecosystems in and adjacent to the MPAs. An MBRS regiolal
project staff member will develop these instruments, train local MPA staff in their application
and monitor compliance.
88.   In some cases, local communities have traditionally used waters and reefs of the MPAs (both
existing and several slated for legal declaration) for their fishing activities. Some of these fish-
ers have constructed and used temporary shelters as fishing camps on several of the islands
and coastal locations found within the MPAs. Depending on the frequency of fishing and spe-
cies fished, these fishers could be impacted should their access to fisheries resources be lim-
ited or restricted altogether. The location and importance of these locations has not yet been
determined, nor which communities or individuals depend on them. It should also be men-
tioned, however, that many of then traditional fishing locations within the MBRS have been
abandoned due to diminishing stocks, especially for grouper, sardines, conch and lobster. In
essence, the fishers have degraded their own resource and impacted their own livelihoods by
not respecting basic fishing regulations (fishing out of season, overfishing species beyond set
catch limits, harvesting undersized individuals ).
89.   In order to respond to the potential for adversely impacting local fisher communities, as part
of the proposed rapid ecological assessments for each of the MPAs to be supported by the
project, local fisher communities will be consulted in order to determine the significance if
local fisheries within the MPAs. Depending on the results of these assessments, strategies and
policies for mitigation or compensation of any perceived impacts would be adopted. The proj-
ect, with activities proposed under the Promotion of Sustainable Uses Component, alread-y en-
visions vocational training to transform fishers into tour and sport-fishing guides and divt-
masters. These fishers, already possessing good knowledge of the waters and reefs within
many of the MPAs could also become park rangers within the MPAs and/or para-investigators
in support of research and monitoring activities proposed under the EIS and Sustainable Uses
components.
B.    Regional Environmental Information System Component
90.    The TRCA found that the lack of basic scientific information on the status and dynamics if
the MBRS is the single most pervasive limitation to environmentally-sound management of
MBRS resources. This situation is compounded by the multiplicity of procedures and formats
for what little data are collected in each of the countries and by several regional and intenia-
tional entities. This component will respond directly to these deficiencies in its establishment
of a bilingual EIS with outreach in each and among the four countries that make up the
MBRS.
91.   The creation of a web-based EIS with a complementary meta-database will enable scientists,
students, resource managers and decision-makers ready access to information pertinent to the
conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS. Better-informed decisions should lead to bet-
ter management of MBRS resources. Establishment of the EIS will also necessitate consolida-
tion of parameters, procedures, protocols and formats for the collection of information rele-
vant to the monitoring of the ecological health of the MBRS and the impacts of natural phe-
nomena and anthropogenic activities. As part of the EIS, a regional integrated synoptic envi-



Annex 11
Page 25 of 34
ronmental monitoring program will contribute both baseline and longitudinal information on
the dynamics of the MBRS, including such aspects as water quality, surface currents, recruit-
ment areas, impacts of principal river discharges, coral reef health and tendencies, and bio-
monitors. Over time, the EIS and environmental monitoring program should facilitate a better
understanding of MBRS ecological processes, the importance of certain geographical areas
(such as MPAs and spawning aggregation sites), and sources of contamination and causes of
degradation of MBRS resources.
92.    Establishment of the regional EIS, with both central and national nodes, will have very posi-
tive environmental impact within each country and the region as a whole, as development
planning and conservation efforts will be facilitated with an improved knowledge base con-
ceming the potential for impacts, both positive and negative. Capacity building in each of the
countries, to be brought about through the provision of equipment, training and sustained
technical assistance, should contribute to the sustainability of environmental monitoring ef-
forts as these relate to MBRS resources. The EIS will support all other components by serving
as receptor and disseminator of information concerning basic ecology, fisheries, tourism re-
sources and the need for proper management of MBRS resources. The monitoring program
will be supplemented by, and feed back information to, data management activities to be han-
dled under the MPA and Sustainable Uses components. Information from the EIS will also be
made available for inclusion in materials to be promoted under the Environmental Education
and Awareness component.
C.    Promotion of Sustainable Uses of the MBRS Component
93.    This component focuses on the most important economic activities utilizing resources in the
MBRS-fisheries and tourism-seeking to make both more sustainable. Activities under the
Sustainable Fisheries sub-component are oriented primarily to improving scientific knowledge
regarding the reproduction dynamics and viability of populations of selected economically-
important marine finfishes which are currently believed overexploited. The delimitation and
monitoring of spawning aggregation sites will lead to a better understanding of the status of
Nassau grouper, mutton snapper, yellowtail snapper and the hogfish. Modeling of this infor-
mation and other data available in each of the countries and at a regional level will permit
better assessment of ecosystem conditions and tendencies, which will, in turn, lead to the de-
velopment of strategies and policies of improved fisheries management in the MBRS. One
intermediate objective of the sub-component is to consider establishment of spawning aggre-
gation sites as MPAs as a strategy to protect at-risk species. This strategy would also serve to
counteract any conflicting efforts to use information concerning the location of spawning ag-
gregation sites for out-of-season depredation of these fish species.
94.    The sub-component also includes an assessment of the interrelationships of different groups of
users of MBRS resources (primarily tour operators and fishers) with the intent of developing
mutually-sustainable utilization strategies that balance resource use with objectives of conser-
vation. Also included are activities for the vocational retraining of fishers located in the two
priority transboundary areas in alternative economic activities more consistent with the objec-
tives of sustainable use of the MBRS. The conversion of fishers to tour and sport-fishing
guides, divemasters, park rangers and naturalists will have both positive social and environ-
mental impacts. Also, as fisheries stocking rates improve, strategies for sustainable fisheries of
selected species can be developed with possible redeployment of fishers from affected com-
munities.
95.    The Facilitation of Sustainable Coastal and Marine Tourism sub-component will provide
guidance to tour operators, government authorities and NGOs on environmentally-sound



Annex 11
Page 26 of 34
tourism practices, including "green" certification. The proposed regional forum among repre-
sentatives of the tourism and national regulatory agencies of the MBRS is designed to bring
regional tourism issues and policies into dialogue and facilitate adoption of uniform environ-
mental impact assessment procedures and tourism "best practices" for the industry. The same
forum will promote packaging of regional tours within the MBRS, itself a strategy to promote
sustainable use of this shared resource. Tourism best-practices guides will be prepared ba sed
on lessons learned in the region and widely distributed throughout the region. Among the best
practices to be embraced by the project are: policies of social inclusion, participation of local
communities (community-based tourism), consideration and respect of local social and cill-
tural features (esp. Garifuna), and utilization of locally-available services. This will be fol-
lowed up with a marine tourism exemplary practices tour and a regional environmental certifi-
cation program designed to encourage tour operators to adopt best practices and promote envi-
ronmental protection and conservation objectives of the project. Sustainable tourism under this
sub-component will be directly linked with activities under the MPA component in an attempt
to bring added economic value to the objectives of protected areas management.
D.    Environmental Education and Awareness Component
96.   Activities proposed under this component will enhance the understanding of the environ-
mental, social and economic value of the MBRS, its fragility and needs to conserve its shared
resources. The component is intended to complement all three other components in raising the
awareness with a clearinghouse function, through the packaging and dissemination of infor-
mation in printed and audio-visual media within each of the countries. The component will
target relevant stakeholders and convene media events to present information on the MBRS
and extol the need for its conservation.
97.   The formal and informal education activities are targeted primarily within the two priority
transboundary areas. While formal education media will be made available throughout th,
MBRS region, it will be complemented with training of primary and secondary teachers i n
schools within the transboundary areas in order to enhance the positive impact of environ -
mental education efforts. Similarly, informal education events will target representatives of
industries determined to present the greatest risk to the integrity of the MBRS, as well as tour
operators (the latter in direct coordination with the Sustainable Tourism sub-component) aind
groups of community leaders. Non-formal education will focus on the dissemination of envi-
ronmentally-sound best practices. Annual "green" awards programs are designed to engerder
a sense of competitiveness among educators (through coastal resources fairs) and industrialists
(clean industry).
V.    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN: INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK.
COSTS AND TIMETABLE
98.   As indicated above, the MBRS project will produce overwhelmingly positive environmental
and social impacts in the region. The MBRS project, as designed, constitutes in itself an envi-
ronmental management plan (EMP). The most important effort at environmental and social
impact mitigation and management will be to implement the project as designed with the
greatest level of efficiency and coordination with national partners. For this reason, the re-
gional office Natural Resources Management Specialist will monitor annual work plans a -d
evaluations, and effect field visits, to ensure compliance with project's intermediate objectives
of effective environmental and social management. The only additional activities that need to
be included in the project to avoid potentially negative environmental impacts are those re-
lated to the construction of protected areas management infrastructure in five MPAs, four of



Annex 1 1
Page 27 of 34
which are in transboundary areas. The following activities are proposed to avoid or mitigate
potential impacts.
A.    Simplified Environmental Impact Assessment
99.   As described under the section dealing with the MPA component, a simple environmental im-
pact assessment procedure, such as an annotated checklist (Ficha Ambiental), should be used
for siting and design of each structure. This checklist should be applied in the field by person-
nel of each respective MPA, or the organization charged with management of the MPA. The
checklist is based on a best practice model and modified to reflect local conditions and risks,
by the Natural Resources Management Specialist assigned to the project's regional office in
Belize. MPA personnel will be trained in the use of the checklist in a two-day workshop to be
organized by the Specialist, who will then also monitor compliance with the procedure. The
procedure should be compliant with any and all applicable regulations and norms in each of
the respective countries as may be stipulated in local or national laws and codes. As appropri-
ate, the procedure and checklist should be adapted to local environmental and socioeconomic
conditions.
B.    Environmental Management Guidelines for Construction and Operation of MPA Infra-
structure
100.  In addition to the environmental impact assessment procedure, it will be necessary to follow a
number of environmental management guidelines designed to avoid or at least ameliorate any
possible on-site impacts associated with construction and operation of MPA infrastructure.
Once the sites and general environmental conditions in each of the MPAs proposed for infra-
structure construction are better understood, the regional Natural Resources Management Spe-
cialist will apply a series of environmental management guidelines for the construction and
operation of all MPA infrastructure. Where and when appropriate, these guidelines should be
supplemented with any and all applicable regulations, norms and conditions as may be stipu-
lated in local or national laws and codes. As appropriate, these guidelines should be adapted to
local environmental and socioeconomic conditions. The following items, among others, were
considered for inclusion in the guidelines to be prepared by the Specialist:
Construction Phase
*  Construction should take place during the dry season to reduce potential for rain and storm-related
erosion/sedimentation and contamination;
*  The designs for infrastructure should mimic local architecture and employ local building materials
when available and appropriate; structures should blend in with the local natural and/or cultural
settings;
*  Avoid siting structures near or within high tide or annual storm surge levels;
*  Avoid clearing and/or draining of mangroves or wetland areas;
*  Avoid excavation/dredging or quarrying of coral rocks and sand, especially along coastal head-
lands, reefs and seagrass areas;



Annex 11
Page 28 of 34
*  If cultural or archaeological evidence is discovered during construction, cease activities and pro-
ceed with a rapid investigation, valuation and, if necessary relocation of infrastructure and/or res-
cue of cultural resources;
*  Construction techniques should include silt barriers and berms to control accelerated erosion and
sedimentation of nearby wetland, riparian or coastal areas;
*  A solid waste management plan should be in place at the time of initiation of construction, with
necessary receptacles for storage, and transport (for removal from area) and/or incineration fiacili-
ties maintained in good working order;
*  Any oil, grease or fuel should be stored in containers and protected from storms (rain and tides);
the contractor should have in place a contingency plan for oil and fuel spills, including equipment
to contain and dispose of spilled substances;
*  All areas cleared should be returned to their original (or better) condition, with any re-vegetation
employing native species.
Operational Phase
*  A solid waste management plan should be developed and in place, with necessary storage recepta-
cles and transport and/or incineration or sanitary landfill facilities maintained in good working or-
der;
*  Unless connection with an established septic treatment system  is available, MPAs should be
equipped with composting toilets (Clivus multrium) to avoid contamination of surrounding soil
and nearby wetland, riparian or coastal areas;
*  The MPA should have contingency plans for all types of accidents, spills and evacuation, for
tropical storms;
*  All fuel, lubricants and potentially-hazardous substances should be stored in storm-proof contain-
ers and storage facilities.
101.   These general guidelines will be complemented with particular impact mitigation and/or e-ivi-
ronmental mitigation and management specifications that may be stipulated on the basis o the
environmental impact assessment procedure described above as it is applied on a case by c ase
basis. These mitigation measures and environmental management guidelines will be incorpo-
rated in applicable construction contracts with compliance monitored by MPA personnel
trained by the Specialist. In complement, guidelines for environmental management required
during the operation of MPA infrastructure will be implemented by MPA personnel with
technical assistance, as required, provided by the Specialist.
C.    Costs and Timetable
102.   Costs for the training activity have already been included in the budget for the MPA compa-
nent; hence the implementation of actions indicated above require no additional financing un-
der the project. The training will be combined with other planned MPA training events. The
timetable for preparation of the environmental impact assessment procedure and checklist, and
environmental management guidelines will coincide with the execution schedule for design



Annex 11
Page 29 of 34
and construction of MPA infrastructure. It is expected that these instruments will be prepared
in PYl.
VI.   RISKS
103.  The project design recognizes the interconnectedness of ecological processes within the
MBRS, and the transboundary nature of the environmental impacts of improper designed or
executed anthropogenic activities. These transboundary impacts can only be dealt with inte-
grally with coordinated national and regional responses. Obviously, a regional project or pro-
gram can only be as strong as the sum of its parts. This is especially true in relation to the
number of existing and proposed projects within each of the four countries that make up the
MBRS. With so many national and regional initiatives, it is not surprising that the level of co-
ordination among these projects has been very limited. In some cases, project managers do not
know of the existence of other projects; while in other cases, financial aid institutions and/or
project management agencies do not want to complicate their own efforts with collaborations
with other projects. Coordination among bilateral and multilateral organizations, whether at
the country or regional level, has been poor, resulting in various instances of duplication of
activities, several with the same counterpart institutions. While many of these national and re-
gional projects support activities that coincide thematically with the proposed MBRS project,
they do not have uniform geographical coverage throughout the MBRS region. They also dif-
fer strategically and methodologically, in some areas, from those of the MBRS initiative, es-
pecially in terms of their treatment, or no, of threats to the MBRS and their causes and in pro-
cedures and protocols for environmental monitoring and information formats. These tradi-
tional deficiencies also represent a risk to the present regional project effort.
104.  The MBRS project should facilitate coordination on technical, methodological and operational
levels among regional and national projects and programs related to conservation and sustain-
able use objectives of the project achieving technical synergies as well as financial and im-
plementation efficiencies of scale. While the regional project should add value to activities
implemented under the array of national and local initiatives, these same national and local
projects must also make accommodations for achieving greater impact on a regional scale, es-
pecially for those resources shared within the MBRS. Thus, it will be incumbent on managers
of the regional MBRS project to forge collaborations in order to create operational synergies
and make best use of the limited resources available for financing activities to be proposed
under project components. Areas of opportunity for collaboration in activities can be found for
each MBRS component, including aspects of: policy and regulatory strengthening, training,
environmental education and public outreach campaigns and media development, planning re-
sponses for contingencies, and in areas of inventory, monitoring and the development of the
proposed environmental information system.
105.  Another important risk is presented by the extremely limited technical and managerial capac-
ity of the four countries' national government institutions in MBRS countries responsible for
managing MBRS resources. Personnel are either too few, ill prepared professionally and/or
are constantly changed limiting agencies ability to successfully execute complex integrated
marine and coastal resources management projects; or they lack absorptive capacity for still
more resources, even where these are needed. These same countries are also weak in their
promotion of policies that favor implementation of projects promoting conservation and sus-
tainable use of marine and coastal resources, especially where special economic interests tend
to exert greater influence to maintain the status quo of overexploitation.



Annex 1 1
Page 30 of 34
106.   The MBRS project seeks to democratize its outreach and work with private industry, NG4Os
and, potentially, selected community-based organizations, in addition to governmental agen-
cies in the four countries. This diversification of partners should alleviate the impacts of policy
and personnel changes in a particular country, as well as ensure continuity of activities and
flow of project resources.



Annex 11
Page 31 of 34
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Belize Tourism Board. 1999. Personal communication about the cruise ship industry in Belize. Belize
City.
CEPNET. 1999. Newsletter of the UNEP Caribbean Environment Programme. Vol. 14, No.1, First
Quarter. www.cep.unep.or . Kingston, Jamaica.
Declaraci6n de Tulum. 1997. Firmado por los Gobiernos de Mexico, Belize, Guatemala y Hondu-
ras. Tulum, Quintana Roo, Mexico.
ESA Consultores. 1998 (unpublished). Informe Final: Sintesis del Perfil Ambiental de Honduras.
SERNA/PRODESAMH. Tegucigalpa.
FAO Investment Centre. 2000. Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Meso-American Barrier Reef
System. Working Paper 1: Threat and Root Cause Analysis, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Pro-
gramme, Rpt No. 00/008 CP-CAM, 10 Feb 2000. Rome.
Fernandez, M. I. 1995. Inforrne Final: Inventario de Puertos e Instalaciones de Recepci6n de De-
sechos Generados por Buques. Iniciativa del Gran Caribe sobre Desechos Generados por Buques.
Guatemala.
Foer, G. and S. Olsen. 1992. 1992. Central America's Coasts: Profiles and Agenda for Action.
University of Rhode Island/Coastal Resources Center. USAID/ROCAP. Guatemala.
Hall, M. 1994. Agricultural pollution on the coral reef in the Stann Creek District, Belize: an as-
sessment of sources, effects and Government policy. (Masters Thesis). University of London,
Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine/Centre for Environmental Technology.
London.
Heyman, W.D. and B. Kjerfve. 1999 (unpublished).The Gulf of Honduras. Punta Gorda, Belize.
Jorge, M. 1999. Report of the Preliminary Meeting of Experts on the Mesoamerican Caribbean
Reef Ecoregion. Meeting held April 12-14, 1999 in Belize City. World Wide Fund for Nature.
Washington.
Kramer, P. and P. Kramer. 2000. Ecological Status of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System: Impacts
of Hurricane Mitch and 1998 Coral Bleaching. Final Report to the World Bank. University of Mi-
ami/RSMAS (January 2000).
Rodriguez, J. J. y N. J. Windevoxhel. 1998. Analisis regional de la situaci6n de la zona marina
costera centroamericana. Informe Tecnico No. ENV- 1 21. BID. Washington.
UNEP/CEP. 1999. Environmental Issues in the Caribbean: An Overview of Land Based Sources of
Marine Pollution (LBSMP). AMEP Programme for the Assessment and Management of Environ-
mental Pollution. www.cep.une0.org/issues/lbsy.
UNEP/CEP. 1994. Regional Overview of Land-based Sources of Pollution in the Wider Carib-
bean. CEP Technical Report # 33. Caribbean Environment Programme. Kingston.



Annex 11
Page 32 of 34
UNEP. 1992. Environmental Problems Affecting the Marine and Coastal Environment in the
Wider Caribbean Region (Draft). Tenth Meeting of the Monitoring Committee on the Action
Plan for the Caribbean Environment Programme and Special Meeting of the Bureau of Contraci-
ing Parties to the Convention for the Protection and Development of the Marine Environment (:f
the Wider Caribbean Region. 11-13 November 1992, Kingston.



Annex 1 1
Page 33 of 34
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects
in the IBRDIIDA Lending Program
Country:        Regional (Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, Honduras)   Project Id:             GE-PO 53349
Project:        Conservation And Sustainable Use of the
Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS)
Appraisal Date:  12/10/01-12-15/01                               IBRD (GEF)/Total Cost: US$1! .0 / US$24.2
Board Date:     Proposed: July 5, 2001                            IDA Amount (US$M): US${Cost}: 0
Managing Division: LCC2C                                          Sector:                Environment
Lending Instruments: No                                          Status:                 Negotiated
EA Category: "B"                 Date Assigned: May 22, 2001
DATE DATA SHEET UPDATED: April 25, 2001
MAJOR PROJECT COMPONENTS: Goals are to facilitate enhanced protection of vulnerable coastal and marine ecosystems and
assist governments of Mexico, Belize, Honduras and Guatemala, NGOs and private efforts to promote sustainable use of MBRS
resources. Project will have the following components:
1. Marine Protected Areas: Support for consolidation of 15 MPAs through rapid ecological assessments, drafting of management
plans, equipment, training and technical assistance. Support for establishment of three transboundary MPAs in the Bay of Chetumal
and Gulf of Honduras.
2. Regional Environmental Information System: Development of a web-based integrated environmental information system (EIS)
with a regional node and a minimum of four national nodes. Equipment, training and technical assistance to establish operational EIS
in each country, with outreach/access provided to government, NGOs, universities and private users of information. EIS will function
as a meta-database site. Development of an integrated synoptic environmental monitoring program, focusing water quality,
oceanographic parameters and selected biological indicators. Data will be integrated into EIS and made available to users.
3. Promotion of Sustainable Uses of the MBRS: Support for delimitation, mapping and monitoring/control of spawning aggregation
sites for selected at-risk species, introduction of regional protocols for collection and processing of data to be used in development of
management strategies and policies. Counterparts in national fisheries authorities will be trained in use of ecosystem modeling as a
fisheries management tool. Proposes an assessment of relationship between fishers and other groups of resource users (esp. tourism) to
ascertain strategies and programs for mutually-beneficial management of fisheries resources and vocational retraining of fishers in
other economic activities. Sustainable tourism sub-component will promote adoption of best practices in siting, design, construction
and operation of tourism infrastructure and ecotourism packaging and operations, including regional environmental certification
program. This will be supplemented with regional seminars to promote dialogue and adoption of uniform environmental assessment
and management standards, and regional exemplary practice tours. Model regional tour packages will be promoted.
4. Environmental Education and Public Awareness: Development of media for public awareness campaigns and formal and non-
formal education. A clearinghouse will collect, classify, repackage and distribute relevant information to further goals of the project.
Formal education activities consist of production of curriculum guides for dissemination throughout the region, with teacher training
concentrated in transboundary areas. Non-formal education targets selected industries presenting environmental risks to MBRS.
PROJECT LOCATION: The MBRS project area stretches about 1,000km from Isla de Contoy, Mexico south along the coasts of
Belize and Guatemala, including the barrier reef and offshore islands, to the Gulf of Honduras, and then east along the North Coast of
Honduras, including the Bay Islands, to the mouth of the Aguan River, and includes adjacent marine ecosystems and coastal
watersheds in these countries. The inland boundaries of the study area vary by country and specific locality, but are generally intended
to encompass those land and water resources within the coastal plains and adjacent coastal watersheds. The ocean extension of the
study area varies from approximately 40 km off the northern coast of Quintana Roo in Mexico, extending out some 240 km from the
apex of the Gulf of Honduras, to approximately 50 km off the North Coast of Honduras.
The MBRS includes the second longest barrier reef in the world, and is unique in the Western Hemisphere for its size, its array of
reef types and the luxuriance of corals. The MBR S stabilizes and protects coastal landscapes, maintains coastal water quality, sustains
species of commercial importance, serves as breeding and feeding grounds for marine mammals, reptiles, fish and invertebrates, and
offers employment alternatives and incomes to approximately one million people living in coastal zones adjacent to the reefs. Several
national parks and reserves have been designated as World Heritage sites.
MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: A Threat and Root Causes/Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis was carried out during the
design process. The following threats are considered the background under which the project will be implemented:
*   CoastaUlIsland Development and Unsustainable Tourism, which includes urban, hotel and resort development and related infra-
structure (pollution/contamination, nutrification, sedimentation, physical reef damage, impacts tc estuary and lagoons and mangrove
destruction, beach erosion, habitat change, etc.);
* Inappropriate Inland Resource and Land Use and Industrial Development, encompassing a broad range of agricultural, urban and
industrial development in inland watersheds with direct or indirect impacts on the MBRS (sedimentation, pollution/contamination,
eutrophication, habitat and species/abundance changes, mass kills of organisms, etc.);
* Overfishing andAquaculture, in relation to industrial, artisanal, subsistence and recreational fishing, and aquaculture in coastal
areas, which pose real and potential impacts of species and abundance change, local extinction of selected species, habitat
change/symbiosis imbalances. reduced subsistence and revenues from fisheries, etc.
*   Inappropriate Port, Shipping and Navigation Practices, including water, reef and beach contamination, reef damage, impacts to
aquatic species and fisheries (including mass kills), degradation of the tourism values, etc.
*   Natural Geomorphological and Climato-Meteorological Phenomena, with immediate relevance to recent coral bleaching events
associated with El Nifno, impacts of hurricanes (with emphasis on Hurricane Mitch) and predominant ocean currents; environmental



Annex 11
Page 3 4 of 34
and socioeconomic impacts from anthropogenic activities (see above) are exacerbated by these natural phenomena
The MBRS project is designed to address many ecological threats to the MBRS, as well as contribute to sustainable ise of its
resources. The environmental and social impact of the project will be overwhelmingly positive, directly and indirectly. It will
contribute to knowledge concerning the status of the MBRS and its resources, and the real and potential negative impacts of
anthropogenic activities. The project seeks synergistic linkages with ongoing local, national, regional and international projects and
programs that deal with conservation and sustainable use of MBRS resources. By design, the project should complement ongoing and
future projects and programs for the MBRS, especially where these programs lack a regional perspective.
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: The potential for negative environmental impacts under this project is practically nil. The
only real risk posed by the project as designed is related to the siting and construction of MPA infrastructure (ranger stations and public
use facilities in the two transboundary areas of Xcalak/Bacalar Chico and Sarstoon-Temash/Sarstuin , and Utila Island). Land clearing
and excavations could pose some risks of accelerated erosion and sedimentation in fragile coastal areas, and loss of mangrove or other
species at risk. Depending on the operation of the ranger stations and visitors' centers, environmental contamination c3uld occur as
tourism pressure is increased, bringing about generation of greater volume of liquid and solid wastes.
In some cases, local communities have traditionally used waters and reefs of the MPAs (both existing and proposed', for fishing
activities. Some fishers have constructed temporary shelters as fishing camps on several of the islands and coastal locations found
within the MPAs. Depending on the frequency of fishing and species fished, these fishers could be impacted should their access to
fisheries resources be limited or restricted altogether. The location and importance of traditionally used fishing sites in MI'As have not
yet been determined, nor which communities or individuals depend on them. It should also be mentioned, however, that r many tradi-
tional fishing locations within the MBRS have been abandoned due to diminishing stocks, especially for grouper, sardine:, conch and
lobster, because of fishing out of season, overfishing species beyond set catch limits, etc.
PROPOSED ACTIONS: To avoid or mitigate potentially negative consequences of MPA infrastructure construction unc,er the
project, a simple environmental impact assessment will be carried out and environmental impact mitigation measures will be
incorporated into MPA management plans at each site. The assessment and mitigation measures will comply with all envi -onmental
assessment regulations found in each respective country and World Bank policies and guidelines. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will ensure that management plans include environmental review and mitigation measures where infrastructure and other ,ivil works
are involved. It will also monitor compliance and help set up a monitoring program for local MPA staff.
To respond to the potential for adversely impacting local fisher communities, as part of the proposed rapid ecologica. assessments
for each of the MPAs to be supported by the project, local fisher communities will be consulted in order to determine the significance
of local fisheries within the MPAs. Depending on the results of these assessments, strategies and policies for mitigation or
compensation of any perceived impacts would be adopted. The project, with activities proposed under the Promotion of Sustainable
Uses Component, already envisions vocational training to transform fishers into tour and sport-fishing guides and dive-m;-sters. These
fishers, who have good knowledge of the waters and reefs within many of the MPAs, could also become park rangers and, or para-
investigators in support of research and monitoring activities proposed under the EIS and Sustainable Uses components.
JUSTIFICATIONIRATIONALE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY: Although the project is expected to have
overwhelmingly positive enviromnental impacts, the potential for some negative impacts exists, thus justifying the B category rating.
REPORTING SCHEDULE: Category B: is there a separate environmental analysis? An environmental analysis of the project has
been appended to the PAD. Separate environmental reviews will be performed for sub-activities, such as minor civil work.  associated
with MPA management plans that will be prepared under the project. These will be done on an as-needed basis.
REMARKS: During the design phase of the project, stakeholders were consulted through a variety of approaches. Three legional
project-planning workshops brought together members of the National Barrier Reef Committees of each country. These ckmmittees are
comprised of representatives of government agencies responsible for themes related to MBRS, NGOs active in coastal an! marine
areas, and representatives or private industry. The workshops also included invitees from community-based organizations, including
Garifuna fishing villages from Honduras, Guatemala and Belize. Workshops permitted interchange of ideas and interests concerning
The values placed on MBRS resources and current economic and cultural uses. Wide participation of stakeholders in work groups and
plenary sessions enriched the design process and helped focus regional priorities.
The TRCA study, which was used as the principal basis for the EA, involved numerous consultations with members of the
National Barrier Reef Committees to assess national priorities and comprehend the outreach and activities of projects and Jrograms
being implemented within each country. Similarly, representatives of regional and international projects provided informa-ion to avoid
duplication and promote synergistic approaches for regional cooperation with existing projects. The TRCA study was usedl in the final
project design and current EA. All stakeholders were of the opinion that the MBRS project would have important positive
environmental and social impacts for the MBRS region.
Signature                                                  Signature
and Date:                                                  and Date:
Name                                                       John Redwood
Director                                                   Director, LCSES
Initials                                                   Initials
and Date:                                                  and Date:            _             __
Task Manger's Initials                                     Walter Vergara, EA Review Coordinat;, r



Annex 12
Page 1 of 9
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 12
Social Assessment of the Meso-American Barrier Reef System (MBRS) Area of Influence
Executive Summary
I.    Introduction
1 .    As part of the project preparation for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Meso-
American Barrier Reef System (MBRS) Project (the Project), a social assessment (SA) with the fol-
lowing specific objectives was conducted: (i) Identify ecosystem users and their activities, especially
fisheries and tourism, and the impact these have on the reef. (ii) Identify key stakeholders, especially
the ethnic groups residing in these zones, to ensure that their recommendations are taken into account
in Project design. (iii) Identify possible negative impacts of the Project, if any, especially on the
MBRS, archeological sites, Marine Protected Areas (MPA) and coastal conservation areas. (iv) Pro-
pose mechanisms and strategies arising from local groups for their participation in the Project. (v)
Identify best opportunities for strengthening the technical and institutional ability of community or-
ganizations to contribute to the Project objective and achieve an improved gender and ethnic balance.
2.     This document summarizes the main results of this social assessment. The first part describes
the ethnic and indigenous groups, with a special section assessing the status of women. The second
part analyzes recent regional development, since it significantly influences risks, capabilities and the
local population's perceptions. Then the risks, perceptions and potential conflict areas are described.
The last section describes recommended actions.
3.     The SA results include an Indigenous People's Participation and development Plan, prepared
in order to support indigenous peoples' and ethnic groups' (Garifuna, mestizos, blacks, Creoles, Ma-
yas) participation in MBRS conservation and the Project and to target actions to them and, in particu-
lar, to lower income groups and women. The Plan includes a matrix that identifies, in the Project cost
tables, activities and costs related to participation and development of ethnic and indigenous groups.
II.    Methodology
4.     The SA was done for each of the four countries in the Project impact areas, after agreeing
upon the methodology to be used. It was agreed to limit the SA to the areas of the transboundary limits
of Chetumal Bay and the Gulf of Honduras and to focus on the fishing and tourism industries, since
these are the main geographic foci of the project and activities to be supported under sustainable use.
The results of these four reports (which are available as national reports) are consolidated in the main
report, summarized in this section. The SA consisted of: (i) a literature review; (ii) identification of
ethnic and indigenous groups in the Project impact areas and field visits; (iii) surveys and open-ended
interviews (205) with representatives from all key groups; and (iv) focus groups and discussions with
experts (8).
III.   Social Assessment Results
111.1  Ethnic and Indigenous Groups in the Project Area
5.     For purposes of this Project an attempt was made to identify the population that lives in the
impact area, defined as those who live along the coast, on the islands and within six miles inland of the
areas bordering on Chetumal Bay and the Gulf of Honduras.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 9
6.    In Belize, these people are primarily Creoles and Garifuna who live in Corozal, Stann Creek
District and Punta Gorda. This is a population of about 64,000 people. It is important to point out ihe
high growth rate reflected in national census figures for these districts, primarily due to immigration to
Belize from both its northern and southern borders. This growth is occurring in rural areas, except for
Toledo District. The majority of immigrants engage in subsistence agriculture, farming hillsides or
working as laborers on large plantations.
7.    In Mexico there are two ethnic groups: Mestizos and Mayans. The area of the project, the
South, is isolated with mainly a commercial activity that is declining and with a population of abouit a
1000, settled in two small villages Majahual and Xcalak. These two villages have a population of
about 600. Social indicators are not good for the area, illiteracy is 13%, 53% of the population is un-
employed, 28% works in agriculture and only 33% have running water in their homes.
8.    Beneficiaries of the project in Guatemala are about 9,000; however, data on the area is no1
reliable. The Quiche and the Queweche are about 3,000. They have great mobility and are settled in
the villages of Sarstuin, Sarstun Creek, San Juan Cocoli, Guaira and in Livingston in Plan Grande and
Plan Grande Tatin.
9.    The Garifuna are about 3,500, and are in the villages of Quewehe and some in Livingston and
Puerto Barrios. The Ladinos are about 500 in Sarstin and some 1,500 in Livingston.
10.   In the project area in Honduras the indigenous and ethnic population belong to the Garifuna
and Ladino communities in Cortes and Atlantida. The areas described for both countries are ones of
the fasting growing, specially because of migration which occurs in Guatemala because of the possi-
bility of having access to land, mainly municipal or state land; and in Honduras because of employ -
ment opportunities.
I1.    Women in the ethnic groups studied mainly play traditional roles, with their social indicators
reflecting inequalities, with high responsibilities in the economy and at home and very open to change.
12.   Women are key actors, very knowledgeable, consumer and user of their natural resources, and
thus, they are very interested in its conservation and resent its degradation. They define the demanc
coming from house consumption (including those products that contaminated), they select the home
energy sources, determine the methods for family health and for garbage disposal. Any environmertal
educational program must have them as a primary target.
13.    Women are hard workers, more responsible in managing the family budget and usually take
car of the home farms. However, the roles society assign them are the traditional ones. Most of those
consulted assigned them the roles of wives, mothers, and sometimes, house managers. Clearly they do
not decide, but participate, in community and government matters.
14.   There is a clear division of labor among gender groups, with women usually taking the ones
with lower salaries such as maids, teachers, secretaries, etc. Fishing is a male activity in which women
participate through the cleaning, drying and selling of the fish. Some of the new jobs created by the
Ecotourism industry, such as rangers, researchers, guides, boat operators, etc., are not open to women,
but they are very willing to enter that market.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 9
111.2  Regional Development
15.   In general the impact area's population has deep roots in the land and lifestyles have been
greatly influenced by the geography and environment. The land is very diverse, with many fragile eco-
systems. Some have little agricultural potential and yet are the last agricultural frontier. All possess
great beauty, and are centers of unique ecological processes, full of cultural richness and diversity with
multiethnic characteristics. Due to this, in all the countries many areas in or around the Project area
have been declared specially protected areas or ecological reserves. This zone is experiencing pro-
found changes which have affected the region's natural environment and its inhabitants, particularly
ethnic groups.
16.    The vast majority of local groups have lived on and worked the land without benefit of legal
titles; their claim comes from the long-standing nature of their settlements. This causes great uncer-
tainty among the inhabitants, particularly in recent years due to land pressure produced by tourism and
real estate development. The inhabitants' movements do not obey political-administrative divisions;
they constantly move across borders. Cultures and traditions reflect ethnic identity and history, not
borders. Nevertheless, no information and knowledge exists, nor is research being done or information
being gathered about local cultures, history or ecosystems.
17.    Traditional economic activities- fisheries and agriculture- have stagnated or declined in all the
countries. This is due to factors that impact negatively on these economic activities, such as inappro-
priate practices, and to factors which lure the population towards other activities such as tourism and
urban development. Socio-economic development has been very inequitable, reflected in the poverty
rates for the zone, which are even higher for the ethnic groups. This has stimulated large portions of
the local population to migrate, mainly towards the United States, resulting in their remittances be-
coming an important source for the local economy.
18.    Disorganized and uncontrolled growth of human settlements along the coast and coastal cays
has served as a magnet for the economically active population (EAP) and has negatively affected the
environment and the MBRS. Wastewater and garbage are not properly treated, except in Belize. There
have been several natural or man-made disasters in the zone, but none of the countries has prevention
or response policies or plans available to deal with them.
19.    Fisheries continues to be the means of subsistence for several of the local populations, the
majority of which use traditional methods. But this has been affected by inappropriate practices, water
pollution, natural disasters and climatic changes. Fishing is men's work, although women perform
several of the activities which are indispensable and complementary to the industry.
20.    The development that has most affected the zone is that of the tourism industry. This sector
has undergone accelerated development in an uneven, unsustainable and dependent manner. Tourism
is unsustainable due to the pressure it puts on the environment, as well as the social problems it causes.
The mass tourism that has developed in zones adjacent to those in the Project, especially in the Yuca-
tan and Bay Islands, has upset the ecological balance. The clients and investors of the tourism industry
are foreigners; this creates dependency, and on top of migration, affects local cultures.
21.    Although currently proposed tourism is low-impact, the local population has created fears that
this tourist development, together with environmental protection measures, will deprive them of, or at
least reduce, their traditional means of subsistence and affect their culture. These perceptions and the
interests of the local population towards tourism vary according to social class; higher income and
more educated groups are more open to it.



Annex 12
Page 4 of 9
111.3  Capabilities, Risks and Potential Conflict Areas
22.   The poverty the great majority of the population lives in leads them to a life of subsistence in
which the fundamental concern is meeting basic needs, even at the expense of their environment.
Given the lack of more environmentally suitable alternatives, which basic infrastructure and alterr a-
tive employment opportunities could provide, the local residents are compelled to damage their eco-
system.
23.   Lack of education and information about environmental issues, cultural values and histor- of
the region's ethnic groups leads to low awareness about the importance of the environment and limits
the possibilities for alternative employment. Prejudice and fear against the tourism industry also exists,
because of the negative impacts it has had on local populations, from the way it has been developed up
until now (mass tourism). The local population does not distinguish between this tourism and the al-
ternative of ecotourism and the Project, therefore their prejudices and fears extend to these. There is,
therefore, a need for education about the Project and ecotourism. This awareness-raising and educa-
tional process should happen as soon as possible to avoid negative feelings and gain support for the
Project.
24.   The ways in which the tourist industry is developing, or is planned to be developed in some
cases, does not reflect the goals of preservation and harmony with the environment. So that this un-
sustainable brand of tourism does not happen, or does not continue in some cases, regulatory and op-
erating mechanisms for ecotourism need to be defined along with incentives for compliance, as well as
the institutional means to enforce these regulations.
25.   For the educational campaign and Project implementation to be effective appropriate interme-
diaries need to be used. For the ethnic groups and indigenous population these are the traditional ones
with a presence in the region. Many times these are ethnic or professional organizations, which should
join forces with other, more formal or more eminent institutions.
26.   Area urban and economic development create serious environmental contamination problems;
wastewater and garbage are not treated. Urban growth and real estate development occur without
proper planning and with even less adequate regulation and control. These developmental problems
are heightened by the lack of a disaster prevention policy and the mechanisms to enforce such a policy
or mitigate the effects of these phenomena.
27.    This relatively recent growth puts pressure on the land, which have been occupied by indige-
nous and ethnic groups without legal security. This legal insecurity over land is creating social unrest,
accelerated environmental degradation and hinders participation in the Project and other environ-
mental programs.
28.   Border tensions exists along Belize's borders; to the north due to a border dispute and to the
south due to differences in regulations and differences in the way different national groups respect
these regulations. These tensions are also due to inappropriate fishing techniques still employed by
some groups.
29.    Lastly, but equally important, is the discrimination women endure in these ethnic groups
which affects the lack of environmental preservation, does not allow for a more equitable balance in
development and wastes valuable resources.



Annex 12
Page 5 of 9
III.4  Perception of the Project
30.   The Project is little known in the impact area, but when it is presented to the communities,
they all considered that it could have a favorable impact and see it as positive. Upon learning about the
Project, the local inhabitants' expectations are high; the majority hope that the Project will provide
employment opportunities, training and a better environment. There also exist fears regarding the
Project over the negative impact upon traditional employment opportunities, foreign intrusion, ineq-
uity in its benefits and political preferences in its implementation.
31.   All the communities expressed that they would like to participate actively in the project, pri-
marily by means of representation on the advisory committee, participation in the implementation of
certain components and by conducting a social audit of the Project.
111.5 Recommended Actions
32.   To counteract risks, take advantage of capabilities and avoid the potential conflicts previously
mentioned, the SA makes a series of recommendations described below, the great majority of which
are contained in the Indigenous People's Participation and Development Plan. The recommendations
not contained in the Plan are beyond the scope of the Project or are being addressed by other projects
being implemented or planned.
33.   As poverty is one of the factors most affecting the environment, and since income generation
is the priority identified by the people, the creation of alternative sources of income must be given top-
priority attention. Alternatives identified are fish and ocean farming, and strengthening and opening-
up jobs created by ecotourism and maritime handicrafts, especially to women. In order for all these
alternative businesses to be successful they should be accompanied by technical assistance and some
initial subsidies.
34.   Environmental, cultural and historical research, awareness-raising and educational programs
should be supported and strengthened. This would have the objective of reinforcing local inhabitants'
esteem and pride, in order to strengthen their identity, train them and contribute to the tourism indus-
try. More should be learned about the MBRS and local ecosystems, history and cultures. This should
be disseminated to the different target groups in an accessible manner, which implies appropriate lan-
guage use in the local languages.
35.   Ecotourism must obey clear rules and limits on its development and mechanisms should exist
to reach general agreement on, disseminate and ensure compliance with these norms, through moni-
toring and enforcement and adequate incentive systems.. The development of this industry should in-
clude cultural, historical and environmental aspects, primarily those of the region and its ethnic groups
and population. Ecotourism should train, educate and include local people, especially women, indige-
nous people and members of etlnic groups.
36.    To overcome prejudices and negative perceptions against the Project and the development of
low-impact tourism, the related education and training components should take place as soon as possi-
ble, at the same time as the other components, if not sooner. This information and education campaign
should be adapted to the different target groups; it can be imparted through the formal educational
system as well as through the non-formal, utilizing native languages and a simple format.
37.   The phenomenon of urban and real estate development in the zone and its effects on the envi-
ronment and local populations are far-reaching and have great impact, but correcting them requires
actions beyond the scope of the Project. Nevertheless, sustainable land use can be encouraged through



Annex 12
Page 6 of 9
the planning and discussing of master plans, training about the use of public goods and policy guide-
lines for real estate development. Ordenamiento Territorial (Land Use Planning) and Ordenamieito
Ecologico (Ecological Zoning), have been legally mandated in Mexico, and planning is underway in
Quintana Roo. In Belize, zoning plans for the entire coastline have been developed by the Coasta
Zone Management Authority and are in the process of being implemented. Although Honduras has no
equivalent land use plans for the Caribbean Coast, zoning and strategic planning for nature and cl. lture
based tourism development will be supported under a World Bank Project for Sustainable Coasta
Tourism being developed in parallel with the GEF MBRS Project. Only Guatemala does not yet h ave
any ongoing or proposed Zoning or Land Use Planning for its Caribbean Coast.
38.    The conflicts that occur among fishermen and between them and the authorities in the two
border areas in the north and south of Belize should be studied and discussed, with an attempt at i -n-
plementing mechanisms, some temporary, to enforce agreements, including respect for fishing prac-
tices.
39.   Women's participation should be fostered and furthered on the Project technical working
groups and the National Barrier Reef Committees and in the institutions providing services to the
Project. Opening up to women certain jobs traditionally reserved for men must be supported, and
women should be given preference in training for these kinds of work. Educational programs shotl Id
include gender components. Institutions that already have a presence in the area and have worked
around these issues should be used to implement these projects.
40.   Local organizations have widely varying capabilities; because of this the Project needs to sup-
port them, which is achieved mainly by working with them during implementation. All the institutions
are interested in working with the Project, although to do that some need to be strengthened, whici
can be achieved through workshops, training and coordination.
41.    Social tension generated by insecurity over land tenure among several of the local ethnic and
indigenous groups is one of the areas of greatest potential conflict, and at the same time it influences
poor environmental management. Therefore, it must be studied and discussed as part of the Projeci, at
least in terms of the land in the Project impact area.
42.   Many of the solutions and actions proposed here are only viable, and others will be much
more effective, if they are carried out from a regional perspective and as a regional effort, involving all
four countries. Those actions and policies that support the Project, if it is to achieve its objectives,
should also seek equity between groups, giving preference to ethnic and indigenous groups and
women.
IV.   Participation Plan and Indigenous People's Development Plan
43.   The Project Paticipation Plan, which includes anIndigenous People's Development Plan (The
Plan) presented below was developed to take into account the majority of the above-mentioned rec-
ommendations. Its target groups include indigenous and ethnic groups, and preferentially women,
from the Project impact area. Many of the actions are focused on the tourism and fishing industries
due to their importance in the area.
44.   The budget to implement the Plan has been included in the Project cost tables. Its implemeni-
tation would take care of all the concerns expressed by the communities and ethnic groups during tie
consultation process of the social analysis, that are not being addressed by other means or projects n
the area. These groups did not identified any potential negative impacts of the project in their commu-
nities and environment.



Annex 12
Page 7 of 9
45.    The social communications campaign would address the lack of education and information
about environmental issues and reduce the prejudice and fears against the tourism industry that some
have. Special effort would be made to target many of those activities to the local groups, ensuring that
the educational material is produced in their languages and including these topics in the formal and
informal education systems. It is important that this component starts as early as possible in the proj-
ect.
46.   By identifying and developing alternative income generating opportunities or simply opening
existing jobs to minorities and women the second component of the program would contribute to miti-
gate the effects of poverty and inequality.
47.   The institutional development component would strengthen management and technical capac-
ity of local institutions, mainly the fishing cooperatives. The Plan recommends that the main target of
this component be the institutions that have a presence in the project area, many of which are the eth-
nic and professional associations or cooperatives.
48.   Existing and potential areas of conflict would be either reduced or avoided by studying and
discussing the issues of the regulatory framework for the economic development of indigenous and
ethnic groups, the land tenure and land security, socio-environmental conflicts and by training com-
munity leaders. All of these are the topics of the last three components of the Plan.



Annex 12
Page 8 of 9
Participation Plan and Indigenous Peoples Development Matrix
MBRS Project
Activities           Benefits for Indigenous                                             Cost
Strategies   _       Activities           Groups and Communities           Indicators             Time        (USD)
1. Planning, design and im-   Communities increase their    At least 75% of indigenous   2001-2005  360,020
plementation of environmental knowledge about links between and Afro-Caribbean com-
education campaign.        environment and development  munities benefit from cam-
and derive increased capacity   paign by EOP.
for natural resource manage-
ment.
2. Planning, design and im-   Communities and teachers  At least 25% of indigenous   2002-2005    261,230
plementation to increase envi-  increase their knowledge about and Afro-Caribbean com-
El      ronmental and MBRS content  their environment and MBRS.  munities benefit from formal
in local formal educational                            environmental education
systems.                                               campaign by EOP.
3. Non-formal education to    Business owners and employ-   At least 40% of indigenous   2002-2005  199,120
commercial sectors on envi-   ees receive training about  and Afro-Caribbean com-
E       ronmental issues.           MBRS and environment.       munities benefit from train-
o                                                               ing by EOP.                              .       -
u        4. Dissemination of best   Indigenous and ethnic popula-  1,000 copies of publication   2002-2003  49,000
practices for MPA manage-   tions gain increased knowledge disseminated by EOP.
ment and sustainable tourism   about sustainable tourism and
.       development including bene-  MPA management.
fits for indigenous populations
and ethnic groups.
5. Environmental certification  Increased awareness of and  At least 25% of indigenous   2001-2005  135,280
program.                   opportunities to benefit from    and Afro-Caribbean com-
environmental certification  munities benefit from pro-
programs.                   gram by EOP.
I. Training of park rang-  Women, indigenous people,    Representatives from at least  2002-2004  156,300
ers/ecological guides or ad-    other ethnic group members,   10% of indigenous and/ or
ministrators.              and other non-indigenous    Afro-Caribbean individuals
o                                   communities receive training   trained by EOP.
as guides, park rangers or ad-
ministrators.
2. Sustainable livelihoods  Women, indigenous people and Representatives from at least 2002-2004  124,440
promotion program.         other members of ethnic groups 50% of indigenous or Afro-
*                                   are trained and learn about new  Caribbean communities
0                                   employment-generating alter-  trained by EOP.
U                                   natives.
3. Tour to visit exemplary  Women, indigenous people and At least 10% of participants  2002       127,040
e       practices of marine tourism.   other members of ethnic groups derived from indigenous or
-                                   are trained and learn about new  Afro-Caribbean communi-
-0<                                 employment generating alter-  ties.
_                                   natives.



Annex 12
Page 9 of 9
Strategies .ActIivi.ieBenefits for Indigenous                               I                l                Cost
Strategies Altivities                    Groups and Communities             I                    Tinie       (USD)
1. Training in drafting man-   Local institutions strengthen    At least four local and com-  2001-2003  160,200
e:        agement plans for MPAs.    their capacity to manage pro-   munity institutions and non-
tected areas.               government organizations
receive training by EOP.
2. Technical assistance for    Fishing cooperatives strengthen At least four institutions  2002-2004  224,730
fishing cooperatives and other their technical managerial ca-  representing Indigenous or
institutions.              pability.                   Afro-Caribbean groups re-
_                                                                 ceive technical assistance or
training by EOP.
1. National Barrier Reef  Increased participation of in-   Representatives of at least   2001-2005  204,850
Committees and technical   digenous and ethnic groups in  50% of indigenous and eth-
& W v  working groups formed which  decision making related to  nic groups will participate in
will incorporate representation  sustainability of the MBRS.    National Barrier Reef Com-
^ o~ :   of indigenous and ethnic                               mittees or TWGs from BOP
o. a    groups.                                                 to EOP.
t '        2. Formation and continuous  Increased participation of in-   In those MPAs which affect  2003     84,000
c       operation of local advisory    digenous peoples in the design, indigenous communities, the
m v ~ 4    councils in relation to estab-   implementation and monitoring representatives of indige-
o cA z     lishment and management of  of MPAs.                   nous or Afro-Caribbean
(w 8, MPAs.                                                  people on the committees
will be of such a number as
- ;                                                             to reflect such communities'
-                                                                  proportions in the local
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   population.
X 5~  1. Form technical working    Land tenure issues analyzed    Land tenure issues addressed 2001        112,500
,   group and hold bi-annual   and discussed in the context of  in at least 33% communities
>;  c~ @ Z meetings which address land   MPA management by technical associated with MPAs by
tenure issues.             working groups.             EOP.
1. Drafting and discussion of  Integration of conservation  Indigenous livelihood issues  2002-2004  780,120
master plans.              objectives with livelihood con-  addressed in management
cems in marine protected area  and operation plans for all
management planning.        Project MPAs that affect
LV <,sindigenous peoples.
.~ ^      2. Training of local leaders    Community leaders more ca-   Forty women, indigenous    2002-2003  174,305
4i     and others in community rela- pable of exercising leadership,  people, members of other
tions and the use of public  manage community relations   ethnic groups and non-
> h;      goods.                      and managing public goods.   indigenous groups trained by
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   E O P .
1. Monitoring and evaluataion Quantitative and qualitative  Participatory assessment of  2002-2005  50,000
.~ o        of Project performance and    socio-economic information on  progress against project
_           impact.                    impact of Project on indige-    indicators for Indigenous
> m < e5                                  nous peoples' welfare and   and Afro-Caribbean groups
livelihoods.                at Midterm Review and Fi-
nal Project Evaluation



Annex 13
Page I of 13
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 13
Threat and Root Cause Analysis
Matrix 1: Main Threats to the Ecological Health of the MBRS and their Root Causes' and Actions Proposed to Address Them
Threat                                                                                      Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                     I                     Regional Initiatives
A. Coastal/Island Development and Unsutstainable Tourism
1. Urbanization at Inappropriate Sites in  a. Participatory development and implementation of land-use plans and   i. Technical assistance and training in the preparation and enforcement
Coastal Areas without Adequate Envi-    zoning based on economic, social, cultural and environmental parame-    of land-use and zoning plans; promote the use of habitat mapping
ronmental Engineering and Management ters, preferably at the subregional level; including the establishment and   among parameters used to determine zoning, land use and biodiversity
Practices                              active co-management of reserves,                               conservation through establishment of system of coastal and marine
protected areas (MPAs).
b. Development of sector-specific guidelines for preparation of ElAs and  ii. Publication and dissemination of practical guides for the preparation
standards and codes for land development and structures in coastal areas.  of sector-specific ElAs and building/construction codes for coastal ar-
eas.
c. Development of local (municipal, developer, NGO) capacity to prepare  iii. Technical assistance and training of GOs and NGOs in the prepara-
EIAs and enforce and monitor mitigation compliance.            tion of sector-specific ElAs, practical mitigation and enforcement
strategies.
d. Development of inventories of coastal resources and use/user conflicts  iv. Co-implementation with local GOs and NGOs of a regional initiative
(including land use, water resources, geomorphology, ecosystem compo-  for development of coastal resources inventories, using uniform pa-
sition/condition, and point sources of contamination, sedimentation and   rameters of analysis and presentation, and taking advantage of regional
impact), and monitoring of selected indicators of condition and intactness  economies of scale for purchase and analysis of data (imagery, re-
(esp. water quality).                                          search). Publication of a "Status of the MBRS" with national annexes.
e. Assistance to national and local GOs in reforming their governance  v. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
model to streamline and decentralize planning and normative procedures,  (SICA-CCAD, WB, IDB, UINDP, UNFP, etc.) to facilitate GO and
promote integrated coastal management models, and actively enforce  private sector officials' incorporation of the environmental costs of land
zoning and protected areas regulations.                        and resources development into national and local government ac-
counts, including permanent environmental monitoring programs.
f LIift subsidies favoring coastal and urban development, and charge the   vi. Support continuing initiatives to consolidate and expand the Meso-
real costs for water, energy, sanitation and transport, including their envi- American Biological Corridor and its marine-coastal extensions in each
ronmental and social costs.                                    country.
I For correlation of intermediate and root causes for each respective threat, see corresponding section of Matrix 1.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 13
Threat                                                                                      Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                                           Regional Initiatives
2. Uncontrolled, Poorly-Planned Tourism  a [See A.l.a, b, c, d, e & f above]                          i. [See A. 1.i, ii, iii, iv, v & vi above]
Development in Coastal Areas and Off-   b. Develop participatory community-based strategies for tourism devel-  ii. Assistance to facilitate environmental awareness and use of clean
shore Islands                          opment, avoiding dependence on the "Club Med Model".           technology and total-quality manufacturing processes as promoted un-
der ISO 9000 and 14000 initiatives, Green Globe and others; dissemi-
nation of practical guides and seminars for the tourism sector; dissemi-
nate guidelines for sustainable tourism development, using the Sian
Ka'an/USAID and CEP/CEN project materials as a basis.
c. Implement vocational rehabilitation training programs to transform  iii. Facilitate regional training-of-trainers courses to local NGOs, uni-
farmers, fishers and laborers into tourism/sportfishing/ecotourism guides  versities and educators, in vocational rehabilitation to support the tour-
and related fields to generate the local economy.              ism industry.
d. Determine canrying capacities at specific tourist/dive/fishing sites, and  iv. Facilitate local workshops with GO, NGO, tour operators, commu-
for islands, protected areas and reef areas as a whole; form a committee   nity members using uniform methodologies for the region for deter-
of resource users, tourist operators, conservationists and responsible GO   mining carrying capacities for different types tourism activities in dif-
authority and, based on best judgmnent and--considering environmental,   ferent settings. Disseminate guides and technical materials as listed in
social and economic factors--propose the numbers and types (profes-  USAID/URI's "Selected Guidelines, Handbooks and Tools for Coral
sional divers, cruise-ship tourists, backpackers, day-trippers, over-  Reef Management".
nighters, etc.) that should occupy a site/area for how long, in what season
and how accompanied.
e. Promulgate diving and pleasure boating regulations, placing responsi-  v. Provide uniform guidelines for the preparation of diver/pleasure-
bility of awareness training on tour/dive operators and divemasters.  boater guides so that local regulations and rules can be developed for all
destinations in the MBRS.
f. Institute the use of a portion of tourist/airport taxes, divers' tags, con-   vi. Disseminate uniform guidelines for the development of self-
cessions, admission fees fro MPAs and similar mechanisms, returning all  financing mechanisms for community-managed reserves (lagoons, natu-
revenue to the locations where they were collected to foster self-  ral areas, reefs and islands).
financing conservation programs and protected areas management.  vii. Promote the Galapagos Tourism Model, which combines a research
facility and museum with tourism (also practiced at Anthony's Key
Resort/Marine Sciences Center in Sandy Bay, Roatan).
3. Uncontrolled Operation of Cruise    a. Develop a cruise-ship/live-aboard tourism policy and regulations, that  i. Facilitate assistance and demonstrations/models for the development
Ships and Live-Aboards                  promote the use of local services and personnel, and provide awareness  of cruise-ship/live-aboard tourism, including policies, regulations and
and skills training as required.             proposals for support infrastructure. Use the experience of the Belize
Tourism Board as a starting point.
b. Develop options for reception of cruise-ship wastes at local ports, in-   ii. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
cluding a tipping/disposal fee to finance environmentally-sound disposal  (SICA-CCAD, WB, IDB, IOCARIBE, UNEP/CEP, UNDP, UNEP,
facilities.                                                    etc.) to facilitate adoption and/or ratification and enforcement by the
c. [See A.2.d above]                                           four countries, of international conventions related to the management
of wastes from ships.



Annex 13
Page 3 of 13
Threat                                                                                         Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                                             Regional Initiatives
4. Industrialization in Coastal Areas   a. [See A. 1 .a, b, c, d, e & f above]                           i. [See A. .i, ii, iii, iv, v & vi above]
without Adequate Environmental Engi-   b. Ratify and enforce regional and international conventions relating to    ii. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
neering and Management Practices        disposal of wastes into the sea and coastai areas.                (SICA-CCAD, WB, IDB, IOCARIBE, UNEP/CEP, UNDP. UNEP,
etc.) to facilitate adoption and/or ratification and enforcement by the
four countries, of international conventions related to control of dis-
charges of wastes into the sea and coastal areas.
c. Develop an inventory of industries in areas where contami-   iii. Assistance to facilitate environmental awareness and use of clean
nation is known or suspected, recording aspects of the nature, volume,    technology and total-quality manufacturing processes as promoted un-
form, locations and frequency of waste disposal; facilitate improvement   der ISO 9000 and 14000 initiatives; dissemination of practical guides
of current licensing/permitting systems for operation of industrial proc-    and seminars by industrial sector.
esses based in part on this inventory, environmental auditing and moni-
toring of selected parameters (esp. water quality). "Hot spots" should be
indicated for more research, frequent monitoring and control.
5. Unplanned, Uncontrolled Small Scale   a. [See A. l.a, b, c, d, e & f above]                           i. [See A.l.i, ii, iii, iv, v & vi above]
and Industrial Agricultural D)evelopment  b. Intensify programs for settlement/resettlement of landless and poor,    ii. Provide financing and assistance for settlement of the landless and
in Coastal Areas                        and promote equitable sale, transfer and titling of lands, and provide  poor in areas based on strict integrated land-use planning, good envi-
technical assistance for appropriate land and natural resource use, in-  ronmental management and social equity and economic opportunity;
cluding sustainabte agriculture to support the tourism industry.  and assistance for improved land and resource use systems.
c. Develop an inventory of point and non-point sources known or sus-               iii. [See A.4.iii above]
pected of contamination, recording aspects of the nature, volume, form,
locations and frequency of waste disposal; facilitate improvement of
current control and/or licensing/permitting systems for discharges (or
runoff) of agricultural operations based in part on this inventory and
monitoring of selected parameters (esp. water quality). "Hot spots"
should be indicated for more research, frequent monitoring and control
6. Petroleum Exploration and Develop-    a. [See A. L.a, b, c, d & f above]                              i. [See A. I .i, ii, iii, iv, v & vi and A.4.iii above]
ment in Fragile Areas and/or without    b. Develop an inventory of all oil exploration/exploitation sites/areas;  ii. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
Adequate Environmental Engineering      develop contingency plans and response capability for the containment    (SICA-CCAD, WB, IDB, IOCARIBE, UNEP/CEP, UNDP, UJNEP,
and Management Practices                and control of oil spills and related accidents. Ratify and/or enforce re-    etc.) to facilitate adoption and/or ratification and enforcement by the
gional and international conventions relating to cleanup of oil spills in the  four countries, of international conventions related to control of oil
sea and obtain necessary equipment for same.                     spills in the Wider Caribbean (MARPOL., Cartagena Convention).
.B. Inpprtprite lnlandResource  ndLai*d Use andIndustrial Dvelopment
1. Conversion of Fragile Lands to Agri-   a. Participatory development and implementation of watershed manage-  i. Technical assistance and training in the preparation and enforcement
cultural Uses in Upland Watersheds and   ment plans and zoning based on economic, social, cultural and environ-   of watershed management and zoning plans; promote the use of habitat
Riparian Areas                          mental parameters, preferably at the subregional level; including the  mapping among parameters used to determine zoning for land use and
establishment and active co-management of reserves.              biodiversity conservation through establishment of system of protected
areas.
b. [See A.5.b above]                                             ii jj   e A 5 ii abvCl
c. Develop updated inventories of natural resources, current land uses  iii. [See A. I .v & vi above]
and socioeconomic parameters (including land/resource tenure) in water-
sheds as a basis for preparation of watershed management plans and pro-
grams.



Annex 13
Page 4 of 13
Threat                                                                                      Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                                           Regional Initiatives
d. Provide assistance to national and local GOs in reforming their gov-    e. Convene seminars with GO officials from countries in the region to
ernance model to streamline and decentralize planning and normative  present and discuss integrated land-use/natural resources planning, with
procedures, and integrated enforcement of zoning and protected areas  emphasis on decentralization and local empowerment.
regulations.
e. Lift subsidies favoring lowland extensive cattle ranching and logging
in upland watersheds, and charge the real costs for water and energy
services derived from watersheds, including their environmental and
social costs.
2. Inland Industrial Development with-   a. Participatory development and implementation of land-use plans and   i. Technical assistance and training in the preparation and enforcement
out Adequate Environmental Engineer-  industrial zoning based on economic, social, cultural and environmental   of land-use and zoning plans.
ing and Management Practices           paramneters, preferably at the subregional level.
b. Development of sector-specific guidelines for preparation of ElAs and  ii. Publication and dissemination of practical guides for the preparation
standards and codes for land development and industrial processes.  of sector-specific ELAs and building/construction codes for relevant
sectors.
c. Development of local (municipal, developer, NGO) capacity to prepare  iii. Technical assistance and training of GOs and NGOs in the prepara-
ELAs and enforce and monitor mitigation compliance; promote voluntary  tion of sector-specific EIAs, practical mitigation and enforcement
compliance with environmental regulations (ISO 14000).         strategies.
d. Development of inventories of water resources, ecosystem composi-   iv. [See A.4.iii above]
tion/condition, and point sources of contamination and impact, as a basis  v. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
for improvement of current systems of permits for industrial processes,   (SICA-CCAD, WB, 1DB, UNDP, UNEP, bilaterals, etc.) to facilitate
and to facilitate monitoring of selected environmental indicators (esp.  GO and private sector officials' incorporation of the environmental
water quality).                                                costs of industrial development into national and local government ac-
counts, including permanent environmental monitoring programs.
3. Building of Transport Infrastructure   a. [See B. L.d and B.2.a and c]                              i. [See B.2.i, ii and iii above]
(Roads, Airports) without Adequate En-  b. Development of sector-specific guidelines for preparation of ElAs and  ii. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
vironmental Engineering and Contingen-  standards and codes for construction.                          (SICA-CCAD, WB, IDB, UNDP, UNEP, etc.) to facilitate GO and
cies for Socioeconomic G;rowth and En-   c. Development of inventories of land and water resources, ecosystem  private sector officials' incorporation of the environmental costs of
vironmental                            composition/condition and socioeconomic parameters as a basis for land-  transport development into national and local government accounts,
use plans and routing of transport corridors, and to facilitate monitoring   including permanent environmental monitoring programs.
of selected environmental indicators (esp. WQ)
C_  Overshing and Inamprfopie Aquacltlure bevelopment
1. Unsustainable Industrial, Artisanal  a. Modernize fisheries laws and regulations considering new realities of   i. Facilitate uniform fisheries policies and regulations (closed season,
and Sport Fisheries Practices          equipment (fishfinders, GPS, etc.), declining stocks, saturation of fishing  size/catch limits, no-take T&E species, equipment restrictions, etc.)
fleet, and alternative resource utilization (sportfishing, tourism),  throughout the region, based on regional conditions and fisheries in the
MBRS. Propose a system of incentives to industrial fishers to reduce
their fleets and fishing activities, and propose economic alternatives to
current fisheries practices; propose a uniform system for recording fish-
eries harvests/landings and develop a database for assessing trends for
sustainable fisheries and conservation purposes.



Annex 13
Page5ofl3
Threat                                                                                            Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                                               Regional Initiatives
b. Provision of needed equipment, trained personnel and judicial process  ii. Develop and/or expand use of modern monitoring equipment (im-
to enforce fisheries regulations, especially closed seasons and areas, size   agery, telemetered buoys for meteorological and oceanographic data)
limits, quotas on volume, and equipment restrictions; develop an accurate  for locating spawning aggregations, nutrient upwellings, and other pa-
and permanent program for monitoring industrial and artisanal fisheries   rameters useful in assessing productivity and needs for conservation.
harvest/landings that include fishing locations.
c. Reduce the number of industrial fishing boat permits (esp. Honduras    iii. Provide regional seminars and practical on-site training of GO and
and Mexico) through attrition and the use of incentives; strengthen re-  NGO staffs in aspects of vigilance and enforcement, research and
strictions on trawling in known seagrass and reef areas, and sites of sea-   monitoring, both to promote sustainable yields and conservation.
sonal spawning aggregations of species at risk.
d. Promote technical and awareness training to industrial and artisanal    iv. Promote the formation on bi-national (Belize/Mexico) and trinational
fishers to improve sustained yields; facilitate vocational rehabilitation of  (Belize/Guatemala/Honduras) fishers' associations as fora for resolution
artisanal fishers to sportfishing, diving and coastal/aquatic-ecology  of conflicts among artisanal and industrial fishers in transboundary wa-
guides; protect the rights of artisanal fishers (esp. indigenous groups) to   ters and training in best practices; distribute educational & public
the resources that they have traditionally exploited.              awareness & best practices media to fisheries cooperatives & industrial
interests; support establishment and management of a bi-national MPAs
between Belize and Mexico (Xcalak-Bacalar Chico) and trinational
system of coastal and MPAs in the Gulf of Honduras.
e. Promote aquaculture for replenishment of lagoons and estuaries with    v. Promote the MBRS Section of the Meso-American Biological Corri-
species at risk or of economic importance.                         dor in order to ensure linkages of reef, lagoon and estuary ecosystems
f. Consolidate systems of MPAs as a strategy to increase stocks of T&E    along the entire coast, especially for recruitment of larvae and fry for
and other species under stress (Hol Chan Marine Reserve experience);    reef organisms, as well as to conserve the tourism resource. Support the
include sites of spawning aggregations within the system of marine pro-   establishment and management of MPAs with linkages to regional and
tected areas.                                                      international organizations promoting the SPAW Protocol. Promote
signature of the SPAW Protocol by MBRS countries.
2. Inappropriate Development and Op-    a. Restrict aquaculture operations to sites designated for same under ade-  i. Facilitate training-of-trainers for sustainable aquaculture in MBRS
eration of Aquaculture for Shrimp, Ti-    quately prepared land-use plans for integrated coastal zone management   countries, especially in aspects of siting, construction and contingency
lapia and other Species                  [See A. 1 .a, b, c & d above).                                      planning.
b. Develop clear guidelines and regulations for operation of aquaculture   ii. Promote aquaculture operations as a regional strategy for replenish-
operations, including preparation of contingency plans in case of hurri-    ment of stocks in local lagoons and estuaries--nurseries for reef and
canes, flooding and accidents; monitoring compliance with these regula-   open water fishes.
tions.
c. Restrict or prohibit collection of larvae and fry from coastal areas (la-
goons, estuaries, beaches) for use in aquaculture operations.
3. Uncontrolled Bio-prospecting          a. Development of regulations and permits, with specified collection  i. Assistanec to develop a uniform bio-prospecting policy and standard
areas and monitoring of concessions.                               regulations, both to facilitate bio-prospecting and to ensure maintenance
of composition of reefs, protection of species of interest from depreda-
tion, and patent rights.



Annex 13
Page 6 of 13
Threat                                                                                         Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                      I                      Regional Initiatives
D. Inappropriate Port M'anagement, Shipping atd Navigation Practices
1. Construction of Ports, Jetties, Piers,    a. [See A. La, b, c, d, e & ti                              i. [See A. .i, ii, iii. iv, v & vi]
Oil Terminals and Dredging of Channels
without Adequate Environmental Engi-
neering and Construction Practices
2. Port and Shipping Operations without  b. Develop an inventory of all types of cargo and ships that normally  i. Utilize regional and international political lobby and assistance
Adequate Navigational and Environ-      come into ports or sail through area and determine the levels of risk asso-  (SICA-CCAD, WB, IDB, IOCARIBE, UNEP/CEP, UNDP, UNEP,
mental Management Practices             ciated with these in terms of environmental damage, likely impacts and    etc.) to facilitate adoption and/or ratification and enforcement by the
probable areas affected; develop contingency plans and response capa-    four countries, of international conventions related to safe navigation,
bility for the containment and control of oil spills, founderings, ground-   ports operations. control of wastes from ships, control of oil spills, etc.
ings, collisions and related accidents; and obtain equipment and training   in the Wider Caribbean (MARPOL, Cartagena Convention, etc.).
for applying the plan.
c. Ratify and/or enforce regional and international conventions relating to  ii. Provide financing, technical assistance and training to facilitate com-
control of wastes from ships, safe stowage, transboundary movement of   pliance with international conventions and treaties among nations of the
hazardous materials, cleanup of oil spills in the sea, etc.; update relevant   MBRS to pool resources for mutual enforcement of shipping and pollu-
legislation and regulations to reflect these; and obtain necessary equip-    tion control regulations and conventions (national and international),
ment for same.                                                   and response to contingencies (accidents, collisions, spills, etc.).
d. Modernize all navigational aides, communication equipment, bathy-
metric and navigation charts, etc. to facilitate improved and safer ship-
ping; prepare a port management plan comprising all aspects of naviga-
tion, transfer of cargo, waste disposal policies and contingency plans.
e. Develop options to receive ship wastes at local ports; tipping/ disposal
fees to finance environmentally-sound disposal facilities.



Annex 13
Page 7 of 13
Threat                                                                                                 Proposed Actions
National Initiatives                                                  Regional Initiatives
PThe following recommendations are to faci tato better uidersftanding ofthese naturally-ocring phenoena which c   xacerbte ne-gativ enviro tal impacts ofantlropogenic uses within the MPRS]
1. Predominating and Seasonal Currents  a. Inprove and fund monitoring of currents and winds in MBRS coun-    i. Facilitate development of a regional coastal zone monitoring system
and Winds                                  tries' respective territorial waters, as part of an overall integrated coastal   with uniform parameters, data collection & analytical methods, net-
zone monitoring program; other parameters to include in this program   worked throughout the MBRS, with links to international organizations
are: water quality (temperature, salinity, pH, transparency, TSS, DO,  already active in these activities (CARICOMP, NOAA,
nutrients, hydrocarbons, E. coli, and testing for other parameters, such as  IOC/IOCARIBE, WMO, FAO, CPACC, ITSU, U.S. Hurricane Forecast
pesticides or heavy metals, linked to natural and anthropogenic phenom-   Center, etc.)--including standardization of parameters and methods for coral
ena present in the region), ecological indicators (bio-accumulators,   reef (composition, condition/growth characteristics, bleaching, diseases), &
predators, keystone/indicator species of diversity, coral disease dynamics  water quality monitoring for the MBRS region. Provide financial and technical
assistance to achieve regional efficiencies of scale for permanent monitoring
programs, including provision of equipment, training and technical assistance.
2. Tropical Storms and Hurricanes          a. Enact necessary land-use planning/zoning legislation for coastal areas                 i. Facilitate preparation of regional guidelines for
and islands, and strictly enforce regulations on land clearing and removal  land-use planning and disaster preparedness, sector-specific contin-
of vegetation on shorelines, estuaries, mangroves and lagoons. Enforce  gency plans (industry, tourism, aquaculture, ports, etc.), and provide
compliance with siting and building standards for structures along the  technical assistance for their preparation at the national and subregional
coast, and prohibit occupation of low-lying areas prone to flooding. Pub-  (transboundary) levels.
lish and distribute regulations and guidelines to all citizens via mass me-
dia, in order to raise their awareness of the need for such regulations and
their obligations.
b. Recuperate/rehabilitate shorelines and critical coastal environments
(mangroves, beaches, headlands, dunes) as storm defenses.
c. Prepare/update emergency evacuation and contingency plans for tropi-
cal storms and hurricanes (disaster preparedness), including proper stor-
age/protection and/or relocation of hazardous and toxic substances.
3. El Niiio/La Niiia Events                 a. Monitor the impacts of these events to reef ecosystems (especially  i. [See E. L.i
bleaching), correlating the distribution and levels of bleaching with pa-
rameters of water quality, currents and winds [See also E. I .a].
b. [See E.2.a, b & c]                                                 ii. [See E.2.i]
4. Diseases in Coral and other Organisms  a. Monitor the incidence and distribution of coral diseases and diseases in  i. [See E.I .i]
in Coastal and Reef Ecosystems             other organisms and their correlation to dynamics of water quality, cur-
rents and winds [See also E. .a and E.3.a]
5. Climate Change/Global Warming           a. [See E. L.a and E.2.a, b & c and E.3.a]                             i. [See E. .i and E.2.i]
6. Earthquakes and Tsunamis                a. [See E. .a and E.2.a, b & c and E.3.a]                              i. [See E. I .i and E.2.i]



Annex 13
Page 8 of 13
Matrix 2: Principal Transboundary Issues
Nature of Threat and Location of Impacts           Origin of the Threats
1. Organic-nutrient contamination from coastal and in-    a. Agricultural runoff from large-scale sugarcane farms in the Rio Hondo and New River water-
land drainages, especially affecting estuarine and coastal  sheds (Belize and Mexico)
lagoon ecosystems from Bahia de Chetumal to Belize  b. Organic waste disposal from two sugar refineries (one each in Mexico and Belize) in the Rio
City; and fringing, patch and selected barrier reef eco-  Hondo and New River watersheds
systems from Xcalak-Bacalar Chico to Hick's Cayes in   c. Untreated sanitary waste disposal from Chetumal, Quintana Roo and Corozal, Belize, and seep-
Belize.                                            age from septic systems on Ambergris Caye
2. Sedimentation, organic and chemical contamination of  a. Agricultural runoff from coastal drainages & watersheds of Stann Creek, Placencia, Monkey
the Gulf of Honduras, especially affecting ecosystems of  River, Rio Grande, Rio Moho & Rio Sarstoon of Belize.
coastal estuaries, lagoon, seagrass bed and selected patch  b. Agricultural runoff from coastal drainages & watersheds of Rio Sarstn , Lago Izabal/Rio Dulce
reefs.                                             & agricultural and industrial drainages from Rio Motagua watershed of Guatemala
c. Agricultural runoff from coastal drainages & tributaries to Rio Motagua & agricultural & indus-
trial drainages from Rio Chamelecon & Rio Ulua watersheds of Honduras
d. Contamination from port operations and urban centers in Puerto Barrios/Puerto Castilla (Guate-
mala) & Puerto Cortes (Honduras)
3. Uncontrolled utilization/depredation of reef and fish-   a. Cross-border tourism by boat (live-aboards, divers, sport fishers) in Belize<-Mexico, and Be-
eries resources in the MBRS                        lize<-Guatemala4-Honduras
4. Uncontrolled fishing/depredation of fisheries re-  a. Cross-border industrial and artisanal fishing in Belize by Guatemalans, Hondurans and Mexi-
sources in the MBRS, especially for lobster, conch, se-    cans; Guatemala+-Honduras; and by some Belizeans in Mexico.
lected finfishes, turtles and manatee; and damage to
physical damage to reefs and seagrass beds
5. Contamination of territorial and intemational waters,   a. Illegal dumping of liquid, solid & hazardous wastes from ships, & shipping accidents in the
beaches, reefs, seagrass beds, estuaries and tidal wet-  MBRS, including: (i) dumping of sanitary and food wastes, oily bilge water and solid wastes from
lands with organic, chemical and/or solid wastes.  ships; (ii) dumping of municipal or industrial wastes fro disposal purposes; and (iii) collisions,
groundings and founderings of ships with rupture of fuel tanks and loss of lubricants, and/or spill of
hazardous cargo (petroleum and derivatives, fertilizer, pesticides/other chemicals, sugar, palm oil;
and lack of contingency plans/response capability in region
6. MBRS contamination from many origins as result of    7. Lack of regional & national disaster preparedness & contingency plans/capability for emergen-
tropical storms & hurricanes                       cies and response



Annex 13
Page 9 of 13
Matrix 3: Current and Planned Regional Projects/Programs with Relevance to the Conservation and Sustainable Use of the MBRS
Project/Program  Title &               Outreach/Project          National Focal Points/   Funding            Project         Objectives, Components, Activities
Executing Agency                       Area                     Counterparts               Level (US$)    Start/ End
Dates
Regional Environmental Program         All Central American    National and Local          25 million        1996-           Three principal programs: (i) Central American Protected Areas System,
for Central Amer-                      Nations                  GOs, NGOs & Com-           (COSTAS           2000(2nd        which supports consolidation of CAPAS, especially the Meso-American
icaiPRQARCA(US A1D/CCAD)                                         munity Groups(WWPF,    share is 5.9        phase prob-    Biological Corridor, through assistance in: improved management of PAs
TNC, Univ. Rhode          million from      able)           and bufter zone management, public conservation awareness, improved
TNC, Univ. Rhode                            ~~~~~~~~~national and cross-country legal frameworks, green products for export,
Island, International     USAID & 2.2                      alternative financing mechanisms, technical capacity building and infor-
Resources Group)          miliion from                      mation dissemination for national orgs. and the CCAD; (ii) Coastal Zone
TNC, WWF                         Management/COSTAS, which promotes integrated and sustainable man-
& URI)                           agement of coastal resources (fisheries, tourism, conservation of protected
areas), focusing especially on empowerment of local entities for steward-
ship of resources, in four transboundary priority sites of the Gulf of Hon-
duras (Belize/Guatemala/Honduras), Miskito Coast (Honduras/N icaragua),
Gulf of Fonseca (El Salvador/Honduras/Nicaragua) and Gandoca/Bocas
del Toro (Costa Rica/Panania),with the use of mini-grants to NGOs, con-
flict resolution, and training in aspects of strengthening governance and
policies in coastal management and in protected areas (Punta Manabique
and Port of Honduras) with emphasis on the Meso-American Barrier Reef
Initiative; and (iii) Environmental Protection and Legislation/LEPPI,
which supports developing environmental awareness and strengthening of
national and regional policy frameworks (EIA, land-use planning) and
local and national institutions to address pollution problems.
Conservation of the Meso-              Meso-American Ba-         GOs, NGOs, resource-                        1998 (on-       The MACR Ecoregion forms part of WWF's Global 200 Program, ori-
American Caribbean Reef Ecore-         rrier Reef                user groups                                 going)          ented to the conservation of 200 terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecore-
gion (WWF)                             System(Mexico to                                                                      gions where WWF believes that conservation efforts should be focused.
Flonduras)                                                                           WWF, in collaboration with GOs, NGOs and resources-user groups
(stakeholders in fisheries, tourism) is carrying out a biological assessment
to develop a knowledge base for conservation planning, including analysis
of threats and opportunities to facilitate a conservation strategy and col-
laborative actions aimed at sustainable use and conservation efforts. To
date WVWF has sponsored a workshop to identify threats to the ecoregion
and their root causes and has begun assembling data on physical and bio-
logical parameters. A second workshop will be convened to assess the
results of the assessments to set conservation priorities and propose action
plans.
Tri-national Alliance for the Con-     Coastal, open water,     NGOs, Community            Currently         1996 (on-      TRIGOH seeks to develop integrated conservation and sustainable devel-
servation of the Gulf of Hondu-        island and reef areas    Groups, GOs, resource-   funded with a   going)             opment projects with stakeholders in the region, including a tri-national
ras/TRIGOH Belize (TIDE,               of the Gulf of Hondu-    use cooperatives &         small grant                       system of coastal and marine reserves, tri-national activities in fisheries,
BELPO, BTIA), Guatemala (De-           ras (Belize, Guatemala   associations               (PROARCA)                        manatee protection, ecotourism and other economic alternatives for local
fensores de la Naturaleza,             & Honduras)                                         ;proposed a 2                    resource users and residents, port contingency planining, reSearch and
monitoring. Has proposed a two-year project Integrated Coastal Manage-
FUNDARY, FUNDAECO,                                                                         million proj-                     mentfor the Gulf ofHonduras, with emphasis on cooperative management
IDEADS), Honduras (Fundacion                                                               ect to IDB                        of fisheries, control of water quality, and protection of marine diversity.
Fasquelle. PROLANSATE)



Annex 13
Page 10 of 13
Project/Program Title &              Outreach/Project         National Focal Points/   Funding           Project        Objectives, Components, Activities
Executing Agency                     Area                     Counterparts              Level (US$)    Start/ End
Dates
Project for the Fisheries Develop-   Central America, At-    Belize (Fisheries Dept),   13.4 million     Phase I fi-    Promotes fisheries and aquaculture development under four sub-projects:
ment in Central Amer-                lantic and Pacific       Guatemala                                  nalized in     marine research and monitoring, aquaculture management, shrimp fisher-
ica/PRADEPESCA(European Un-                                   (DITEPESCA), Hondu-                        1995(Phase    ies management, and artisanal fisheries management.
ion)                                                          ras (DIGEPESCA)                            II?)
Plan for Integrated Development of   Gulf of Honduras, (Bi-   GOs, NGOs, Commu-                          Proposal       Contains a series of smaller integrated conservation and development
the Gulf of Honduras (OAS/IICA)      national between         nity Groups of Guate-                      (since 1997)   projects for the lower watershed of the principal rivers draining into the
Guatemala & Hondu-    mala and Honduras                                            Gulf of Honduras in activities of resource conservation in watersheds,
ras)                                                                               protected areas management, sustainable agroforestry, ecotourism, energy
conservation, and integration of transport and port infrastructure with
social development.
Regulation of the Reserve in the     Border region among    GOs of Belize, Guate-                        Proposal       Proposes activities in the following areas: natural resources/biodiversity
Border Region between Belize,        Belize, Guatemala and   mala and Mexico                             (since 1996)   management, scientific investigation, environmental education, recovery
Guatemala and Mexico                 Mexico                                                                             of cultural values, ecotourism and institutional strengthening.
(OAS/IICA)
Program for Management of Wet-       Central America,         GOs, NGOs, Commu-                          1997-2001      Objectives include: (i) identification of priority areas for management; (ii)
lands and Coastal Zones(lUCN)        Caribbean and Pacific   nity Groups                                                organizational strengthening; (iii) organizational networks development
Coasts                                                                             and information exchange; (iv) strategic planning; and (v) support for
implementing intemational conventions.
Conservation of Marine Biodiver-     Central America,         GOs, private-sector                        1997-2001      Objectives include: (i) evaluation of the relation between tourism activi-
sity: Integration of the Tourism     Caribbean and Pacific   tourism operators &                                        ties, including impacts, and coastal-marine ecosystems; (ii) evaluation and
Sector with Coastal Protected Areas   Coasts                  NGOs in participating                                     valorization of local communities' participation in coastal tourism and
(IUCN/BMZ)                                                    countries                                                  conservation of protected areas; (iii) design and implement strategies and
guidelines for the conservation of biological diversity using demonstration
projects that link tourism with the protected areas management and par-
ticipation of local communities. The project seeks to develop networks for
conservation-based tourism, and is also being implemented in East Africa
to facilitate South-South cooperation.
Caribbean Coastal Marine Produc-    Caribbean Sea and         Belize (Fisheries Dept.)   Now primar-    1970s (on-      Network of 20 marine labs, parks and reserves in 18 countries in a pro-
tivity Pro-                          coastal areas of 18                                ily funded by    going)          gram to monitor coastal marine productivity in the Caribbean in man-
gram/CARICOMP(UNESCO and             participating nations                              participating                   groves, seagrass beds, benthic communities on coral reefs, fisheries and in
various British Institutions)                                                           institutions                     aspects of meteorological physical water quality. Has rich database, but
much data has not been recently analyzed.
Caribbean Fisheries Resource As-     Caribbean Region         GO Authorities in         3 million        1999-2007       Conservation & sustainable use of regional fish stocks. Includes institu-
sessment-CFRAMP (CIDA)                                        countries responsible     (Phase I;), &                   tional strengthening, training, research on commercial species, regional
for fisheries manage-     local GO                        information systems, policy reform & technical assistance.
ment                      contributions
Strengthening of Fisheries and       Selected Caribbean       GOs responsible for       5 million        1998-2000       Provides technical & material assistance to researchers& resource manag-
Biodiversity Management in Afri-    countries                  fisheries management    (distributed                      ers for improved management of aquatic living organisms. and increase
can, Caribbean and Pacific Coun-                                                        among 45                         awareness of the importance to conserve biological diversity
tries (European Union)                                                                  countries in
World



Anmex 13
Page I I of 13
Project/Program Title &               Outreach/Project         National Focal Points/   Funding            Project         Objectives, Components, Activities
Executing Agency                      Area                     Counterparts               Level (US$)    Start/ End
Dates
Global Coral Reef Monitoring Net-    Caribbean Region           Caribbean Sub-                             1996 (on-       Links organizations and people to monitor biophysical, social, cultural and
work/GCRMN(AIMS, ICLARM,                                       node(CARICOMP.                              going)          economic aspects of coral reefs within regional networks); improvement
IOC, UNEP, WMO. IUCN,                                          participating NGOs and                                     of capacity of organizations to monitor reefs in a continuous program to
WCMC, URI)                                                      resort operators in                                        discen trends and discriminate between natural, anthropogenic and cli-
MBRS Region, Univ.                                         matic changes; supports dissemination of results at local, regional and
MBRS Re.ion, Univ.                                       global scales to coastal/reef management agencies via reports, website,
of Miami/ RSMAS,                                           databases. Acts as data-manager for updates on coral bleaching, disease,
Univ. of Rhode Is-                                         damage caused by tropical storms, etc. around the World. Organizational
land/CRC, Univ. of                                        and programmatic linkages with ReefBase database networks and Atlantic
Texas, Univ. of Wind-                                      Gulf Reef Assessment1AGRRA and Rapid Assessment of Management
sor)                                                      Parameters (RAMP) monitoring initiative.
Caribbean Planning for Climate        Caribbean (11 coun-      GOs in participating       6.3 million      1997--2001    Provide technical guidance to countries to prepare contingencies for ad-
Change/CPAAC (GEF/OAS)                tries)                    countries responsible     (670,000 to                     verse effects of global climate change and sea level rise. Includes pilot
for coastal resources     each execut-                     projects, training and technology transfer. Has coastal resources inventory
management & moni-    ing agency)                          and coral reef monitoring components.
toring
Establishment of the Meso-            Meso-American Cari-    Mexico                       22.6 million     1999-2004      Supporting actions necessary to consolidate and further develop the Meso-
Americani Regional System of Pro-    bbean                     (SEMARNAP/INE,                                             American Biological Corridor. Includes aspects of: land-use plan-
tected Areas, Buffer Zones and                                  State GO, NGOs), Be-                                      ning/zoning; conservation and sustainable use of biological resources;
Biological Corridors                                           lize (DoE, NGOs),                                          Management of protected areas, buffer zones and corridor connections.
(GEF/UNDP/CCAD/GTZ/DANID                                       Guatemala (CONAP,
A)                                                             OCREN, NGOs), Hon-
duras
(AFE/COHDEFOR,
NGOs)
Regional Promotion of the Envi-       Central America          OGs, NGOs in partici-    15 million         1997 (on-      Promotes intra-regional sustainable development in Central America in
ronment in Central America                                     pating countries           (under nego-    going)          aspects of conservation of biodiversity, depletion of the ozone layer, pro-
(IDBFOMIN/GEF/CCAD)                                                                       tiation addi-                   tection of international waters and climate change.
tional 25
million)



Annex 13
Page 12 of 13
Project/Program Title &              Outreach/Project         National Focal Points/   Funding           Project        Objectives, Components, Activities
Executing Agency                     Area                     Counterparts              Level (US$)    Start/ End
Dates
Caribbean Environment Pro-                                    Mexico                                     1992 (on-      Established to support implementation of the accords set out in the Con-
gramme(lYNEP/RCU)(i) Pro-                                     (SEMARNAP/INE,                             going)         vention for the Protection and Development of the Marine Environment of
gramme for Assessment and Man-                                EPOMEX), Belize                                           the Wider Caribbean (Cartagena Convention) and its protocols(CEPPOL,
agement of Environmental Pollu-                               (CZMA&I), Guatemala                                       SPAW, LBSMP). Programs provide support in areas of diagnostic analy-
agement of Environmental Pollu-  (cZMA&I~~~~~~~~~, Guatemala ~~sis/research of resource conditions in coastal-marine environments (in-
tion/AMEP; (ii) Programme for                                 (CONAMA, INGUAT)                                          cluding pollution detection and monitoring of coral reefs), strategic plan-
Information Systems for the Man-                                                                                        ning and project preparation, assistance in developing environmentally-
agement of Marine and Coastal                                                                                           sound technologies for sewage control, environmentally-sound tourism,
Resources/ CEPNET (1DB/Wider                                                                                            workshops and training. Has broad range of information services, includ-
Caribbean Region Marine and                                                                                             ing an excellent website, publications and best-practices guides. CEN
Coastal Environmental Information                                                                                       Program just concluded. Services seem to be underutilized by 'MBRS
Network);(iii) Regional Programme                                                                                       countries.
on Specially Protected Areas and
Wildlife;(iv) Caribbean Environ-
mental Network/CEN (USAID)
Gulf of Honduras Maritime Trans-    Gulf of Honduras          Belize (CZMA&I),          5 million+       Under          Proposes a transboundary diagnostic analysis of environmental problems
port Pollution Control Project       (Belize, Guatemala,      Guatemala                 (proposed)       preparation    in project area to fill information gaps on key physical and resource use
(GEF/IDB; also potentially WB,       Honduras)                (CONAMA), Honduras                         (GEF Block   issues (including navigation, port facilities, waste management, contin-
UTNDP or UNEP)                                                (SERNA),NGOs                               B)             gencles, etc.); improvement/reform of legal, policy and regula-
tory/enforcement frame-work foT control of maritime pollution (including
(TRIGOH), port and                                        compliance with international conventions); institutional strengthening at
maritime transport in-                                   local, national and regional levels; training and equipment for improving
dustry, DGA-                                              national and transboundary collection of environmental information
SICAICCAD,                                                (bathymetry, currents, sediment transport, WQ monitoring, and vulner-
COCATRAM                                                  ability mapping); public participation and environmental awareness; eco-
nomic mechanisms to encourage control of land- and sea-based pollution;
demonstration pilot projects for the major ports; and a regional action plan
for navigational safety and contingencies.
Assessment of Damage to North        North Coast of Hon-      Fundacion VIDA,            1.13 million    1999-2001      Diagnostic assessment of damages, sediment quantity, and sediment mo-
Coast, Bay Islands Coral Reefs and    duras, Bay Islands,     PROARCA/Costas                                            bilization of coral reefs, and impacts of sediment and wind/wave damage
other Intertidal and Subtidal Sys-   Gulf of Honduras         (others to be deter-                                      to mangrove, seagrass and estuary communities in the Gulf of Honduras
tems (USGS)                                                   mined?)                                                   and Bay Islands. Assessment of accretion and erosion in mouths of rivers
draining into Gulf of Honduras and on Bay Islands. Assessment of struc-
tural damage to shallow reefs due to wave action of Hurricane Mitch,
extent of coral bleaching, black band disease, etc. (objectives to be reas-
sessed in Sept. 1999).
World Meteorological Monitoring      Entire Region            GOs responsible for                        Ongoing        Acts as clearinghouse for collection, analysis and reporting of meteoro-
Program; World Climate Program;                               meteorological moni-                                      logical data taken in all participating countries, including monitoring of
and Ibero-American Regional Cli-                              toring in participating                                   tropical cyclones and monsoons. Also provides technical assistance,
mate Program (WMO)                                            countries                                                  training and some support on instrumentation.
North American Aquatic and At-        Entire Region            GOs responsible for                       Ongoing         Provides assistance and carries our research and monitoring, mapping and
mospheric Administration (NOAA)                               administration of water                    (several        imaging of natural processes and phenomena including: weather/climate;
resources, rivers,                        projects)       oceanography, currents, tides, water quality (physiological/biological) and
oceans and meteoro-                                       temperature; monitoring and tracking of storms (hurricanes, tropical
storms, El Nif, La Nifta, monsoons, drought). Maintains extensive maps,
logical monitoring                                        images and databases.



Annex 13
Page 13 of 13
Project/Program Title &               Outreach/Project        National Focal Points/   Funding           Project         Objectives, Components, Activities
Executing Agency                     Area                     Counterparts               Level (US$)    Start/ End
_Dates
Intergovernmental Oceanographic      Entire Region            GOs responsible fro                        1 982(ongoin   Responsible for the promotion, development and coordination of the
Commission--Subcommission for                                 marine-coastal re-                         g)              IOC's marine scientific research programs, ocean services and related
the Carib-                                                    sources research and                                      activities, including training, education and mutual assistance. Pro-
bean/lOCARIBE(UINESCO)                                        management done in                                         grams/projects include, among othcrs' (i) Regional Component of Ocean
collaboration with                                        Processes and Climate Change; (ii) Fishery Oceanography of Highly Mi-
gratory and Straddling Species; (iii) Tropical Demersal Recriuitment Pro-
NOAA, CARICOMP,                                           gram; (iv) Coral Reef Monitoring and Research, Cooperation with
OAS, CPACC, FAO,                                          AGRRA and CARICOMP; (v) Large Marine Ecosystems-Caribbean; (vi)
UTNEP, GEF, IWC,                                          Ecotourism Research; (vii) Coast Beach Dynamics; (viii) Bathymetric
ITSU, U.S. Hurricane                                      Chart of the Caribbean Sea: (ix) Caribbean Environmental Pollution Proj-
Forecast Center                                           ect-CEPPOL; (x) Cooperation with Contingency Plans for Oil Spills; (xi)
Hurricane Effects & Mitigation on Coastal Zones in the IOCARIBE Re-
gion; (xii) Regional Component for the Global Ocean Observing System-
GOOS; (xiii) Regional Component for the Global Sea Level Observing
System-GLOSS; and (xiv) Caribbean Tsunami Waming System.
Post-Mitch Reconstruction (Various   Honduras, Guatemala    National and local GOs   500 million         1999-           Based on the Consultative Group Meeting in Stockholm in May of 1999,
Bi- and Multi-lateral agencies)                               and NGOs                                   2020(most    numerous project in integrated coastal resources management, watershed
projects still   management, disaster preparedness, land-use planning and zoning, pro-
in planning    tected areas management and environmental damage assessment and
monitoring have been proposed and will be funded by 1DB, World Bank,
stages)        UNDP, UNEP, USAID, CIDA, European Union, Spanish, Dutch, Swed-
ish, Japanese and other Governments, including a Regional Environmental
and Disaster Mitigation Project (IDB).



Annex 14
Page 1 of 12
Instituto de Derecho Ambiental y Desarrollo Sustentable
-IDEADS-
Executive Summary
Diagnosis regarding Harmonization of Legislation, Policies, and
Institutional Coordination
for the Management of the Reef System of the Mesoamerican
Caribbean (SAM)
Consultancy required by World Bank, Contract number 7107830
Regional Consultants
Caroline Amilien
Yuri Giovanni Melini
Alejandra Sobenes
Edmundo E. Vasquez Paz
National Consultants
Julio Rend6n Cano (Honduras)
Candy Gonzalez (Belize)
Jeannette de Noack (Guatemala)
Raquel Gutierrez (Mexico)
Guatemala, March 2000



Annex 14
Page2of 12
Introduction:
This report has as a main purpose to assist in the Coordination of the project with the most
concrete idea regarding the "dimension" that the component "Legislation, Policies, and Regional
Coordination" must have in the execution stage of the project.
This reason is the one that explains the format in which this is submitted, focused to the quick
identification of activities or topics that must be addressed in the execution stage. This ojives
elements to size the amount of work, the topics that must be addressed, and the methodology that
should be used for its treatment.
The report is formed out by four portions, to wit:
1.    Methodology's Description
2.    General Report regarding Findings and Recommended Activities
3.    Conclusion/Recommendations to the PDC design, and
4.    Attachments (as examples in the development of the topics)
Regarding Part 3. "Conclusion/Recommendations to the PDC design", we want to make it clear,
that since the beginning that this is about recommendations to be considered by the project's
components. The other components of the project, taking into account our statements, are the
ones who will make the decision, in the last chance, about the topics and the deepness in which
these must be addressed in the PDC.



Annex 14
Page 3 of 12
1.    MethodologY
Following the methodology used for the collection of basic information regarding Fisheries,
Biodiversity, Water Pollution, Territorial Ordering, and Tourism is submitted and its ruling, poly,
and institutional issues, as well as the methodology that is recommended to be used during the
execution stage of the project.
1.1    Methodology for the collection of basic information
For the basic information collection corresponding to the "Legislation, Policies, and
Institutional Framework" component some Charts were developed to be completed by the
consultants in Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, and Honduras. The Charts' contents are as
follows:
1.     Legislation:
I.A.   Applicable Rules (including relevant overlaps, ruling gaps, contradictions,
accomplishment level, and preliminary recommendations.)
I.B.    Control and  Surveillance  Mechanisms  (including  identification  of
competent entities, powers and faculties of its officials or employees, legal gaps to
accomplish with control and surveillance by the entities in charge and the
preliminary recommendations)
II.    Policies
II.A.   Policy Description (which includes the identification of existing policies,
gaps, and preliminary recommendations)
II.B.   Policies Effectiveness (appreciation regarding the concordance level
among policies and applicable ruling, appreciation regarding the accomplishment
of the policy, preliminary recommendations to coordinate the policies with
legislation, policies among them and to improve the policies implementation.
Ill.   Institutional Framework:
III.A.   Competent Entities Description   (which  includes legal mandates,
mandate's gaps, and preliminary recommendations)
III.B    Accomplishment level of the Mandate  (which includes appreciation
regarding the accomplishment level of the mandate and preliminary
recommendations)



Annex 14
Page4of 12
III.C.   Relationships among institutions and people (which includes mechanisms
for existing coordination among institutions as well as collaboration aiid
coordination mechanisms with similar entities in the neighbor countries, legal gazs
identification for the public participation, identification of institutional overlapping
occurrences, preliminary recommendations.
The reason to collect this information was double-intended: 1. To constitute a complete aid
ordered database in the issues that are of interest of the component, so during the execution stage
of the project, to be used as a base and reference for the in-depth analysis of what it must 1)e
carried out to give accurate recommendations (products of the execution stage) and 2. To COl nt
on a very detailed an ample view of the status of the ruling issues, policies, and institutional, 3s
well as the consistent criteria for the "dialog" which must be developed during the execution stage
with the other components to prioritize and decide which topics, rules, policies, and whiJh
institutions must be subject of an accurate treatment.  This information is included as an
attachment named "National Reports".
1.2    Methodolocy to be used during the execution stage of the proiect
Within the methodological issue, it is very important to highlight two basic principles t at
are fairly good for them to address the work procedure of this component in the execution
stage of the project. (With this statement we assume IDEADS as this componEnt
executor).
The first one is to understand that IDEADS's work and its consultants will be instrumental
and complemented regarding the criteria and priorities that arose from the components. In
other words, no matter the institute counts on a good database regarding the issues t[at
are under its competence (rules, policies, and institutional framework in Mexico, Belize,
Guatemala, and Honduras, referred to the topics of Fisheries, Biodiversity, Water Pollutic n,
Territory Ordering, and Tourism) and will create a basic work proposal. The other
components must be the ones to make the decision, in its case and definitely, which rules,
policies, and institutions to be accurately treated. The institute will contribute in the
decision making by submitting its own criteria and arguments.
In this way, in the core of Workgroup number 1, the workshop carried out in Belize City,
some general instructions were built, that it is recommended for the "Legislation, Policies,
and Institutional Framework" component to follow them, to wit:
a.     The General Purpose of the work in Legislation and Policies must be "tile
legislation and policies corresponding to the topics fields for them to be determined
as harmonic and compatible at the referenced region's level;
b.     For the harmonization and compatibility, prioritization must be given to rules and
policies to be available to the users (lower hierarchy and the most specific ones)
c.     For the harmonization and compatibility, prioritization must be given to rules and
policies that are related to the people that most directly affected or are nearer to
the topics to be treated. Second, the ones that are related to the people that
indirectly affect or are far away from them must be searched;



Annex 14
Page 5 of 12
d.    As a criterion to choose in which policies and laws is better to work on, it is
convenient to prioritize the ones that are less conflictive and that promises a higher
hope of policy feasibility (policy will) and the social and economic feasibility;
e.    For the field work of the regional coordination, it is convenient not to think in the
creation of new institutions but in the strengthening of what already exists
(example TRIGOH) and in the terms of reference and instances of the "regional
coordination";
f.    As a methodological tip, it is important that the legislation and policies
harmonization work to be done for the priority of the highlighted topics by the
components from priority listings of items or minimum requirements explained by
themselves as well as the basic standards given with technical, scientific,
economic, and social support;
9.    It is convenient to initiate the rules and policies harmonization from "generating"
topics or activities (that are in critic paths of the processes or flows which
correspond to the prioritized topics.)
Due the abovementioned instructions were created as a product of experts in some of the topics
that correspond to the other components and that are supported not only in their experience but
also in the expectations they have of the project, we think that it is convenient to assume them as
basic directions for the way in which to proceed in the work of this component in the execution
stage of the project.
The second basic principle that will follow up with the work of this component in the execution
stage of the project is the one of respect to the exercise of sovereiqntY of each of the involved
countries. In practical terms, this means that these are the competent instances in each of the
countries that must make the decision regarding the way and the meaning of the rules, policies,
and administrative structures that must be introduced, modified, etc. For this reason, IDEADS will
structure its final products corresponding to the execution stage of the project such as
recommendations listinqs or requirements that must accomplish rules, policies, and national
institutions that may be mentioned.
In this matter, it is important to point out that the project must foresee what is going to happen with
the products that IDEADS submits in the execution stage: to which authority the project must
submit and what type of follow up is going to be given to guarantee their effective adoption.
A very developed example is presented in the attachments in the way in which IDEADS will
elaborate its basic criterion of intervening for the second stage. This will be the document that will
be useful for the discussion and dialogue with the other components to determine the issues that
must be treated in an accurate way during the execution stage of the project.
In the case of each prioritized topic (rules, policies, and specific institutional frameworks) as
intervening subject by the "Legislation, Policies, and Institutional Framework" component, IDEADS
will review and analyze the current status of each one of the countries and to generate a
requirements listing that must be met in each one of them (in the way they are displayed in the
Attachment).



Annex 14
Page 6of 12
2.     General Report regarding the Findings and Recommended Actions
Following there is a Chart in which the main categories of possible intervention appear for the
"Legislation, Policies, and Institutional Framework" component in the execution stage of the project,
the corresponding sub topics, and activities that are recommended to be carried out during the
execution stage of the project. This is a synthesis. A more detailed issue not only of the Findiigs
but also of the recommendations that appear in the Attachment, sorted in the following topics:
Fisheries, Biodiversity, Water Pollution, Territory Sorting, and Tourism.



Annex 14
Page 7 of 12
Topic and General Findings                      Required activities in the execution stage of the project and
(Intervention Categories)                                           observations
1. Legal Framework
a)    a ruling fault is verified (ruling gaps)                 From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
and minimum requirements given by the same, the laws that must be
created will be identified. Accurate recommendations listings for each
country will be generated in such way that the ruling elaboration to be in
the exercise of sovereignty of each one of them.
b)    insufficient quality in the ruling is verified (i. e. Duplicity of From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
competence, jurisdiction overlapping, non-adequate hierarchies, and minimum requirements given by the same, the deficient laws will be
lack of suitability).                                   identified, as well as the deficiencies themselves.  The accurate
recommendations listings will be created for each country, so the ruling
creation to be in the exercise of sovereignty of each one of them.
c)    lack of regional harmonization of the ruling regimes is verified, as From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
well as the technical criteria and technical standards that must be and minimum requirements given by the same, laws and rules that must
used as the foundation.                                 be harmonized will be identified. Accurate recommendations listings will
be generated for each country in such way that the ruling creation will be
in the exercise of sovereignty of each one of them.



Annex 14
Page 8 of 12
Topic and General Findings                       Required activities in the execution stage of the project and
(Intervention Categories)                                             observations
Policies Framework
a)    lack of explicit sector policies is verified (topics) at a national level From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
(topic policies gaps)                                    and  minimum   requirements  given  by  the  same,  accurate
recommendations listings will be identified for each country in some way
that the ruling generation will be in the exercise of the sovereignty of each
one of them.
b)    lack of accurate institutional policies at a national level is verified From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
(institutional policies gaps)                            and minimum requirements given by the same, institutional policies gaps
must be identified. Accurate recommendations listings will be generated
for each country in some way that the ruling generation to be in the
exercise of the sovereignty of each one of them.
c)    the existence of sector policies is verified (topics) at a national From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
level, not regionally harmonized                         and minimum requirements given by the same, existent and accurate
sector  policies  that  require  regional  harmonization.  Accurate
recommendations listings will be generated for each country in some way
that the ruling generation to be in the exercise of the sovereignty of each
one of them.
d)    the existence of explicit institutional policies is verified at a From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
national level, not harmonized with the other institutional national and minimum  requirements given by the same, explicit institutional
policies and not harmonized with the counterparts or equivalent, policies will be identified that are not harmonized among them nor with
at a regional level                                      the counterparts at a regional level. Accurate recommendations listings
will be generated for each country in some way that the ruling generation
to be in the exercise of the sovereignty of each one of them.



Annex 14
Page 9 of 12
Topic and General Findings                       Required activities in the execution stage of the project and
(Intervention Categories)                                            observations
111.   Institutional Framework
a)    responsible  institutions  with  the  inadequate  or deficient From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
competencies is verified (including that its officials do not count and minimum requirements given by the same, the differences in the
on their necessary powers) or lack of competent institutions  existent institutions  competencies  will be  verified,    Accurate
recommendations listings will be generated for each country in some way
that the ruling generation to be in the exercise of the sovereignty of each
one of them.
b)    the presence of responsible or competent institutions with From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
institutional overlapping (institutional gaps)           and minimum requirements given by the same, the main competence
overlappings will be identified. Accurate recommendations listings will be
generated for each country in some way that the ruling generation to be
in the exercise of the sovereignty of each one of them.
c)    the existence of institutions with insufficient installed capacity to From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
carry out their terms of reference and responsibilities  and minimum requirements given by the same, the main deficiencies in
the installed capacity of the responsible institutions and will be submifted
to the decision of the other components for them to discuss and create
recommendations. Accurate recommendations listings will be generated
for each country in some way that the ruling generation to be in the
exercise of the sovereignty of each one of them.
d)    lack of coordination among counterparts at a regional level is From the priorities expressed by the other components and the criteria
verified                                                        and minimum  requirements given by the same, existent regional
coordination gaps will be identified. Accurate recommendations listings
will be generated for each country in some way that the ruling generation
to be in the exercise of the sovereignty of each one of them.



Annex 14
Page lOof 12
Following a listing of the activities that will be identified in the core of Group number 1, Belize City
Workshop, and that give a very interesting key to assume the dimension that the component work
must have during the execution stage of the project (the activities are written in agreement to the
terms of the way the work of the "Legislation, Policies, and Institutional Framework" component
must be.)
1.   Fisheries
A.   Proposal for the conforming of the inter- ministries group, of the fisheries authorities, at a
regional level.
B.   Proposal for the requirements for the adoption of rules/technical standards for the
sustainable management of the fishery resources exploitable and harmonized in the 4
countries, most of all in:
1.    Close season period
2.    Fishing gears
3.    Species Size
4.     Control and surveillance mechanisms
2.    Biodiversity Manaaement
A.    Requirements proposal for the adoption of regionally harmonic national rules for the
effective application and fulfillment of international agreements such as:
-     CITES
-     CDB
-     Convenio Interamericano para la Proteccion de la Tortuga Marina [Inter American
Covenant for the Sea Turtle Protection]
-     RAMSAR
-     Protocolo de Cartagena - SPAW
B.    Mechanism proposal of Inter-Institutional coordination at a regional level for a better
application of the previous international agreements.
C.    Requirements proposal ruling to guarantee better actions for the protection of endangered
species (i. e. Manatee, Turtle, Dolphin), bioprospecting management and development of
the Protected Areas of the Regional System.
3.    Water Pollution
A.    Requirements proposal for the adoption of rules for discharging from sea sources to be
harmonized in the 4 countries.
B.    Requirements proposal for the adoption in the national ruling of the commitments acquired
in MARPOL and the other related covenants.



Annex 14
Page II of 12
C.    Minimum requirements proposal for the creation of sea authorities in charge of the
appliance of MARPOL and the other related covenants.
4.    Territorial Ordering
A.    Requirements proposal for the adoption of the ruling for the space zoning and
activities ordering in an harmonic way in the 4 countries for:
-     Tourism
-     Industry
-     Agriculture
-     Human Settlements
-     Fishery
-     Other
B.    Requirements proposal for the adoption of an harmonic ruling in the 4 countries
regarding the urban planning in the cities of the region.
C.    Proposal for the harmonization of policies for the urban development of the region
5.    Tourism
A.    General proposal of general purposes and basic principles to be adopted in the
national policies regarding Tourism, to obtain regional harmonization.  In a
particular term: to view the charge capacity, ecotourism promotion, subscription to
SAM to the Mayan Route (?).
B.    Requirements proposal to be adopted in the national ruling, related to policies
instruments, such as: allowances, voluntary rules subject to certification, taxes,
etc.
3.     Conclusion and Recommendations to the PDC Design
3.1.   Conclusion
Since at the moment it is not possible to precise which rules, which policies, and
particularly which institutions must be treated during the execution stage of the project,
definitively because this must come from the other components, it is possible to
acknowledge some minimum elements that can give a "sizing" of the Component to the
execution stage of the project.
The first of them is about the possible topics (rules, policies, and institutions) that must be
treated as a minimum. It may be preliminary considered that, as a minimum it is imperative
to work in the topics/activities proposed during the Workshop in Belize City (product of
group number 1) and that are displayed in Clause 2. Additionally to this listing, the
activities that appear in the Attachments can be added.
It is also evident that for the development of the different topics to be chosen, IDEADS
must carry out the work in all the categories mentioned in clause 2 (appointing this will not



Annex 14
Page 12 of 12
always be the same). It is important to keep this in mind because this gives a very
important situation to have an idea regarding the intensities of work which are necess3ry
and the adjacent activities that must be carried out (mainly national and regional meetings;
as well as the need to count on a main consultant, in charge of the coordination and final
generation of the proposals, as well as national consultants.
Taking into account that this is about 5 great topics (Fisheries, Biodiversity, Water
Pollution, Territory Ordering, and Tourism), 4 countries (Mexico, Belize, Honduras, and
Guatemala) and a total of 11 different categories for the development of the 3 topics:
policies, legislation, and institutional framework, it is evident that this will be a whole w de
bunch of interventions: assuming that, as a minimum, one participation must be necessary
for each topic (5); by country (4), and by category (11), only this will take us to a minimiim
sum (theoretical) of 5x4x1 1=20 participations...
3.2    Recommendations to the proiect's design
Considering what is referred in the Conclusion (clause 3.1) as well as what concerns to lhe
methodology to be used in the execution stage of this component, we think that whal is
much reasonable is to have the idea of the "Legislation, Policies, and Institutional
Framework" component as a permanent counseling team of the project during a particular
number of years.
Contractually, this team (formed out under the leadership of IDEADS, counting on a main
consultant and national support consultants in each one of the countries) could be defined
to solve, as a minimum, the activities listing adjusted by Group No. 1 of the Workshop in
Belize City as well as other elements of this same nature and type to be chosen in the
development of the project. Enough funds must be assigned for the development of its job
(consultants fees, trips, and work meetings, as well as for secretarial support, etc.)
We recommend an initial full time formula and after a partial time one.
Mainly, we recommend the following formula:
2 years of full time basis for the general support stage to the other components of the Project,
which means the development of mechanisms of regional coordination.
3 years of partial time basis for the implementation of concrete actions of harmonization and
standardization in specific cases (i. e. close season periods, fishing gears, etc.).
Marea Eleni Hatziolos
LANotebook7-24-OO\documents\MBRS\Final Reports\Legal Analysis\Executive Summary- English- IDEADS Final Report.doc
April 30, 2001 12:26 PM



Annex 15
Page 1 of 5
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 15
A. STAP Reviewer's Comments
Review of the Draft GEF Project Appraisal Document for the Conservation and Sustainable Use
of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
The project is important, ambitious, very necessary and subject to external risks arising outside the
immediate scope and control of the project design or operations.
Revisions to the project design in the past year have clarified the context in respect of other activities
in the area. They have also addressed issues of communication and coordination particularly in the
context of the workshop convened in June 1999 at the request of CCAD to draft an Action Pan for the
MBRS.
I consider that there is evidence of high level commitment to coordination within and beyond the im-
mediate components of the project and that this commitment should reduce the external risk to an ac-
ceptable level.
A project of this nature is essential to attempts to secure the future maintenance and wellbeing of the
reefs and associated ecosystems of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef Region. The work done to develop
the project to this stage has involved substantial development of trust and recognition of transboundary
issues which have to be addressed collaboratively.
I consider that it is important that the project proceed because it is important to maintain momentum to
build on the basis of shared recognition of problems and acceptance of the need to find solutions.
Comments on project specifics are provided separately below.
RA Kenchington
7 June 2000



Annex 15
Page 2 of 5
Review - Project Specifics
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS)
Key issues
Scientific and technical soundness of the project
The project is scientifically and technically sound.
Identification of the global environmental benefits and/or drawbacks of the project
The project has immense global environmental benefits. The MBRS is an important but en-
dangered ecosystem which is likely to deteriorate seriously over coming decades if measures such as
those contained in the proposal are not put in place.
How the project fits within the context of the goals of GEF, as well as its operational strategies, pro-
gramme priorities, GEF Council guidance and the provisions of the relevant conventions
The project fits clearly within the biodiversity and oceans goals of the GEF. It is a priorily
area and has strong links with CBD, CITES and LOS.
Regional context
This is a regional project with highest level support of the participating countries Belize, Hon-
duras, Guatemala and Mexico. The MBRS is a system of global importance and is a significant part of
the heritage, biodiversity and natural resource base of coastal communities of Mesoamerica.
Replicability of the project (added value for the global environment beyond the project itself)
The project is an example of the approach being fostered by the International Coral Reef Ini-
tiative of addressing the conservation and sustainable use of coral reefs and related ecosystems al: the
regional scale. Success in this project will provide important working examples for the global cornmu-
nity.
Sustainability of the project
The aim of the project is to build a sustainable basis for conservation and resource use. There
is highest level commitment of the governments. The project has elements of risk in that it will involve
the development and implementation of sustainable multisectoral management at the local, natio,rial
and regional level. The design recognizes and seeks to address that risk through a number of commu-
nity, consultative and educational measures.
In the case of targeted research projects, it will be necessary to address the issue of the extent to
which the project will contribute to the improved definition and implementation of GEF's strategies
andpolicies, thus paving the wayfor more effective international, technical cooperation, assistance
and investment projects.
The project as a whole addresses fundamental issues in definition and implementation of GEF
strategies and the achievement of international goals for conservation and sustainable resource use at
the ecosystem and political regional scale. The risk has been mentioned above. The long term viability



Annex 15
Page 3 of 5
of the strategies will depend on achieving success stories which can demonstrate the benefits and so
reduce the risk of failure or disinclination to address sustainability.
Secondary issues
Linkages to other focal areas
L inkages to other programmes and action plans at regional or sub-regional levels
The project has a large number of linkages to national, aid funded and NGO programs in all
four countries. These are detailed in Annex 13 (Threat and Root Cause Analysis) Matrix 3.
Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects
The project if successful will lead to an understanding and acceptance in the local and national
financial communities of the high social and economic costs of environmental failure and of attempts
to restore damaged environments. If this is the case there should be increased resistance to attempts to
pursue developmernts which promise short term bounty but do not address and fully integrate the short,
medium and long term social and environmental costs.
Degree of involvement of stakeholders in the project
The development of the project design has involved extensive work with stakeholders in the
community, professional agencies and governments of the four countries. The design includes a num-
ber of mechanisms intended to maintain and further develop this approach.
Capacity-building aspects
This is directly addressed in the project design with a sound range of training targets for staff
involved as well as training trainers, community educators and teachers to provide the basis for ongo-
ing capacity building.
Innovativeness of the proiect
The project is ambitious and innovative in that it is dealing at the ecosystem scale with a
shared natural heritage and resource base in a situation with four regional governments of nations at
differing stages of economic development.
Specifkc Comnents on MBRS PAD
B. Strategic Contert - key performance indicators
I suggest that something be added to promote public recognition also of the importance of the funda-
mental but vulnerable natural economic resource for the people of the region
Component 2. Regional EHS
A related point but if the EIS is to address the processes which influence reef integrity it should clearly
be seen to comprehend information on levels of use, opportunities and social and economic benefits
from uses. If the EIS doesn't itself have such information it will need guaranteed access links to get it.
The concern is to ensure that the MBRS is seen as a core part of social and economic life and not as a
quasi cultural or aesthetic property which is the concern of science and foreign environmentalists.



Annex 15
Page 4 of 5
Other comments
P 14. Benefits and target population third dot point. It is important to address the local population,
currently dependent etc but as things develop it will also be important to look at the larger scales of
national and regional costs and benefits. -The locals are unlikely to get into high-volume low-impact
tourism, indeed they may be disadvantaged or displaced by it but the overall benefits at the national
level and in terms of foreign earnings and at the national and international level in terms of conser-va-
tion outcomes. The trick is to ensure that the interests or stake of the locals are taken into account in
the overall cost benefit of any changed usage pattern.
P 15. reference to other projects - Be sure to coordinate with UNEP and other partners in the ident ifi-
cation of demonstration sites to be supported under the Caribbean regional program of the Interna-
tional Coral Reef Network (ICRAN)'s Strategic Framework. There are clear opportunities for synergy
between the two projects here in terms of MPA management training, monitoring and information ex-
change.
P 17 Indications of borrower commitment, para 3. The signatory status of the countries with respect to
IMO conventions would be clearer in a table where all could see. This may generate some valuable
peer pressure on those project participant countries which have not yet ratified the treaties.
P 21 Sustainability. Para 1 Could usefully reflect the usefulness of transboundary economic analy;,is
and regional solidarity where the countries trade with the same buyers (e.g., cruise ship operators) and
may be tempted or induced into trading environmental compliance standards for short term econo mic
retums.
Matrix 3 (Current and Planned Regional Projects/Programs Relevant to the MBRS
I found this very helpful. It certainly indicates the complexity and the scope of coordination.
Matrix 2 (Main Transboundary Threats and Actions Proposed)
Cruise shipping may also be worth mentioning as a transboundary threat. The experience of the last 2
years has shown us that the companies have yet to demonstrate that they can set and maintain accept-
able environmental standards. Indeed it seems to be "smart business" to pressure to achieve exemp-
tions from environmental standards and charges! That may not play well in Miami but given courl
cases in New York we should pressure them to meet standards or ship out!
Information Deficiencies and Gaps Affecting the Threat and Root Cause Analysis
Ecological. In addition to the Reef check etc there is a case for monitoring recruitments of fish and
corals which are highly variable from year to year and are probably an important factor in resilien ze.
Tourism. Also useful to monitor levels of visitor expectation, visitor satisfaction and the direct im :acts
of tourism.
RA Kenchington
7 June 2000



Annex 15
Page 5 of 5
B. Response to the STAP Reviewer's Comments
The project team has reviewed the STAP reviewer's comments and found them to be very supportive
of the project overall. Suggested revisions to the design of specific activities and project performance
indicators will be incorporated during the final stages of project preparation into the final project
document. This will be part of a larger effort to sharpen the expected project outcomes in terms of per-
formance benchmarks and indicators of progress toward achieving objectives on the ground. Based on
these results, not only will project success be measured, but the replicability of specific outcomes de-
termined for scaling up within and outside the region.
Response to Specific Comments:
1. Regional EIS (Component 2) and Stakeholder Benefits. The final design of the EIS will be devel-
oped by the regional technical working groups in a series of workshops, facilitated by technical spe-
cialists in Coral Reef EIS. There is now a large body of literature on the types of monitoring and in-
formation indicators that need to be included in EIS, to assess socio-economic aspects relating to the
sustainability of Coral Reef Ecosystems. These are directly related to the earlier point of ensuring that
the public is aware of the economic importance and benefits derived from the MBRS, as well as the
impacts that use activities may have on the viability of the system. These types of indicators will be
discussed in the regional workshops to develop the data sets that will be included in the MBRS Re-
gional Monitoring and Information System. The overall intent is to develop a user-friendly informa-
tion system that is of use not only to scientists, but to inform decision-making and create a solid con-
stituency in support of measure to conserve an outstanding marine resource.
2. Coordination with ICRAN. There is an ongoing exchange of information between the MBRS Proj-
ect Team and the partners (e.g., UNEP, WCMC, UNF) developing the International Coral Reef Action
Framework (ICRAN). A review of the draft ICRAN Strategic Framework by the TTL indicated where
synergies may exist between the MBRS project and the proposed Caribbean Regional Program of
ICRAN. These include the selection of demonstration sites in the Western Caribbean, MPA manage-
ment training, monitoring and information dissemination. This dialogue will continue through the
Bank's active partnership in ICRI (International Coral Reef Initiative) and ongoing exchanges at the
technical level on activities under its sponsorship.
3. References to Cruise Shipping and the need to adopt uniform standards in the region related to
Port State Control, waste management, waste reception are other commitments under MARPOL may
be taken up on an issue by issue basis through the Policy Working Group, as well as the Sustainable
Tourism Working Group, through dissemination of codes of conduct and design of a regional envi-
ronmental certification scheme for sustainable tourism enterprises. However, it is likely that many of
these issues will be more readily addressed under a complementary regional initiative to control Mari-
time and Marine Pollution in the Gulf of Honduras, by the IDB with assistance from the GEF.
4. Monitoring Tourism Impacts could be integrated into activities under the Sustainable Use Compo-
nent related to carrying capacity assessments for tourism and criteria for the design of environmental
certification programs in this sector.



Annex 16
Page 1 of 6
Central America Commission on Environment and Development
Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System
Annex 16
Process Framework For Mitigating Potential Livelihood Impacts Associated With
Strengthening Of Marine Protected Areas
MBRS Summary. The Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System (MBRS) Project seeks
to protect coral reefs and related coastal ecosystems in the region by promoting their con-
servation and sustainable use. It is a regional project that unites and strengthens efforl s in
four countries bordering the world's second longest barrier reef (Mexico, Guatemala,
Honduras and Belize). The principal activities of the MBRS Project will include the:
strengthening marine protected areas (MPAs), development of a regional environmental
information system, promotion of measures to reduce non sustainable practices and adlop-
tion of alternative livelihoods in the fishing and tourist industries, environmental educa-
tion, and regional harmonization of coastal and marine resources management through the
coordination of national policies, institutional strengthening, and training. A key aspect of
project preparation has been substantial consultation with stakeholders. A Social Assess-
ment and Participation Plan, which includes activities to ensure active involvement of and
benefits to Indigenous People in the Project area, has been developed (Annex 12 of the
PAD).
2.    Marine Prot_cted Areas (MPAs). The MBRS has over 60 Coastal and Marine Protezted
Areas but many exist only on paper, with little or no on-site management. The Project will help
consolidate a regional system of 15 MPAs, selected on the basis of their significance in relation to
MBRS ecosystem characteristics, biological diversity and ecological processes, and their vulner-
ability relative to development impacts. Hotspots threatening the MBRS were identified during
Project preparation as being in the two transboundary areas (e.g., near the Bay of Chetumal tc the
north, and the tri-national boundary area in the Gulf of Honduras to the south).
3.    The Project will assist this network of MPAs through (i) upgrading existing operationa I
plans (11 MPAs) or drafting new master management plans where none exist (4 MPAs); (ii) cs-
tablishment of data baselines and monitoring programs to assess MPA effectiveness (15 MPA s);
(iii) provision of basic equipment, construction of guard houses and small visitor centers in 5
transboundary MPAs; and (iv) cross border cooperation in policy, protection and managemen: of
transboundary MPAs. Table 1 identifies the 15 MPAs to be assisted under the Project, and th
type of support to be provided. A map of these areas is attached as an Annex to the PAD.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 6
Marine and Coastal Protected Areas to be Support through the MBRS MPA Component
Protected Area        Predominant Ecosystems   Legal       Status of Planning Support to be Provided
Status
1   Banco Chinchorro       Seagrass, reef, cays      Existing   Management plan  OP, modest management
2    Santuario del Manati   Mangroves and seagrass    Existing   Management plan  OP, modest management
3    Corozal Bay*          Mangroves and seagrass     Existing   No plan           MP/OP, modest management
4    Xcalak-Bacalar Chico'  Seagrass, mangrove, reef    Proposed  Plan being pre-    Expand MP,OP, major management
pared3
5    Bacalar Chico'        Seagrass, mangrove, reef    Existing   Management plan  OP, major management
6    South Water Caye      Seagrass, mangrove, reef    Existing   Management plan  OP, modest management
7    Glover's Reef         Cays, reef, seagrass      Existing   Management plan  OP, modest management
8    Port Honduras         Cays, reef, seagrass      Existing   Plan being prepared OP, modest management
9    Gladden Spit*         Reef (spawning aggregations) Existing   No plan         MP/OP, modest management
10   Sapodilla Cays        Reef, cays, seagrass      Existing   Management plan  OP, modest management
11   Sarstoon-Temash*2     Mangroves and estuaries   Existing   No plan           MP/OP, major management
12   Sarstfn 2             Mangroves and estuaries   Proposed  Plan being prepared OP, major management
13   Punta de Manabique    Swamp forest, mangrove    Proposed  Plan being prepared OP, modest management
14   Omoa-Baracoa*         Coastal wetlands, mangroves, Proposed  No plan         MP/OP, modest management
swamp forests
15   Jtila/Turtle Harbor   Swamp forest, reefs, seagrass, Existing   Plan nearly fin-    Expand MP/OP, major management
____________________ .lagoons                   I     _    ished4
I Consists of one of the two MPAs forming the MPA complex in the Bahia de Chetumal.
2 Consists of one of the two MPAs forming the MPA complex in the Golfo de Honduras.
3 Plan does not include the Bacalar Chico portion of the MPA.
4 Plan only covers Turtle Harbor.
* indicates MPAs to receive new Master Management Plans
major vs modest management refers to equipment package and infrastructure that will be provided



Annex 16
Page 3 of 6
4.    No Physical Displacement. To effectively implement the MBRS Project and its com-
ponent on Marine Protected Areas, no involuntaryphysical displacement or relocation of
people would be required, and none will take place as a part of this Project. This is consi stent
with recent Government practice in all four countries and in some (e.g., Guatemala) it is even
prohibited by law. The multiple-use nature of most MPAs in the MBRS, which allows for
strict no-take reserves within a core area, surrounded by zones of increasing levels of use, also
minimizes the likelihood of significant economic displacement.
5.    Potential Impacts on Livelihoods. Nonetheless, the possibility remains that sonme
Project activities related to the strengthening of Marine Protected Areas, as in those cases
where Management Plans currently do not exist or zoning has not been enforced, might affect
the livelihoods of certain groups living within or adjacent to these sites, through new restric-
tions on their access. This Process Framework outlines the criteria and procedures which the
MBRS Project will follow in such cases, to ensure that eligible, affected persons are assisted
in their efforts to restore or improve their livelihoods in a manner which maintains the envi-
ronmental sustainability and territorial integrity of the relevant protected areas. These criteria
and procedures will be detailed in the Management Plans, existing or to be developed for
these sites and closely linked to the Project's sub-component on Alternative Livelihoods.
which aims to reduce environmental and social irnpacts through support for alternative in-
come generating activities (e.g., linked to recreational fishing, diving, tourism and MPA nan-
agement) In all cases where traditional resource users are affected by new restrictions in ac-
cess or use associated with the Project, the MBRS Project would seek to address the liveli-
hood issues of these persons in a manner which is transparent, just, and in accordance wilh the
law in all four countries, as well as consistent with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies on
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), and Natural Habitat: (OP
4.04).
6.   In the preparation of management plans (i.e., updating operational plans or drafting
new Master Plans), the following actions relevant to the livelihood concerns of residents r
neighbors of MPAs will be carried out. For any given protected area, those steps below that
have already been adequately completed in the past (as in the case of akeady established
MPAs), would not be repeated, but updated as needed.
Evaluationi of Each MPA
7.    (i)   A rapid evaluation of basic ecological and socioeconomic factors and conditions in and
surrounding MPAs, including legal and policy analyses and land tenure issues, will be t.nder-
taken in the context of Marine Protected Area Management planning. In these evaluations, re-
sources used by local populations (type of use, frequency of use, destination) and the cujltural
and socio-economic characteristics of the users as well as their level of economic dependency,
will be identified and assessed.
(ii)    An assessment of the need to restrict access to previous users of MPA sites the types of uses
allowed (e.g., through restrictions in fishing gear, location, type and size of species har-
vested) will be carried out along with an analysis of eligibility of these users for economic
mitigation assistance under the Bank's OD 4.30.



Annex 16
Page 4 of 6
Consultation and Participation
8.    Project preparation has benefited from a consultative process involving the input of
stakeholders at all levels. A social assessment focusing on local community inputs and pro-
filing was also carried out (see Annex 12 of the PAD). The social assessment methodology
included field visits, surveys and open-ended interviews with representatives from all key
ethnic and indigenous groups in the four participating countries. Focus groups and discus-
sions with local experts were held to determine the main issues that were of concern to local
communities with regard to conservation and use of MBRS resources, and how best to ensure
their participation in project benefits and decision-making in areas directly affecting them.
9.    All four countries currently have laws requiring consultation with local stakeholders
prior to the establishment of protected areas and boundary demarcation. The development of
management plans must also be done in consultation with local populations and interested
parties. Good practice in MPA mnanagement planning and implementation encourages the
participation of civil society through the formation of a local advisory committee or multi-
stakeholder group to ensure that all legitimate interests are represented.
(iii)         Local advisory councils, consisting of key stakeholders (such as parties affected by
economic displacement due to MPA existence) in and around MPA sites will be es-
tablished. These stakeholder groups will be consulted on the develop of MPA man-
agement plans, involved in decision-making and invited to take part in monitoring of
these plans. T he local councils could also serve as fora for resolution of conflicts re-
lated to MPA social issues. The analyses carried out in the steps above would be done
with the active participation of local communities through the local advisory councils
or other representative groups.
Identification of Mitigation Measures.
10.  In those cases where new restrictions on the use of resources in MPA sites (e.g., in the case of
MPAs without current zoning or Management Plans, such as in Corozol Bay, Gladden Spit, Sarstoon-
Temash, Omoa Baracoa) result in significant economic displacement of legitimate resource users,
mitigation measures to help offset this economic loss will be supported under the project. Assessment
of the eligibility of affected groups and the kinds of mitigation measures to be provided will be con-
ducted with the participation of local people.
11.   Mitigation measures under the MBRSP will by linked to the Project's Sustainable Use
Component and will focus primarily on assistance in the development of alternative liveli-
hoods that would improve the economic condition of affected people. These include training
in sustainable livelihood activities such as sport-fishing, kayaking, fly-fishing and recreational
diving. For a reasonable post-training transition period, trainees will be provided with the
necessary equipment to become immediately involved in income-generating activities using
the newly acquired skills. For each livelihood scheme considered, the cultural, social and
economical feasibility of the activities to be carried out under the Project will be assessed to
determine their appropriateness and how best to integrate such mitigation measures into the
management plans for the MPA site



Annex 16
Page 5 of 6
12.   Other mitigation measures in the context of community development, identified in the
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (see PAD Annex 12, Social Assessment), may also be
appropriate. These include: a social communications campaign to educate people about the
MBRS and its ecological, social and economic value, a local institutional development plan, a
regulatory framework for the economic development of indigenous and ethnic groups, gender
specific training in small and medium enterprise, technical groups and fora to discuss lanc
tenure issues and other conflicts which are not necessarily related to MPAs but to resource use
within the MBRS
Incorporation of Alternative Livelihood Schemes
13.     For each livelihood system selected, a program will be designed which shall be in-
tegrated into the Management Plan for the MPA site in question. In the case of Indigenous
People, such assistance will be part of the "Indigenous People's Development Plan" of the
Social Assessment (Annex 12 of the PAD). Management plan preparation associated with
each MPA will be carried out in consultation with surrounding communities and stakeholders,
through the protected area advisory councils to be set up for each MPA.
14.     New restrictions or limitations concerning natural resource use within Marine Pro-
tected Areas will only be enforced after economic mitigation measures are in place.
Financing of Alternative Livelihood and Other Economic Mitigation Measures
15.     Assistance in the development of alternative livelihoods for economically displaced
individuals will be financed through the budget of Part C of the project. Other mitigation
measures, such as those identified in the Participation Plan and Indigenous Peoples Develop-
ment Plan have been budgeted for and integrated into other project components.
Preparation and Implementation Responsibilities.
16.     Preparation of Protected Area Master Management Plans in newly established or
proposed MPAs and related Operational Plans in all Project MPAs will serve as the mecha-
nism for this Process Framework in these areas. Implementation of the Management Plan and
Operational Plan will be the responsibility of government and those institutions (both public
and private), authorized to manage the Protected Areas in question. The MBRS Project staff
will facilitate and monitor progress toward management plan implementation. Certain MPA
management tasks (e.g., management plan preparation and training in alternative livelihood
activities) may be contracted out by the National Authorities to qualified organizations. The
sociologist of the Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for the coordination of all the
activities necessary to ensure participation by indigenous and ethnic communities in the im-
plementation of the Alternative Livelihood Programs.
14.     Monitoring and Evaluation. Independent of supervision by the National Authori-
ties responsible, it will be the responsibility of the MBRS Project, and in particular the role of
the PCU NRM Specialist and the Sociologist, to closely monitor these tasks, including via
periodic participatory assessments by project beneficiaries, with publication of the results
thereof, to ensure that management objectives are being met and to ensure that project goals
are being achieved. Supervision mission by Bank Staff will also be used to periodically



Annex 16
Page 6 of 6
monitor progress in implementation of the Process Framework and of the MPA Management
Plans and Operational Plans which would serve as the Action Plans for this framework. A
Mid-term Evaluation of the Project will provide a more formal review of progress against
benchmarks and of project performance in this context.
Marea Eleni Hatziolos
L:\Notebook7-24-00\documents\MBRS\P A D\MBRS PAD Final 4-05-Ol.doc
April 26,2001 2:05 PM






_____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ _____________ __IIRDD 33113
22                                                         CB
-22-           Gulf of Mexico                                                                                                     .                                          RD31
Area of,awp
MEXICO**Iros
=BE CZE .                .         Aribbean
-J   |   <           i/                                                21                 r      J   *.    eTyiguloa~~~~~~/        S.
21               1GAEA         -HNUA
SaSl EL        -
/ 'S Al. >4*tNICARAG
Pa           ie
7. /W   p- d byo l  O  -A*   n       STARICADi.
-. ... n.  .  ...B . s.-  (f               A      P
MEXICO                       ,f Th. MM BkA                                                                          .  e.p      .               <jn-      .
2V                                                                                                                       20                 \ Jo  20'ndt..
CENTRAL AMERICA
MESOAMERICAN BARRIER REEF SYSTEM
I     PPMORITY MARItNE PROTECTED AREAS (MPAs4                     Priority MPAs for the M8RS.
FOR THE MORS PROJECT                                    0   Santuaria del Monati
/Ba @hnco      h         REXISTINGMPAsWITHINTHEFARS                            0   Banco Chinchorro Biophere Roserve
Cfirnchorrn a            EXISTING MPAn WITHIN THE MaRS                           *  Arrwll de Xcalak Reseve'
/ 4   FjSELECT PROPOSED PROTECTED AREAS WITHIN THE MBRS
____ROADS                                                   *  Bacalar Chico Marine Reserve and National Park'
_I__ @   O   i   ;   |  RAILROADS                          -                   0    Corosal Bay Wilddfe Sanctuary
RIVERS                                    0~~~~~~~~~ South Water Cay. Marine Reserve
®     INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE CAPITALS                       0    Glover's Reel Marine Reserve
*     NATIONAL CAPITALS
- --  INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES                    0    Gladden Spit
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                9  Sapondlla Cayes Marine RFerve
Port Hondurais-Deeps River Forest Reserve
So |rstoon- Tmash National Park'
RIo Sarnt6n Proposed National Park
Punta de Manabique Proposed Special Protettion Area
g j  f; n    a    ; i§  Caribbean Sea            @  Oma-Baracoo Proposed Marine Reserve
~~~~~~~~~~~~~aibbean Sgoi5? ___Wea
Ouse                                                  QD  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Turtle Hairbor WIldlife Refuge and Marine Resoerv
'A h-nationial park  b"npbe  pr soed for Iaint
4   BEIIZ>,             l                                                                                                    manamenst oa fthses trarnboundaey protected area.
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   so_   ,0                5 200 X a5077
K~,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
S                                                                                                           X 
Ndi.-I                             LVwno- d. G                                                     NICAdU
po'k                        PmAscedA-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 20



