Page  1
September 15, 2000
Mr. Aroldo Quej
President
Comisión Centroamericana 
de Ambiente y Desarrollo
Boulevard Orden de Malta No. 470
Santa Elena, Antiguo Cuscatlán
EL SALVADOR 
Re:  Supplemental Grant for Preparation of the Conservation and 
Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Project
GEF-PPG Number TF 024297           
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global 
Environmental Facility (GEF) to indicate the Bank’s agreement to grant to 
Comisión Centroamericana de Ambiente y Desarrollo (the Recipient) a supplemental 
grant in an amount not exceeding US$141,130 (the Grant).  The purpose of the 
Grant is to finance certain supplemental expenditures required for the 
preparation of the referenced Project and not included in the grant made by the 
Bank to the Recipient for the same purpose, pursuant to the Letter Agreement 
signed by the Bank on May 7, 1999 and countersigned by the Recipient on June 3, 
1999 (GEF-PPG TF 022032). 
The Grant is made in response to a request for financial assistance and 
for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, such request having been made by the Recipient on behalf of 
the following countries:  Belize, the Republic of Guatemala, the Republic of 
Honduras and the United Mexican States (hereinafter collectively denominated 
“Participating Countries”).  The Recipient hereby confirms its request, which 
has been confirmed by the Participating Countries to the Recipient, that the 
Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for 
the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
The provision of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on 
the part of the Bank as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or 
the International Development Association to assist in the financing of the 
aforementioned Project.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this 
Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement 
fully countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of 
the date of this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Nicolette Bowyer
Acting Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Page  2
COMISIÓN CENTROAMERICANA
  DE AMBIENTE Y DESARROLLO 
By /s/ Haroldo Quej
President
Date:
October 6, 2000
Annex
Purpose, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the final stage of the 
preparation of the Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier 
Reef System Project (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which 
the Grant is given are as follows (and shall not include any activities carried 
out on behalf of the Bank and thus properly financeable by the Bank’s own 
administrative budget):
(a)
management and coordination of the preparation of the Project, with 
the assistance of consultants (a regional project coordinator, an accountant, a 
procurement specialist, a natural resources management specialist, and an 
environmental information specialist);
(b)
development and installation of project management systems to allow 
the Recipient to issue project management reports under the Project; and
(c)
completion by said consultants of Recipient project documentation 
required for GEF approval of the Project.
2.
(a)
The Bank shall utilize a portion of the Grant to finance the 
following expenditures incurred by individual consultants or any consulting firm 
engaged to assist in carrying out the Activities (the Consultants) in connection 
with their services:
(i)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(ii)
travel expenses; and 
(iii)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and 
reports.
(b)
The Bank shall also utilize a portion of the Grant to finance the 
purchase by the Consultants (under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank) 
of computers, software, office equipment and supplies required to carry out the 
activities set forth in paragraph 1 (b) of this Annex.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the 
Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively and to evaluate the 
results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank 
in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by July 31, 2001.  
After that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the 
Grant.
5.
(a)
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) 
required to assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the 
responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s 
applicable procedures.
(b)
The terms of reference referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of this Annex 
Page  3
shall specify that:  (i) the computers, office equipment and supplies referred 
to in said paragraph 2 (b) shall be purchased by the Consultants under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); (ii) 
the software referred to in said paragraph 2 (b) shall be purchased by the 
Consultants under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines; (iii) ownership of such computers, software, office equipment and 
supplies shall be transferred by the Consultants to the Recipient promptly upon 
purchase thereof (although the Consultants may continue to use such items as 
necessary for purposes of carrying out the Activities); and (iv) the 
Consultants, upon the Bank’s request, shall provide the Bank with all 
information required to evidence their compliance with said terms of reference.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, 
or in the territory of, the Participating Countries on the Consultants or any of 
the consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) 
or on the purchase of goods in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may 
at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the 
right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed 
to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right 
of any of the Participating Countries to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association, as 
the case may be, shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no 
right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to 
this Agreement.
9.
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, 
such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of 
the Bank and the Consultants as are set forth below.  If any member of the 
counterpart personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him by 
the Consultants that is consistent with the position occupied by such member, 
the Consultants may request the replacement of such member, and the Recipient 
shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such request.  Such counterpart 
personnel shall include a Recipient lawyer, Recipient procurement expert and 
Recipient financial expert.
10.
The Recipient and the Bank shall, from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the Activities, any reports prepared by the 
Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations or conclusions of 
those reports.  The Bank may use any such reports for any purpose the Bank 
considers appropriate but such reports shall not be made public except by 
agreement between the Recipient and the Bank.
