Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF-027739
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Conservation and Sustainable Use of the
Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System Project)
among
COMISIÓN CENTROAMERICANA DE AMBIENTE Y DESARROLLO
and
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
BELIZE
and
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated October 18, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF-027739
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 2001, among (a) COMISIÓN CENTROAMERICANA DE 
AMBIENTE Y DESARROLLO (the Recipient), (b) the REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA, (c) BELIZE, (d) 
the REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS, (e) the UNITED MEXICAN STATES and (f) INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust 
Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund, authorized 
Page  2
the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
(i) the Recipient was created by a convention (Convenio Constitutivo de 
la Comisión Centroamericana de Ambiente y Desarrollo) entered into in San José, Costa 
Rica, among the Republics of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador and 
Guatemala on December 12, 1989; (ii) said convention was subsequently also adhered to 
by Belize and the Republic of Panamá; (iii) the United Mexican States currently hold 
formal observer status with respect to the affairs of the Recipient; and (iv) said 
convention grants the Recipient patrimony over any funds it may obtain from external 
parties, such as the Bank, and also specifies that the Recipient may represent itself 
legally, through its President, before such parties;
(E)
the Recipient, the Republic of Guatemala, Belize, the Republic of 
Honduras and the United Mexican States, having satisfied themselves as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the 
Project), have requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for 
funding the Project, and said request having been approved in accordance with the 
provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global 
Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2 and to be funded from the 
resources of the GEF Trust Fund; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 
1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), 
(16), (18) and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), 
(o) and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
Page  3
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means 
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that, 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works, and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"GEF Trust Fund Grant Account" means the account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
is credited;
(d) 
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Recipient to the Bank, containing the counterpart resource obligations schedule, the 
PPIPDP (as hereinafter defined), the Process Framework, the environmental checklist, 
the list of MPAs (as hereinafter defined) and the indicators to be used in monitoring 
and evaluating the implementation of the Project;
(e)
"MBRS" means the Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System, a group of coral reefs 
and their ecosystems located off the Caribbean Sea coasts of the Participating 
Countries (as hereinafter defined), and in particular that segment of the system 
stretching from Isla Contoy off the northeast corner of Mexico’s Yucatán peninsula to 
the mouth of the Aguán river in northern Honduras;
(f)
"MPA" means a marine protected area (listed in the Implementation Letter) 
established in the MBRS by one or more Participating Countries as a means of 
protecting the ecosystems within such area;
Page  4
(g)
"NBRC" means a National Barrier Reef Committee referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Participating Countries" means the United Mexican States, Belize, the 
Republic of Honduras and the Republic of Guatemala;
(i)
"PCU" means the Program Coordination Unit referred to in Section 3.02 (d) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(j)
"PPIPDP" means the Participation Plan and Indigenous Peoples’ Development 
Plan set forth in the Implementation Letter;
(k)
"Process Framework" means the provisions, set forth in the Implementation 
Letter, for ameliorating negative impacts that conservation measures in and around 
MPAs may have on the livelihood of people affected by such measures;
(l)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(n)
"PWG" means the Policy Working Group referred to in Section 3.02 (f) of 
this Agreement;
(o)
"RSC" means the Regional Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(q)
"TAC" means the Technical Advisory Committee referred to in Section 3.02 
(c) of this Agreement; and
(r)
"TWG" means
a Technical Working Group referred to in Section 3.02 (e) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Participating Countries declare their 
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and, to this end, the Recipient, with the full cooperation of the 
Participating Countries (including the Participating Countries’ compliance with their 
specific obligations set forth in this Agreement), shall carry out the Project (as 
Page  5
shall the Participating Countries with respect to their actions thereunder) with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
social, ecological and environmental standards and practices.
(b)
The Participating Countries shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for 
the Project (according to the counterpart resource obligations schedule set forth in 
the Implementation Letter, which schedule may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Bank, the Recipient and the Participating Countries as a result, 
for example, of the annual reviews referred to in Section 3.07 (d) of this Agreement).  
No Participating Country shall, either by action or inaction, prevent or interfere 
with (or allow any of its subdivisions or parastatals to prevent or interfere with) 
the Recipient’s or any other Participating Country’s compliance with obligations under 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, each 
Participating Country shall maintain and keep active its National Barrier Reef 
Committee (Comité Nacional de Seguimiento del SAM; created as a consequence of the 
Tulum Declaration issued jointly by the Participating Countries on June 5, 1997 in 
Tulum, Quintana Roo, México), in compliance with the rules of membership and operation 
set forth for said National Barrier Reef Committees in the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(b)
The Recipient shall assemble, organize, and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation a Regional Steering Committee (to provide policy 
guidance for the Project), consisting of the Executive Secretary of the Recipient and 
the national Project coordinators (one such coordinator from each of the NBRCs), and 
with ex oficio participation of the PCU’s director, all in compliance with the rules 
of operation set forth for said Regional Steering Committee in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
(c)
The Recipient shall assemble, organize, and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation a Technical Advisory Committee (to advise the RSC on 
project technical matters), in compliance with the rules of operation set forth for 
said Technical Advisory Committee in the Project Implementation Manual.  Said 
Technical Advisory Committee shall consist of personnel in numbers, and with 
qualifications and experience, all satisfactory to the Bank and to the RSC.
(d)
(i)
The Recipient shall assemble, organize, and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation, as part of the Recipient and 
based in Belize, a Program Coordination Unit (to coordinate 
day-to-day implementation of the Project), in compliance with the 
rules of operation set forth for said Program Coordination Unit in 
the Project Implementation Manual. Said Program Coordination Unit 
shall consist of a director, an account/finance officer, a 
procurement officer, an information management specialist, an 
environmental monitoring specialist, a natural resources 
management specialist and a sociologist, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank and to the Recipient, plus 
two administrative/office assistants.
(ii)
Belize shall enter into a written agreement with the Recipient, 
defining Belize’s responsibilities as host of the PCU, with 
respect to the Recipient and the other Participating Countries as 
regards matters such as facilitation of access to (and activities 
in) Belize of non-Belizean personnel in the exercise of such 
personnel’s Project functions.
(e)
The Recipient shall assemble, organize, and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation a separate Technical Working Group for each of Parts 
A and D of the Project and two separate Technical Working Groups for each of Parts B 
and C of the Project (all to advise the PCU on technical matters relating to the 
relevant Part of the Project), in compliance with the rules of membership and 
operation set forth for said Technical Working Groups in the Project Implementation 
Manual.  Each of said Technical Working Groups shall consist of two representatives 
either from, or nominated by, each of the NBRCs, all with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank and the PCU.
Page  6
(f)
The Recipient shall assemble, organize, and thereafter maintain 
throughout Project implementation a Policy Working Group (to advise the TWGs on 
trans-national policy harmonization with regard to use of MBRS resources), in 
compliance with the rules of operation for said Policy Working Group in the Project 
Implementation Manual.  Said Policy Working Group shall consist of experts in 
environmental law and natural resources management policy from the Mesoamerican 
region, in numbers and with qualifications and experience all satisfactory to the Bank 
and the RSC.
(g)
Each Participating Country shall, throughout the course of Project 
implementation, maintain its NBRC representatives, referred to in paragraphs (b) and 
(e) of this Section, on the RSC and TWGs.  Each such representative shall be 
accredited before the PCU by written notice from the relevant Participating Country.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient, and the Participating Countries within their 
own jurisdictions, shall carry out the PPIPDP in accordance with the PPIPDP’s terms 
and apply the Process Framework in accordance with the Process Framework’s terms.
(b)
Each MPA management plan and operational plan prepared and/or updated 
pursuant to Part A.1 of the Project shall be satisfactory to the Bank and compliant 
with the laws of the relevant Participating Country. The Participating Countries 
shall, with respect to their MPAs, carry out the management and operational plans 
referred to in Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with such plans’ terms.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall issue a Project Implementation Manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth specific rules and procedures for 
implementation of the Project to be adhered to by the Recipient and the Participating 
Countries.  Said manual may be amended by the RSC from time to time, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate continued Project implementation.  In case of 
any conflict between the terms of said manual and those of this Agreement, the terms 
of this Agreement shall prevail.
(b)
The Recipient and the Participating Country within which infrastructure 
construction takes place under Part A.1 (c) of the Project shall ensure that:  (i) no 
such infrastructure construction shall be initiated unless the PCU’s natural resources 
management specialist has certified in writing to the Recipient and the Bank that the 
particular work in question satisfies the environmental checklist requirements set 
forth in the Implementation Letter, both with respect to the carrying out of the 
construction as well as to the eventual planned use and operation of the 
infrastructure (which checklist shall also be included in the Project Implementation 
Manual); and (ii) the infrastructure is constructed, used and operated in compliance 
with the requirements of said checklist and of the relevant Participating Country’s 
legislation.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be carried out exclusively by the 
Recipient (or by the agent referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section) and governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
The Recipient shall select and hire, in compliance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, an 
entity to serve as both procurement and disbursement agent to 
assist the Recipient in carrying out procurement of, and 
disbursement for, goods, works and consultants’ services required 
for the Project.  The Recipient shall obtain approval by the Bank 
of the proposed contract between the Recipient and the agent, 
prior to the signing of said contract.  Consultants for the 
Project may be hired by the agent only in the name, and on behalf, 
of the Recipient; title to goods purchased by the agent for the 
Project shall be transferred to the Recipient or to the relevant 
Participating Country as soon as practicable upon demand of the 
Recipient (but in any case no later than the Closing Date of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant).
(ii)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend or fail to enforce any provision of the above-cited contract 
with the agent.  The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry 
Page  7
out its obligations under said contract in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose among the Participating Countries, the Recipient and the 
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient (in which exchange the Participating Countries shall also participate) on 
the plan mentioned in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.07. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the 
Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to enable 
monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set 
forth in the Implementation Letter, of the carrying out of the Project and of the 
achievement of the objectives thereof (including procedures to obtain and publish 
periodic Project self-evaluations from indigenous peoples affected by the Project);
(b)
furnish to the Bank and to the RSC, no later than each November during 
Project implementation (beginning in November 2001):  (i) annual progress reports on 
Project implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports shall be 
based on the indicators and periodic self-evaluations referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section; and (ii) as part of each such report, an annual work plan, prepared by 
the PCU and satisfactory to both the Bank and the RSC, for project implementation 
during the immediately subsequent calendar year;
(c)
conduct an interim review with the Bank and the RSC, no later than each 
July during Project implementation (beginning in July 2002), of the annual reports, 
referred to in paragraph (b) above, prepared by no later than the immediately prior 
November; and
(d)
review with the Bank and the RSC, no later than during the first two 
weeks of each December during Project implementation (beginning in December 2001), the 
annual reports, referred to in paragraph (b) above, for the immediately preceding 
twelve months and, as a consequence of each such annual review:  (i) cause each annual 
work plan included in said reports to be carried out in accordance with such plan’s 
terms; and (ii) in general take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
continuation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof (including 
adjustments to the workings and membership of the NBRCs, RSC, TAC, PCU, TWGs and PWG 
to maintain compliance with the terms of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, such 
compliance being a matter to which the Bank shall devote particular attention during 
said annual and interim reviews).
Section 3.08. For purposes of Project implementation and supervision, the 
Participating Countries shall be subject to the terms of Sections 5.08, 8.01 (b), 9.01 
(a), 9.01 (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08, 9.09, 10.01, 10.03, 10.04 and Article XI 
of the General Conditions as if the Participating Countries were the Recipient 
(without prejudice to the applicability to the Recipient as well of the General 
Conditions as specified in Section 1.01 (a) of this Agreement). 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.  
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
Page  8
paragraph (a) of this Section (including those for the Special 
Account) for each Recipient fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts and a report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested (including, as part of the 
information to be provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the Recipient’s internal controls); and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account or payment out of the Special 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
(d)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the 
Recipient, not later than January 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(A) (I) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (II) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(B) (I) describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(II) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(C) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
Page  9
(ii)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(d) (i) of this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A Participating Country shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Participating Country will be able to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement.
(c)
The convention referred to in Whereas clause (D) of this Agreement shall 
have ceased to have effect for any Participating Country that is a party thereto or 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to, in the 
opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of the Recipient to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient or Belize shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement.
(e)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Recipient or Belize will be able to perform its obligations under the 
agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Project Implementation Manual has been issued and put into 
effect;
(b)
(i) that the PCU has been established and is functional, with at least 
the following personnel referred to in Section 3.02 (d) (i) of this Agreement already 
hired and in place:  the director, the account/finance officer, the procurement 
officer, the natural resources management specialist and one administrative assistant; 
and (ii) that the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement has 
been entered into by the Recipient and Belize and is satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
that the financial management system, referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, is satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
(i) that each Participating Country has separately furnished to the Bank 
a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable to the Bank, showing 
that, on behalf of such Participating Country, this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, such Participating Country 
and is legally binding upon such Participating Country in accordance with this 
Agreement’s terms; and (ii) that the Recipient and Belize have each separately 
furnished to the Bank a legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, of counsel acceptable 
to the Bank, showing that, on behalf of the Recipient and Belize, the agreement 
referred to in Section 3.02 (d) (ii) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and Belize and is 
legally binding upon the Recipient and Belize in accordance with such agreement’s 
Page  10
terms; 
(e)
that the contract referred to in Section 3.05 (b) (i) of this Agreement 
has been entered into by the Recipient and the procurement/disbursement agent; and
(f)
that the creation of each NBRC has been officially formalized in writing 
through a legal instrument of the relevant Participating Country.
Section 6.02. The date January 18, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Participating 
Countries and the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient, the Chief of the International Affairs Coordination Unit of the 
Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources of the United Mexican States is 
designated as representative of the United Mexican States, the Minister of Natural 
Resources, Environment and Industry of Belize is designated as representative of 
Belize, the Secretary of State for the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment 
of the Republic of Honduras is designated as representative of the Republic of 
Honduras and the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of the Republic of 
Guatemala is designated as representative of the Republic of Guatemala, for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Comisión Centroamericana de Ambiente y Desarrollo
Boulevard de la Orden de Malta no. 470
Urbanización Santa Elena
Antiguo Cuscatlán, El Salvador
Facsimile:
(503) 289-6124/25
For United Mexican States:
Unidad Coordinadora de Asuntos Internacionales
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
Lateral Periférico Sur 4209
Fraccionamiento Jardines en la Montaña
C.P. 14210, México, D.F., México
Facsimile:
(52)-5-628-0653
For Belize:
Ministry of Natural Resources, Environment and Industry
Belmopan, Belize
Facsimile:
(501) 82-23-33
For Republic of Guatemala:
Page  11
Ministerio de Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
Quinta Calle, 4-33
Zona 1
Edificio Plaza Rabí, 3er nivel, oficina 302
Guatemala, Guatemala
Facsimile:
(502) 230-1718
For Republic of Honduras:
Secretaría de Estado de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente
100 metros al sur del Estadio Nacional
Apartado Postal 1389, 4710
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Facsimile:
(504) 232-6250
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
COMISIÓN CENTROAMERICANA DE AMBIENTE Y DESARROLLO
By /s/ Mauricio Castro
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Ariel Rivera Irías
Authorized Representative
BELIZE
By /s/ Lisa Shoman
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ Hugo Noé Pino
Authorized Representative
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
Page  12
By /s/ Ernesto Enkerlin Hoeflich
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment                                                                                                                        
Facility
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
    320,000
see Part A.3 of
this Schedule
(2)
Goods (except as covered
see Part A.3 of
by Categories (4) or (5) 
this  Schedule
below)
  1,700,000
(3)
Consulting services
(except as covered by
Category (4) below)
  3,250,000
100%
(4)
Training
  1,600,000
100%
(5)
Operating costs
    800,000
see Part A.3 of
this Schedule
(6)
Unallocated
    830,000
      TOTAL
  8,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "training" includes only:  (i) fees of consultants employed as 
trainers; (ii) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by 
trainees in connection with their training; (iii) course fees charged by academic 
institutions; (iv) training facility rentals; and (v) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this 
paragraph; and
(b)
the term "operating costs" includes reasonable recurrent expenditures 
incurred in connection with operation of the RSC, TAC, PCU, TWGs and PWG for rentals, 
travel, room, board and per diem expenditures, maintenance, consumable materials and 
supplies and utilities (including salaries only for non-consultant personnel), which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project.
3.
The percentage of expenditures to be financed by the Bank, pursuant to 
Categories (1), (2) and (5) of the table in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule, shall be:  
(a) 100% in the case of items procured on the Recipient’s behalf through the services 
of a tax (sales or value-added)-exempt procurement agent or procured by the Recipient 
Page  13
directly when and if the Recipient maintains tax-exempt status; or (b) 85% in the case 
of all other items. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
525,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after December 15, 2000.
5.
The Bank may, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient, require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for items not 
subject to Bank prior review pursuant to Section I, Part D.2 and Section II, Part E.2 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as well as for expenditures covered by Categories (4) 
and (5) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule.
6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.01 (d) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.01 (d) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.01 (d) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
Page  14
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special 
Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, 
and shall notify the Recipient of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex,the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $150,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this GEF Grant Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  15
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, all 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
deposit into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to 
be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to enhance protection of the marine ecosystems 
that comprise the MBRS, as well as to assist the Participating Countries in 
strengthening and coordinating their national policies, regulations and institutional 
arrangements for the conservation and sustainable use of the MBRS.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient, the Participating Countries and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Marine Protected Areas
1.
(a) Establishment of data baselines and carrying out of monitoring programs with 
respect to ecological and socio-economic factors and conditions (including legal, 
policy and land tenure matters) regarding each MPA; (b) dissemination and 
participatory/consultative preparation of long-term (10-year) management plans, 
including financial strategies, for four MPAs, dissemination and 
participatory/consultative preparation and annual updating of short-term (2-year) 
operational plans for each MPA and provision of technical assistance to evaluate and 
harmonize implementation of said management and operational plans; (c) provision of 
equipment and infrastructure for the implementation of MPA management and operational 
plans; and (d) facilitation of regular meetings among Participating Country officials 
to foster international cooperation in the management of MPAs that share or are near 
to the same international border.
2.
(a) Provision of short-term courses to Participating Country officials, MPA 
staff and relevant stakeholders on subjects relating to marine park management and 
tourism resource development; and (b) provision of a basic standardized management 
training and natural history library to all MPA headquarters and ranger stations.
Part B:
Regional Environmental Information System
1.
(a) Design, establishment and implementation (aided by the provision of 
technical assistance, training and equipment) of a web-based, bilingual 
(English/Spanish) information system to manage and organize environmental data with 
respect to reefs, other ecosystems and adjacent waters of the MBRS region; (b) 
compilation of a comprehensive data base to form the initial nucleus of said 
information system; and (c) public dissemination of information on the environmental 
Page  16
health of the MBRS, stemming from the data processed through said information system.
2.
(a) Preparation of an environmental baseline for the MBRS regarding, inter alia, 
areas of high pollution risk, ecological community structure and dynamics and linkages 
between key ecosystems, as well as design and implementation of a program to monitor, 
inter alia, MBRS surface current patterns, water quality, sources of pollution and 
reef community dynamics; and (b) carrying out of targeted field research studies 
regarding matters to be monitored pursuant to said program.
Part C:
Promotion of Sustainable Use of the MBRS
1.
(a) Collection and analysis of data on fish spawning sites in the MBRS, followed 
by preparation of a draft regional policy for controlling exploitation of such sites; 
(b) promotion of sustainable management of fisheries in the MBRS through the design 
and implementation of a fisheries data collection and management system, provision of 
training to Participating Country officials on the use of computer- and 
ecosystem-based fisheries management models, provision of training to Participating 
Country officials, fishers and other relevant stakeholders on fisheries co-management 
techniques, carrying out of a study to address socio-economic relationships between 
fishing and other activities (such as tourism) within the MBRS and professional peer 
exchanges among fisheries technicians working in the MBRS; and (c) training of MBRS 
fishers in alternative income-generating activities such as kayaking, sport fishing, 
scuba diving and nature tour guiding.
2.
(a) Carrying out of annual regional policy dialogue and cooperative action fora 
among Participating Country tourism officials and stakeholders to promote actions and 
policies for sustainable coastal and marine MBRS tourism; (b) development and 
dissemination of a catalogue of exemplary practices for sustainable MBRS tourism; (c) 
establishment of a regional, independent mechanism to provide environmental 
certification to MBRS tourism operators (such as hotels/resorts, dive operators, 
cruise and sail operators, ecolodges), as well carrying out of an analysis of 
efficiency of various policy tools and/or incentives to enhance participatory 
enforcement and voluntary compliance with environmental regulations affecting the 
MBRS; (d) carrying out of a marine tourism exemplary practices study tour for the 
benefit of emerging marine tour operators in the MBRS, in order to expose them to the 
practices of leading adventure, marine and ecotourism travel operators in Central 
America; and (e) carrying out of a marine park and tourism resource development 
training program for Participating Country officials and relevant stakeholders.
Part D:
Public Awareness and Environmental Education
1.
Design and carrying out of a campaign to create public awareness of the 
significance of, and need to protect, the MBRS.
2.
Production and dissemination to Participating Country primary and secondary 
schools of educational materials on the significance of, and need to protect, the MBRS 
(as well as provision of training to said schools’ teachers on the proper use of such 
materials).
3.
Provision of non-formal education on MBRS topics, through workshops and 
conferences, to community leaders who influence MBRS stakeholders and to industrial 
and tourism sector leaders who directly affect MBRS resources.
Part E:
Regional Coordination and Project Management
1.
Carrying out of Project management and Participating Country project 
coordination activities through the establishment, maintenance and operation of the 
NBRCs, RSC, TAC, PCU, TWGs and PWG.
2.
Carrying out of an economic study of alternative economic development scenarios 
in the MBRS, which scenarios would have implications for MBRS coastal zone 
development, so as to promote a strategic vision for future MBRS initiatives.
*  *  *
Page  17
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding:
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with a competitive procedure, which procedure is both advertised 
within a Participating Country and carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
National or International Shopping:
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national (as applicable for a given Participating Country) or 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works:
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified contractors (from the 
Participating Country in which the works shall take place) in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
Page  18
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section, as 
well as the first two contracts procured under Part C.1 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured under Part C.2 of this 
Section, as well as the first two contracts under Part C.3 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall 
provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
With respect to contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph, the short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely Participating 
Country consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Procurement/Disbursement Agent Services
Procurement/disbursement agency services, as referred to in Section 3.05 (b) (i) 
Page  19
of this Agreement, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part B of this Section and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under Part C of this Section and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
(a)
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part E, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply, except that each such contract shall be awarded only after the Bank has 
approved the relevant terms of reference of employment of the consultant firms or 
individuals.
(b)
With respect to all contracts covered by this Section II, the terms of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
