Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2423-CHA
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2423-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1992, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by agreement dated March 4, 1991 between the Borrower and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) as Administrator of 
Grant Funds provided by Japan (the Japanese Grant Agreement), grant funds have been 
made available to the Borrower to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Japanese Grant Agreement; and
(C)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by People's Bank of China (PBC) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to PBC a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and PBC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AAPRC" means the Audit Administration of the People's Republic of China, 
and any successor thereto.
(b)
"Bank Management Regulations" means the Provisional Bank Management 
Regulations of the People's Republic of China, promulgated by the State Council on 
January 7, 1986.
(c)
"MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, and any successor 
thereto.
(d)
"MOF Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement.
(e)
"PBC" means People's Bank of China, the Borrower's central bank, 
organized and operating under the Bank Management Regulations.
(f)
"PBC Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement.
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
People's Bank of China (PBC), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement.
(h)
"Special Accounts" means the PBC Special Account and the MOF Special 
Account, and "Special Account" means any one of the Special Accounts.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-two million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 42,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) for the purposes of Part B of the Project; and 
(ii) for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and maintain in dollars two 
separate special deposit accounts, to be known as the MOF Special Account and the PBC 
Special Account, respectively, both in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
Page  3
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2003 and ending September 15, 2027. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2012 shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project through MOF and 
AAPRC, respectively, 
all with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and 
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the 
Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause PBC to perform all its 
obligations set 
forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable PBC to perform such obligations, and 
shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts B and C of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A of 
the Project available to PBC and the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part B of the 
Project available to MOF, both on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out by PBC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B and C of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  5
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to increase, by 
December 31, 1992, the ceiling on the permissible level of loan loss provisions which 
may be established by a financial institution to at least 0.5 percent of an 
institution's loan portfolio.
Section 4.03. The Borrower and the Association shall, jointly with  PBC, review 
annually the progress made in financial sector reform with reference to selected areas 
agreed among the Borrower, the Association and PBC, the first such review to take 
place in 1993.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
PBC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that PBC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
The Bank Management Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
PBC to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PBC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds under the Japanese Grant 
Agreement shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole 
or in part.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
Page  6
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform and of its 
obligations under 
the Japanese Grant Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(b)
contracts for consultants' services under Parts A.1 and A.3 (a), and B.1 
of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, have been concluded in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by PBC, and is legally binding upon PBC in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
Page  7
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Bu /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project:
(1)   Goods                    26,700,000       100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Consultants'             11,100,000       100%
      services and
      training
Page  8
(3)   Unallocated               2,300,000
Part B of the Project
(4)  Goods                       400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(5)   Consultants'             1,100,000        100%
      services and
      training
(6)   Unallocated                500,000
     TOTAL                    42,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the development of 
an efficient and stable financial sector in China and in laying the foundation for 
financial sector reform, by strengthening key elements of financial sector 
infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
People's Bank of China
 
Strengthening PBC and its role in the financial sector, through a program of 
technical assistance, providing consultants' services, staff training and equipment in 
the following areas:
1.
Regulation and supervision of the banking system, including improved bank 
examination and supervision processes and procedures, design and implementation of 
prudential regulations, and asset reviews of specialized banks.
2.
Development of a national payments and clearing system, including system 
development and implementation after the design stage.
3.
Modernization of: (a) the accounting framework for the financial sector, 
Page  9
including revision and implementation, with MOF approval, of accounting standards and 
practices; and (b) PBC's internal accounting and audit function.
4.
Enhancing PBC's capabilities to carry out its fiscal agent and monetary policy 
functions.
5.
Supporting the development of PBC's research and statistics function, graduate 
school and legal functions.
6.
Undertaking studies on directed credit and on PBC's automation strategy.
 
Part B:
Ministry of Finance
 
Strengthening selected MOF functions related to the financial sector, through a 
program of technical assistance, providing consultants' services, staff training and 
equipment in the following areas:
1.
Modernization of the accounting framework, including development and 
implementation of general and sector-specific accounting standards.
2.
Enhancing MOF's capabilities to carry out its government domestic and external 
debt management functions.
3.
Undertaking a feasibility study for a program of continuing professional 
education for certified public accountants.
Part C:
Audit Administration
 
Strengthening AAPRC's audit functions, through modernization of audit standards.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of 
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured with 
the prior agreement of the Association
on the basis of the procurement plan referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement under contracts awarded on the basis of: (a) competitive bidding, advertised 
locally; or (b) comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
from at least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines; or (c) 
Page  10
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines; all in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Contracts for proprietary items may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the MOF Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) 
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the MOF Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the MOF Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist MOF in carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
In implementing Parts B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that MOF 
and AAPRC comply with the following requirements:
(a)
all training shall be carried out in accordance with a training program 
agreed with the Association;
(b)
all studies shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference 
and timing agreed with the Association, and the study results shall be reviewed with 
the Association promptly upon completion of the study
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that MOF, in developing accounting standards under 
Part B.1 of the Project, shall:
(a)
prepare a work program for developing general accounting standards and 
practices within a three-year period, in harmony with international generally accepted 
accounting principles, including at
least 25 standards to be developed in the first two years;
(b)
promptly upon completion, furnish the work program to the Association for 
Page  11
comment and thereafter, implement the work program as agreed with the Association; and
(c)
promptly upon completion, furnish to the Association for comment a draft 
strategy for the implementation of such standards and practices, as well as any 
subsequent material modifications to the
strategy.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that AAPRC shall:
 
(a)
furnish to the Association for comment the auditing standards developed 
under Part C of the Project within four months of the completion of the related 
consultants' services; and
(b)
thereafter, introduce these standards as agreed with the Association, in 
the following year.
4.
For the purposes of effective project implementation, the Borrower shall ensure 
that:
(a)
MOF shall maintain its Project Office, with functions and 
responsibilities agreed with the Association, with competent staff in adequate 
numbers; and
(b)
MOF and AAPRC shall maintain staffing arrangements to provide adequate 
numbers of counterpart staff with appropriate qualifications to work with the 
consultants employed for the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, respectively.
5.
The Borrower shall cause MOF to furnish to the Association a procurement plan 
(specifying packaging and procurement procedures) to be agreed with the Association 
prior to any purchases of goods under Part B of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) for the PBC Special Account, 
Categories (1) and (2); and (ii) for the MOF Special Account, Categories (4) and (5), 
all set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project, in respect 
of the PBC Special Account, and for  Part B of the Project, in respect of the MOF 
Special Account, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to: (i) for 
the PBC Special Account, $3,000,000; and (ii) for the MOF Special Account, $100,000, 
all to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
Page  12
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into said 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of said Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals in respect of the respective Parts of the Project should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article 
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for said Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the respective Part of the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Part of the Project 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or  refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  13
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit into a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
