Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2423-CHA
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA
Dated December 30, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2423-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (PBC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty-two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,100,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that PBC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS PBC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PBC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and PBC shall otherwise agree, PBC shall carry out Part 
A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. PBC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) PBC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
PBC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PBC of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PBC
Section 3.01. PBC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PBC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
PBC shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. PBC shall, jointly with the Borrower and the Association, review 
annually the progress made in financial sector reform, in accordance with Section 4.03 
of the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
PBC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify PBC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For PBC:
Page  4
People's Bank of China
No. 32 Cheng Fang Street
Xi Cheng District, Beijing 100800
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
RENMINBANK
22612 PBCHO CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of PBC may be 
taken or executed by Governor or Deputy Governor or such other person or persons as 
Governor or Deputy Governor shall designate in writing, and PBC shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the
Page  5
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of 
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000, may be procured with 
the prior agreement of the  Association on the basis of the procurement plan referred 
to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under contracts awarded on the 
basis of: (a) competitive bidding, advertised locally; or (b) comparison of price 
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines; or (c) comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines; all in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Contracts for proprietary items may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance with the 
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the PBC Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the PBC Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the PBC Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist PBC in carrying out Part A of the Project, PBC shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
In implementing Part A of the Project, PBC shall comply with the following 
requirements:
(a)
all training shall be carried out in accordance with a training program 
agreed with the Association; and
(b)
all studies shall be carried out in accordance with terms of reference 
Page  6
and timing agreed with the Association, and the study results shall be reviewed with 
the Association promptly upon completion of the study.
2.
PBC shall complete asset reviews of the four specialized banks under Part A.1 of 
the Project by June 30, 1998, using asset classification criteria agreed with the 
Association. Such asset reviews shall
include off-balance sheet items and cover no less than 70 percent by value of each 
bank's total loan portfolio.
3.
PBC shall furnish to the Association for comment an implementation plan for the 
introduction of prudential regulations developed under Part A.1 of the Project, within 
four months of the completion of
the related consultants' services.
4.
Under Part A.3 of the Project, PBC shall, promptly upon completion, furnish to 
the Association for comment a proposed implementation plan for the introduction of 
revised accounting standards and practices for the financial sector, taking into 
account MOF's strategy for the implementation of general accounting standards and 
practices referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
5.
For the purposes of effective project implementation, PBC shall maintain the 
following, all with functions and responsibilities agreed with the Association:
(a)
its Leading Group, with representation from concerned departments of PBC, 
to guide and facilitate project management;
(b)
its Project Office, under the leadership of the Leading Group, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
staffing arrangements to provide adequate numbers of counterpart staff 
with appropriate qualifications to work with the consultants employed for the purposes 
of Part A of the Project.
6.
PBC shall furnish to the Association, a procurement plan (specifying packaging 
and procurement procedures) to be agreed with the Association prior to any purchases 
of goods under Part A of the Project.
