Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18752
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4069 - TUN)
December 29, 1998
Social and Economic Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Unit of Currency = Tunisian Dinar)
1993     1994    1995    1996    1997
Tunisian Dinar per US$, period average   1.004    1.012    0.946   0.973   1.106
Tunisian Dinar per US$, end-of-year      1.047    0.991    0.951   0.999   1.148
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CTN:  Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation
ECAL: Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
EEC:  European Economic Commission
ECU: European Currency Unit
EU:   European Union
FTA:  Free Trade Agreement
GDP:  Gross Domestic Product
GOT: Government of Tunisia
IBRD: International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
IMF:  International Monetary Fund
OC:   Office des Cereales
ONH: Office Nationale de I'Huile
OPNT: Office des Ports Nationaux de Tunisie
STAM: Socite Tunisienne d 'Acconage et de Manutention
TD:   Tunisian Dinar
UNO: United Nations Organizations
US:   United States
VAT: Value Added Tax
WTO: World Trade Organization
Vice President:                        Kemal Dervis
Director:                              John Page
Country Director:                      Christian Delvoie
Staff Member:                          Auguste Kouame



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4069 - TUN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I:  PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background                                                                         1
B.    Program Objectives                                                                 2
C.    Achievement of Program Objectives                                                  3
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Loan                                                   8
E.    Program Sustainability                                                             8
F.    Bank Performance                                                                   9
G.    Borrower Performance                                                               9
H.    Assessment of Outcomes                                                            10
I.    Future Operations                                                                 10
J.    Key Lessons Learned                                                               11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                                                     13
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                 14
Table 3:     Project Timetable                                                          15
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Estimates and Actual                                   15
Table 5:     Indicators of Project Implementation                                       16
Table 6:     Key Indicators of Project Operation                                        24
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project                                                25
Table 8A:    Project Costs                                                              26
Table 8B:    Project Financing                                                          26
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                                                26
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                                                  27
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                              29
[able 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                              29
rable 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                                                  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4069 - TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Competitiveness
Adjustment Loan (ECAL) for Tunisia. The loan (loan 4069-TUN) was in the amount of US$75
million equivalent, approved on July 25, 1996 and made effective on December 6, 1996. The loan
was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of December 31, 1997. The
ECAL consisted of two tranches, one equal to US$37.5 million and the other equal to FRF193.9
million. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 31, 1996;
the second tranche was released on June 3, 1998, and the loan was fully disbursed by June 30, 1998.
Parallel financing for the reform program was provided by the European Union in the amount of
ECU 100 million and disbursed in two tranches of ECU40 million and ECU60 million respectively.
The ICR was prepared by Auguste Tano Kouame, Economist (MNSED), and reviewed by Ms.
Daniela Gressani, Sector Leader (MNSED) and Mr. Paul Moreno-Lopez, Senior Country
Economist (MNCMG). Useful comments were received from Ms. Marisa Fernandez-Palacios,
Portfolio Manager, Mr. Hassan Fazel, Senior Country Economist, and Ms. Fatma Felah, Operations
Analyst (MNCMG). The Task Managers for the operation were Ms. Miria Pigato, Senior
Economist (DECPG) and Ms. Linda Likar, Principal Economist (MNSHD).
Preparation of this ICR is based on material in the project file and information collected through
interviews of Staff and Government Officials. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by commenting on the draft. The draft ICR was also discussed with the European Union.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4069 - TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    Introduction. Tunisia signed an Association Agreement with the European Union (EU) in
July 1995. The Agreement entailed trade liberalization by a gradual phasing out of tariffs. Since
the signing of the Association Agreement, the authorities have placed a stronger emphasis on
improving the efficiency and international competitiveness of the economy with a view to easing its
integration with Europe and the global economy. At the time this loan was prepared, many aspects
of the international competitiveness of the Tunisian economy were in need of improvement.
Though the real exchange rate has remained fairly stable, competitiveness has been hindered by
high production and transportation costs, inadequate telecommunications services, labor market
rigidities, limited and costly access to credit, and inadequate legal and incentives regimes.
ii.    Project Objectives.  The main objective of the Economic Competitiveness Adjustment
Loan (ECAL) was to improve the international competitiveness of the Tunisian economy in the
aftermath of the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union, with a view to
achieving a sustainable increase in the rate of economic growth. The ambition of the program was
not to tackle every single issue relating to competitiveness, but to focus on key areas suitable for
immediate policy actions, and leave other areas for future operations.
iii.   The program supported five broad areas of policy reforms: a) Maintenance of a stable
macroeconomic framework and fostering of a stable business environment; including by
introducing fiscal measures to replace revenue losses from  the expected tariff reforms; b)
Acceleration of the implementation of the Association Agreement, including the elimination of
tariff surcharges; thus easing domestic firms' access to capital and semi-finished goods used as
inputs; b) Acceleration of the pace of privatization in competitive sectors and the opening up of new
sectors to private capital so as to reduce inefficiencies and increase the role of the private sector in
the economy; d) Reduce transaction costs and improve the regulatory and administrative
environment in which enterprises operate, through lower transport costs, trade facilitation and an
improved legislative framework; and e) Reduce labor costs by increasing flexibility in the labor
market, particularly in lay-off procedures, while protecting workers and containing labor costs.
iv.   The initial timeframe for the operation appeared to be rather tight in view of (i) the need for
the Tunisian authorities to build broad support for some of the structural reforms (i.e. liberalization
of maritime activities and adoption of a new Company Code), and (ii) Tunisia's preference for
gradual and cautious implementation of reforms that could have adverse social impacts or weaken
government control in key sectors of the economy.
v.    Implementation Experience and Results. Overall, the program outcome is satisfactory.
Key areas of major success include the maintenance of a good macroeconomic framework
especially on the external front; the fast implementation of the free trade agreement included in the
Association Agreement signed with the European Union; and the big push given to privatization in
late 1997 to early 1998 which resulted in the successful privatization of two large cement
companies.



ii
vi.   On the macroeconomic front, Tunisia confirmed its commitment to macroeconomic stability
and consolidated its reputation of a soundly managed eccinomy. Current account deficits were
lower than pr-ogram targets in 1996 and 1997. The 1996 outcome may not necessarily be conducive
to the improvement of long-term competitiveness as it was brought about by a slowing of
investment-related imports. The 1997 outcome is more promising as it originated in a fast growth
of exports and a strong services account. Tunisia also maintained external reserves worth more than
3 months of imports, a historical high. The sound external position commanded confidence in
Tunisia's economy. The country was able to raise significant amounts of capital on international
financia' markets at favorable rates in 1997, and to attract a relatively large amount of foreign direct
investment in 1998.   To improve economic competitiveness in a durable manner, the
macroeconomic achievements on the external front will need to be accompanied with strong actions
geared at improving fiscal balances, reducing inflation and improving employment.
vii.   On the trade liberalization front, Tunisia started implementing the Association Agreement
two and a half years before the ratification of the Agreement in all EU countries. This move
signaled strong commitment on the part of Tunisia. The authorities managed to partially offset the
short-terrm losses of fiscal revenues due to the lowering of tariffs, by introducing other revenue
measures (e.g. broadening of the VAT coverage and upward adjustment of some VAT rates) as well
as some expenditure restraint measures (e.g. reducing food subsidy and controlling capital
expenditures). On the privatization front, Tunisia made a big leap forward in 1998 after a decade of
slow and inconsequential privatization, raising its cumulative privatization receipts since 1987 from
400 million dinars to over 830 million within a year. This impressive result was achieved largely
through the sale of two large cement companies.
viii.  Despite the program's large success, a number of policy actions envisaged to lower
enterprises' cost of doing business -- increasing the efficiency of maritime transport, introducing
some flexibility in the organization of dock labor, and adopting a new Company code -- were still to
be completed though at an advanced stage at the time the loan was closed. Two technical waivers
and a partial waiver were granted to allow for the release of the second tranche of the loan.
However, the financing arrangements and the cost of implementing the project did not change as a
result of the delays.
ix.   Key factors that affected achievement of the major objectives.  In 1996, abundant
rainfalls boosted agricultural output by 29 percent after two years of negative growth, and
tremendously helped GDP growth which reached 7 percent that year. In 1997, Tunisia succeeded in
raising funds on international capital markets at very favorable conditions, which allowed the
country to exceed the target for foreign exchange reserves selt in the ECAL program. On the other
hand, the need for, and difficulties in, building broad support for deregulation of maritime activities
and the revision of the Company Code slowed program implementation.
x.    Performance of the Bank. The Bank showed flexibility during program preparation and
reached an agreement with the authorities to postponing the banking sector reform component
initially envisaged in the operation in order to arrive at a fully satisfactory policy package for the
sector.  This change entailed a reduction of the loan amount by half.  During program
implementation, while recognizing Tunisia's preference for gradual implementation of reforms, the
Bank pressed for fast reformis where there was a strong case to do so. For example, through the
program, a large-scale privatization was successfully undertaken for the first time in Tunisia. In
addition, the Bank closely coordinated its loan preparation and supervision with the European
Union, and worked closely with the IMF on the macroeconomic framework for the operation.



xi.   Performance of the Borrower. Tunisian officials were actively involved in the design of
the program and took full ownership thereof. During program implementation, the borrower
experienced some delays in meeting some loan covenants because of the political sensitivity of the
measures involved and the need to build broad support before implementing them. In other areas -
such as macroeconomic management and privatization, the Tunisian authorities occasionally
implemented measures that went beyond program targets. During program supervision, Tunisian
officials responded to Bank's requests for information dissemination, although, at the initial stage of
program implementation, information on the status of the privatization program was not made
public.
xii.   Project sustainability. Macroeconomic stability is likely to be sustained, given the track
record and the generally good initial conditions; however, inflexibility of budgetary expenditures
(essentially due to a heavy wage bill), worsening external financing conditions, and in general a
deteriorating international scene, constitute factors of risk. Regarding trade reforms, much progress
has been made, and there is momentum. It is unlikely that reversals will take place. However a
much more severe deterioration in the world economy could cause demand for Tunisian exports to
stagnate, worsen the trade balance, and perhaps slow down fiurther tariff reductions. A much worse
international situation would also have effects on the ability of the Tunisian economy to reduce
unemployment. Lastly, improvements on the regulatory and labor market fronts are likely to
proceed slowly, in part because of the need to generate broad support.
xiii.  Working closely with the authorities, the Bank has just appraised a second Economic
Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL II) that will consolidate progress made under the first
ECAL. The second ECAL will primarily aim at strengthening the banking sector by improving
banking regulation and settling bad loans owed by public and semi-public enterprises.
xiv.  Key lessons learned. The first lesson leamed through the program supported by this loan
is that there are gains to be made in fast, yet orderly implementation of structural reforns as seen
with privatization and trade reforms. The Tunisian authorities and the Bank should continue to seek
ways to speed up structural reforms in other areas of the economy. The second lesson is that
collaboration with other development partners such as the EU and the IMF can greatly leverage
Bank's resources and enhance the impact of Bank's intervention.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4069 - TUN)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   BACKGROUND
1.    From independence in 1956 to the mid-1980s, Tunisia's development process was
essentially government-led. Government undertook large public investment programs whose
rationale was not always to provide services of a public good nature. Government also felt the
need to supplement private investment deemed insufficient, and to ensure adequate levels of
investment in areas of strategic national interest. In 1986, oil prices fell markedly and caused a
fall in oil related revenues for the Government. This added to the effects of the large public
outlays and rigid current public expenditures to cause a near balance of payments crisis.
2.    Since then, Tunisian authorities have consistently pursued a program of economic
adjustment and structural reforms aimed at instilling macroeconomic stability, introducing
market determined incentives, and improving the outward orientation of the economy. Sound
macroeconomic management has helped withstand the impact of adverse developments, such as
drought, the Gulf war, and slow economic growth in Europe in the early 1990s. Annual real
GDP growth increased from an average of 3 percent during the 1980-86 period to more than 4
percent during 1987-97, and growth rate of per capita income doubled to 2.4 percent per annum,
which, combined with enlightened policies for human resources development, helped to
significantly reduce the share of the population living in poverty. From 9 percent in 1980-86, the
average annual rate of inflation declined to 6 percent in 1987-97 mainly as a result of a gradual
reduction in the fiscal deficit (from an average of 5.5 percent to 4.2 percent), and a better control
of monetary aggregates. The country's external position has improved tremendously, with end-
of-year gross foreign reserves increasing from the equivalent of 1.3 months on imports on
average during 1984-86 to 2.2 during 1987-1995 and to over 3 during 1996-98. Furthermore, the
cautious implementation of economic measures has helped minimize social disruptions and
conflicts.
3.    Economic adjustment, and therefore securing stable macroeconomic environment for
private investment, took place in a very dynamic global economic environment, particularly in
countries -- in Asia and Eastern Europe -- competing with Tunisian products in international
markets (especially in the European Union). In Tunisia, the process was slow and piecemeal.
The authorities implemented a partial trade liberalization, the thrust of which was to give trade
protection to import competing firms and tax advantages to enterprises producing exclusively for
exports under subcontracting agreements in low skill activities such as garment assembly. The



2
former hindered an efficient utilization of capital resources and the latter may have introduced
labor market biases towards unskilled labor. Many of Tunisia's competitors increased their
comparative edge; achieving higher labor productivity (either through low wages or through
higher technical skills, or both), and lower costs of transportation of goods and services.
4.    Tunisia signed an Association Agreement with the EU in July 1995. The Agreement,
which was the first to be signed between the European Union and a country of the Middle East
and North Africa region, entailed trade liberalization by a gradual phasing out of tariffs. Since
the signing of the Association Agreement, Tunisian authorities have placed a stronger emphasis
on improving the efficiency and international competitiveness of the economy with a view to
easing its integration with Europe and the global economy. As an indication of the authorities
resolve to open up the economy, the implementation of the Association Agreement started in
Tunisia two and a half years before its ratification by all EU countries; and the privatization of
public enterprises received a big push in late 1997 and early 1998.
5.    At the time when this loan was prepared, many aspects of the international
competitiveness of the Tunisian economy still needed improvement. Though the real exchange
rate had remained fairly stable, international competitiveness was hindered by high production
and transportation costs, slow and inefficient port and customs procedures, inadequate
telecommunications services, labor market rigidities, limited and costly access to credit, and
inadequate legal and incentives regimes.
6.    Whilst in the 1970s and early 1980s, the Bank's lending program to Tunisia was in
support of investments in infrastructure, social development and agriculture, since the beginning
of Tunisia's adjustment process in 1986, the Bank has also supported broad economic reforms
through seven adjustment operations for a total of US$989 million. The latest adjustment
operation is the Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan.
B.    PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
7.    The main objective of the Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL) was to
improve the international competitiveness of the Tunisian economy in the aftermath of the
signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union, with a view to achieving a
sustainable increase in the rate of economic growth. The program was expected to increase the
efficiency of resource allocation in the economy and the productivity of the private sector;
strengthen Tunisia's balance of payments and consolidate its access to private capital markets;
and facilitate the integration of Tunisia with world markets.
8.    The program  supported five broad areas of policy reform: a) Maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework and foster a stable business environment; including by introducing
fiscal measures to replace revenue losses from the expected tariff reforms; b) Acceleration of the
implementation of the FTA; including the elimination of tariff surcharges, thus easing domestic
firms' access to capital inputs and intermediate goods; c) Acceleration of the pace of
privatization in competitive sectors and the opening up of new sectors to private capital so as to
increase the role of the private sector in the economy and reduce inefficiencies; d) Reduce
transaction costs and improve the regulatory and administrative environment in which
enterprises operate, through lower transport costs, trade facilitation and an improved legislative
framework; and e) Reduce labor costs by increasing flexibility in the labor market, particularly in
lay-off procedures, while protecting workers and containing labor costs.



3
9.    The ambition of the program  was not to tackle every single issue relating to
competitiveness, but to focus on key areas suitable for immediate policy actions and leave other
areas for future operations. The initial timeframe for the operation appeared to be rather tight in
view of (i) the need for the Tunisian authorities to build broad support for some of the structural
reforms (i.e. liberalization of maritime activities and the adoption of a new Company Code), and
(ii) Tunisia's preference for gradual and cautious implementation of reforms that could have
adverse social impacts or weaken government control in key sectors of the economy.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
10.   Overall, the program outcome is satisfactory. Key areas of major success include the
maintenance of a good macroeconomic framework especially on the external front; the fast
implementation of the free trade agreement included in the Association Agreement signed with
the European Union; and the big push given to privatization in late 1997 and early 1998 which
resulted in the successful privatization of two large cement companies. Despite the program's
large success, a number of policy actions envisaged to lower enterprises' cost of doing business
-- increasing the efficiency of maritime transport, introducing some flexibility in dock labor, and
adopting a new Company code -- were still to be completed though at an advanced stage at the
time the loan was closed. Two technical waivers and a partial waiver were granted to allow for
the release of the second tranche of the loan.
11.   Macroeconomic Management. On the macroeconomic front, the major achievement of
the program was Tunisia's improved external position and enhanced access to foreign capital
both through international capital markets and foreign direct investment. The 1996 current
account deficit was lower than program target owing to low investment related imports in 1996,
which may not be promising for future competitiveness. Investment related imports picked up in
1997; exports also grew fast - albeit slightly less so than program target - and the services
account showed a strong turnout. Hence a current account deficit in 1997 lower than program
target. The external debt to GDP ratio improved considerably, declining from 58 percent in 1995
to 54 percent in 1997. Foreign reserves ended up at a higher level than targeted -- at historical
high cushions of 3.2 and 3.3 months of imports in 1996 and 1997 respectively. The stronger
reserves position is a reflection of Tunisia's improved ability to raise funds on international
capital markets at favorable conditions. In 1997, the authorities were able to tap the US dollar
euromarket for the first time, raising US dollars 400 million at very favorable rates of 140 basis
points above US Treasury for 10-year notes, and 180 basis points above US Treasury for 30-year
bonds. They also raised Yen 12.5 billion in 20-year Samurai bonds with a coupon of 4.35%.
Table I: Program macroeconomic targets and results
1996      1996      1997     1997
Program    Actual   Program    Actual
targets            targets
Exports (Good and non factor   4.7      0.5       7.3      6.9
services)
Manufac. Exports              4.4      -11.8      8.2      7.5
% Share of GDP
Fiscal Balance               -3.8      -4.0      -3.0      -3.4
Current Account              -3.8      -2.7      - 3.8     -3.4
Reserves (months of imports)  3.0       3.2       3.1      3.3
Debt outstanding             53.1      55.6       52        54



4
12.   Though good, the macroeconomic achievements on the domestic front were less
impressive. At 3.4 percent of GDP, the 1997 fiscal deficit of the central government was an
improvement over the 1996 level of 4.0 percent. But in both years the fiscal deficit missed the
program targets. The 1996 fiscal slippage was due to a steeper drop than expected in trade-
related fiscal revenues during the first year of the implementation of the FTA. Behind the 1997
fiscal slippage were rigidities in current expenditures (particularly the wage bill), lower than
expected oil revenues, and a slower than expected impact of the new revenue measures designed
to compensate for declining trade related revenues in the second year of the implementation of
the free trade agreement. The authorities confirmed their commitment to macroeconomic
stability and made great strands at limiting fiscal slippage by implementing expenditure restraint
measures not foreseen in the program. The inflation rate was 3.7 percent in 1996 as in 1997,
lower than the projected level of 4.5 percent in 1996 but higher than the projected level of 3.3
percent in 1997. There is room for further reduction in inflation as it remains higher than in
major European trade partners -- EU inflation averaged 2.1 percent per year in 1996-98.
13.   Tax measures. The implementation of the FTA with the EU has a short-term adverse
impact on government revenues due to the forgone trade related fiscal revenues. The issue of
ensuring tariff reduction with fiscal revenue neutrality was then a major concern of the program,
and new compensatory revenue measures were introduced under the program in order to avoid
that implementation of the FTA cause a deviation from government's fiscal stance in the short-
term. The compensatory measures included an increase of the value added tax rate from 6
percent to 10 percent for certain petroleum products and to the standard rate of 17 percent for
others - such as unleaded gas and heavy fuels; an increase of the minimum rate of taxation for
income profits from 10 percent to 15 percent; and the inclusion of imported capital goods in the
10 percent VAT rate category. VAT related revenues increased by 160 million dinars between
1996 and 1997, that is an increase of 16 percent, compared to an increase of 12 percent a year
earlier.
14.   The increase in VAT revenues was however insufficient to compensate for the decline in
trade related fiscal revenues caused by the implementation of the free trade agreement. To limit
the fiscal slippage, the authorities implemented expenditure restraints measures consisting in
increasing the administered prices for subsidized food products (mainly flour, semolina, oil, and
milk), and thus limiting government transfers to the Caisse Generale de Compensation or the
fiscal cost of food subsidies to 1.7 percent of GDP as foreseen in the program. As part of their
efforts to limit fiscal slippage in 1997, the authorities took additional expenditure restraints
measures by freezing certain expenditures in 1997 (especially in the capital expenditure
category) for a total of about US$120 million.
15.   The 1997 revenue measures were consolidated in 1998 - with an increase of the
(standard) VAT rate from 17 percent to 18 percent for most products (and decrease of the rate
from 29 percent to 18 percent for some products); an increase of VAT rate on petroleum
products from 10 percent to 18 percent; and an increase of VAT rate on electricity for domestic
users from 6 percent to 10 percent. The 1997 and 1998 measures are now yielding substantial
revenue increases, with an increase of nearly 32 percent in VAT related revenues in the first 10
months of 1998 over the same period in 1997. The authorities consider these reforms as
structural and have no plan to modify the VAT structure in the near future.



5
16.   The program also introduced some transparency in the allocation of subsidies to the
public agencies in charge of commercializing cereals and oil. Government policy to fix the
prices of cereals and oil to consumers contributed to operating deficits of the Office des Cereales
and Office Nationale de I'Huile; and budgetary transfers proved inadequate to cover those
deficits. The above agencies financed their deficits through borrowing from the banking system.
Under the program, government decided to repay the arrears that those agencies had built up vis-
a-vis banks, namely the Banque Nationale Agricole. To settle the arrears, the government
received an advance of 960 million dinars from the Central Bank to be repaid through the budget
over 12 years without interest. Moreover, the Government decided to make adequate budgetary
transfers to the Caisse Generale de Compensation in order to ensure that no further arrears
develop vis-a-vis the banking system.
17.   Trade Policy. The Association Agreement signed with the European Union in July 1995
includes a phased creation of a free trade area. Under the Agreement, tariffs on import of goods
(excluding agricultural goods) will be progressively eliminated over a 12-year period (1996-
2007), starting with those on capital and intermediate goods. The program supported by this
loan helped accelerate the implementation of the FTA by incorporating the phased tariff
reduction in the 1997 budget and by helping to expedite the ratification of the FTA by the
Chamber of Deputies. The implementation of the free trade agreement in Tunisia began roughly
two and a half years prior to its ratification in all EU countries. The early start at implementing
the FTA signaled strong commitment on the part of Tunisia. Other major achievements of the
program are the removal of all trade surcharges, and the harmonization of tariffs on capital good
imports from outside the EU.
18.   Despite possible short-term costs that may arise from increased competition faced by
domestic firms, the program has helped confirm that the FTA represents a unique opportunity for
sustained growth. With the implementation of the FTA, Tunisian firms will have easier and less
costly access to intermediate goods on international markets, which should contribute to
improving their competitiveness. They will also have access to a larger market for their
products. Imports of machinery and semi-finished products have accelerated in 1997 and 1998
with a potential positive effect on the productivity of firms; and manufacturing exports have
already shown signs of accelerated growth in 1997 and 1998. In order to further reduce tariffs,
the Government aims at streamlining the rates and reducing the average tariff rate from 43
percent in 1997 to 25 percent in 2001. The Government also concluded negotiations with the
World Trade Organization on the complete elimination of quantitative import restrictions
(mainly on cars) by 2001, and has negotiated tariff harmonization arrangements with a number
of countries outside the EU.
19.   Reducing the Role of the State in Competitive and Commercial Sectors. Until late
1997-early 1998, the Tunisian privatization program, launched in 1987, had proceeded rather
slowly. With the program supported by this loan, the privatization program made an important
leap forward.  In 1998 alone, privatization yielded revenue of 435 million dinars for
government's budget, more than the combined privatization proceeds of the previous 10 years.
The 1998 balance of payments also greatly benefited from Government's renewed privatization
effort in the form of increased foreign direct investment, a boon at a time when borrowing from
international capital markets was made difficult for emerging market economies due to the
financial crisis in Asia and Russia.



6
20.   The success of the privatization program in 1998 was however slow in coming. During
the preparation of the ECAL, Tunisian authorities compiled a list of 63 public enterprises to be
privatized. The Bank and the authorities agreed upon that list. Tunisian officials subsequently
informed the Bank that some small companies had been removed from the list for reasons having
to do with political sensitivity or strategic interest. This, and delays in receiving technical
assistance to strengthen the Privatization Unit in the Ministry of Economic Development,
delayed the implementation of this component of the program.
21.   The government willingly substituted the public enterprises removed from the original
list with other public enterprises in order to meet program target of bringing to the point of sale
at least 51% of the capital of a number of enterprises corresponding to 50% of net assets of the
agreed list of 63 public enterprises. This allowed for the privatization of the Societe des Ciments
d'Enfidah and the Cimenteries Jebel Ouest, which generated over 400 million dinars in foreign
investment.
22.   With the successful privatization of these two large cement companies, Tunisian
authorities achieved more than the privatization targets foreseen in the program. They brought to
the point of sale more than 51 percent of the capital of enterprises, corresponding to 54 percent
of the net assets of the selected enterprises. The Government hired a renowned international
investment firm as advisor for the privatization of the cement companies, and the sale was made
under international competitive bidding procedures.  All participants have praised the
Government for the transparency of the process. Moreover, under the program, the Government
began publishing sale outcomes and articles on the results and impact of the privatization
program in local economic journals and newspapers. The recent success of privatization is
perceived as a key asset in moving forward the privatization agenda in coming years.
23.   Deregulation of Maritime Activities and Trade Facilitation. This is an area where
progress has been slow under the program. To improve competitiveness, this component of the
program was aimed at reducing the cost, and increasing the speed, of shipping. Areas of progress
were accompanied by areas were program objectives remain to be achieved. Going beyond the
mere submission of a draft legislation as planned in the program, the Government has approved a
law abolishing the privileges granted to Tunisian ship-owners in chartering, a big step towards
the liberalization of maritime activities. A draft law on commercial port activities is currently
being reviewed by the Chamber of Deputies and its adoption is expected in the near future.
However, little progress was made in incorporating the redefinition of the functions of OPNT
and the new regime of maritime domain. The authorities need to shift to a more rapid reform
stance in maritime transports if the competitiveness of Tunisian exporters is to be markedly
improved.
24.   Progress was slow and partial in introducing flexibility and competition in working
conditions of dock labor. Negotiations between the government and workers' union were
protracted and decision making was politically sensitive. A draft law was presented to the
Chamber of Deputies but had not been approved, let alone published in the Official Gazette, at
the time of the release of the second tranche of the loan, and a technical waiver was granted.
25.   Progress was made in restructuring the Compagnie Tunisienne de Navigation (CTN), the
state maritime company. However there is no indication of progress towards its privatization.
The restructuring of the Societe Tunisienne d'Acconage et de Manutention (STAM) lagged. A
consulting firm prepared a restructuring plan, but the Government found the work unsatisfactory,



7
and another plan will be prepared. At the time of the release of the second tranche of the loan, a
partial waiver was issued because of delays in adopting the restructuring plan of STAM.
26.   Under the program, a trade facilitation committee composed of all concerned groups in
Tunisia, produced the single trade document (liasse unique) envisaged in the Association
Agreement with the EU. The liasse unique was published as decree in the Official Gazette in
December 1997. The decree simplifies the documentation and ports procedures and brings the
customs code up to date and in conformity with the EU code. This is expected to reduce the time
required for custom claims processing and clearance.
27.   Telecommunications.  In Tunisia, entry of private capital in the telecommunications
sector is tightly controlled although global experience suggests that, thanks to recent technical
progress, the telecommunications sector can no longer be viewed as a natural monopoly sector.
Many countries have indeed privatized their national monopolies and allowed the emergence of
new private service providers. Tunisian authorities presented to the Bank an agenda for the
liberalization of the telecommunications sector in Tunisia. The proposed plan was slow and fell
short of Bank's expectations; it proposed selling just 10 percent of Tunisie Telecom - the public
monopoly - only by 2002, and liberalizing mobile telephone and paging services only in 2000.
The slow development of telecommunications may put a break on the development of the
Internet in Tunisia, and deny firms expanded and affordable access to information, a key input
and a key element of their efficiency and international competitiveness. The authorities have
invoked the strategic character of telecommunications to justify the overly cautious approach to
its liberalization.
28.   Business Environment and Labor Cost. To improve competitiveness of enterprises, one of
the objectives of the program supported by this loan was to adapt the legal framework, increase
flexibility of the labor market, and decrease the cost of labor while improving workers'
protection. A new company code was drafted under the program. The new draft represents
important progress; among other innovations, it enables mergers and acquisitions -- previously
not possible. The drafting of the new company code took longer than anticipated at program
formulation stage, and its submission to the Chamber of Deputies - a key condition for the
release of the second tranche of the loan - was delayed because the Government used a broad
consultative process to prepare the draft. The draft was submitted to all Ministries concerned as
well as to the private enterprises organization for comments. At the time of the release of the
second tranche of the loan, a technical waiver was granted on this component of the program in
order to allow the Government enough time to complete the consultative process and possibly
facilitate the approval of the new Company Code by the Chamber of Deputies upon its
submission by the Government.
29.   Reforms were introduced to increase the flexibility of the labor market and reduce labor
costs. Procedures for lay-offs for economic reasons were eased; a draft law was submitted to the
Chamber of Deputies creating a limited severance scheme to cover the separation packages paid
to workers laid-off for economic reasons; and measures were taken to reduce the burden of social
security contributions for employers in the non-agricultural private sector.



8
D.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE LOAN
30.   Factors not generally subject to Government's control. In 1996, abundant rainfalls
boosted agricultural output by 29 percent after two years of negative growth in the sector. This
tremendously helped GDP growth that year. In 1997, Tunisia succeeded in raising funds on
international capital markets at very favorable conditions, which allowed the country to exceed
the target for foreign exchange reserves set in the program. The situation has changed somewhat
in 1998. Because of the Asian financial crisis, foreign investors who do not have enough
information to differentiate between emerging market economies, are asking for very high
spreads or withdrawing funding. Under the circumstances, despite Tunisia's good records of
macroeconomic management, the financing of its external capital needs may prove expensive in
1998 and 1999. For 1998, the situation is eased by good inflows of foreign direct investment
owing to the success of the privatization program.
31.   Factors generally subject to Government's control. Program implementation was
slowed by the need for, and difficulties in, building broad support for deregulation of maritime
and port activities, and for reforming the business environment. The disbursement of the second
tranche was delayed by six months. At the time of the release of the second tranche of the loan,
the deregulation of dock labor, the adoption of a new company code, and the restructuring plan
of STAM were lagging. Two technical waivers and one partial waiver were granted to take
account of substantial progress made in other program areas.
E.    PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
32.   Progress made under the program appears sustainable to a large extent. The authorities
are committed to moving forward on key program components such as the deepening of trade
liberalization and privatization - with two other large cement companies expected to be
privatized in 1999. They are also prepared to make headway in areas where reforms were
deemed premature under the program supported by this loan. The authorities are thus deepening
reforms in the financial sector, improving banks portfolio, introducing new instruments for
government borrowing, facilitating the emergence of a secondary market, and deepening the
interbank foreign exchange market. These reforms will contribute to the efficiency of the
financial system and help sustain progress made in the real sector under this loan. The
authorities are also looking to reforming the civil service.. Such reform will contribute to (i)
reducing the weight of the public sector wage bill on public resources therefore making the fiscal
stance sustainable, and (ii) strengthening the administration's capacity to support the private
sector in upgrading international competitiveness.
33.   A number of factors may however change the perceived sustainability of important
program components. Macroeconomic stability is likely to be sustained, given the track record
and the generally good initial conditions; however fiscal inflexibility mainly due to the wage bill,
contingent liabilities due to enterprises or banks that may not sustain competition from European
firms, worsening external financing conditions, and in general a deteriorating international scene
constitute factors of risk. In Tunisia, many university graduates prefer to wait two to three years
for a Government job rather seek employment or self-employment in the private sector because
of low wage at entry levels and job insecurity in the latter sector. Because job creation in the
formal private sector is inadequate, the public sector continues to absorb a large number of new
graduates. For social reasons, a continuation of weak job creation by the private sector may



9
make it difficult for the government to reduce intake of new graduates in the civil service, reduce
the share of the wage bill in the budget, and maintain its fiscal stance.
34.   Much progress has been made in trade reform. There is momentum, and it is unlikely
that reversals will take place. Tunisian trade is still highly concentrated with Europe. If the
resilience shown by European countries so far to the crises affecting Asia, Russia, and Japan
fades out, demand for Tunisian exports may stagnate, affecting the sustainability of external
balance. This could inspire non-market responses to restore external balances, with risks of
slowing the implementation of trade liberalization.
35.   Owing to Tunisia's tradition of public enterprises and public provision, the privatization
drive is still not comprehensive. Notwithstanding the success of the 1998 privatization, there is
some uncertainty as to how the country will manage to expedite the sale of some other public
enterprises previously identified for privatization. If privatization lags behind trade reforms, and
efficiency in the production of goods and services continues to be constrained by non-
competitive public enterprises in the manufacturing and services sectors, domestic producers
may not be able to compete with imports. This may usher in some company closures, slow down
the development of the manufacturing and formal services sectors of the economy, and could
inspire some pressure for protective measures.
F.    BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   The Bank maintained an active dialogue and cooperation with the Tunisian authorities
during program design and implementation. The Bank showed flexibility during program
preparation and reached an agreement with the authorities to postponing the banking sector
reform component initially envisaged in the operation in order to arrive at a fully satisfactory
policy package for the sector. This change entailed a reduction of the loan amount by half. The
authorities are now addressing the banking sector reform in a second ECAL where the Bank has
put more effort at helping to design policies to strengthen banks' portfolio and banking
regulation.
37.   Some program components were rather ambitious and the initial timeframe for program
implementation rather tight. However, during supervision, the Bank took into account Tunisia's
preference for gradual and cautious implementation of reforms, while encouraging fast and
vigorous reforms where appropriate. This accommodating yet determined approach paid off.
For example, through the program, a large-scale privatization was successfully undertaken for
the first time in Tunisia. The Bank also persuaded the authorities that the dissemination of
information on the privatization process to the public was critical to improving the image of
privatization and to maintaining its public acceptance. The Bank closely coordinated its loan
preparation and supervision with the European Union, which provided parallel financing to the
reform program, and worked closely with the IMF on the design and monitoring of the
macroeconomic framework of the operation.
G.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   Tunisian officials were actively involved in the design of the program and took full
ownership thereof. During program implementation, the borrower experienced some delays in
meeting some loan covenants because of the political sensitivity of the measures involved, the
need to build broad support before implementing them, and the time required for the Chamber of



10
Deputies to discuss and pass draft law presented them by the Government. In some program
areas - such as macroeconomic management and privatization, the Tunisian authorities
successfully implemented measures that went beyond program targets.  During program
supervision, Tunisian officials responded to Bank's requests for information dissemination,
although, at the initial stage of program implementation, information on the status of the
privatization program was not made public.
H.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
39.   Through policy actions taken under the program, significant progress was made towards
achieving the development objective of improving the international competitiveness of the
Tunisian economy. The program helped maintain a stable macroeconomic environment in
Tunisia. Real GDP growth was strong -- though aided in 1996 by a strong recovery of the
agricultural sector thanks to abundant rains. Tunisia's external position was soundly managed in
1996-1998, and the level of foreign exchange reserves was adequate to cover three months of
imports of goods. During its 1998 article IV consultations, the IMF expressed confidence in the
Tunisian macroeconomic framework. To markedly improve international competitiveness,
inflation will need to be reduced further in 1999 and beyond.
40.   With strong trade liberalization and a successful privatization program, Tunisia has
advanced its reform agenda and confirmed its readiness to undertake the changes necessary to
ensure macroeconomic stability and compete in the global economy in the 21st century. The
implementation of the FTA with the European Union was speeded up and is on track. The
privatization of two of the largest cement companies was decisive and successful.  The
momentum should be maintained and privatization moved forwards throughout other sectors of
the economy. Program achievements were less than comprehensive in terms of improving the
regulatory and administrative environment in which enterprises operate.
I.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.   Working closely with the authorities, the Bank has already appraised a second Economic
Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL II) that will consolidate progress made under the first
ECAL. The second ECAL will attempt to reform the banking sector by, among other things,
strengthening banking regulation and cleaning banks' portfolio of bad loans owed by public and
semi-public enterprises. The new operation incorporates the recommendations made by a
government-sponsored Banking Commission created in January 1997. The Bank is also
undertaking a private sector assessment which will help gain a broader understanding of the
private sector in Tunisia, its needs, the remaining impediments it faces in improving its
competitiveness, and whether and when domestic firms are likely to provide the supply response
to the implementation of free trade agreement with the EU. A trade promotion and facilitation
project is under preparation, which, in addition to improving intemational marketing and export
guarantee, will help put in place a trade facilitation system (including an electronic data
interchange system) that would improve the efficiency of Tunisian ports and thus help improve
international competitiveness.  Also, a transport sector loan under preparation will help
consolidate reforms in maritime transport initiated under the ECAL.



11
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The first lesson learned through the program supported by this loan is that there are gains
to be made in fast, yet orderly implementation of structural reforms. In the two program
components that had the greatest success -- trade liberalization and privatization -- the speed of
reform has been faster than in other reform areas. Faster implementation did not however mean
that Tunisian authorities analyzed and implemented reforms with less caution than is
traditionally the case. The Tunisian authorities and the Bank should continue to seek ways to
speed up structural reforms in other areas of the economy.
43.   During program preparation and throughout implementation, the Bank, the IMF and the
EU agreed on a common macroeconomic framework and worked together on policy measures.
The second lesson learned through the operation is that this type of coordination greatly enhances
the relationships between the institutions at the operational level, and can be highly appreciated
by Tunisian authorities -- in fact, the authorities indicated that any follow-up to ECAL should
also be coordinated with the EU. The lesson is heeded in the ECAL II under preparation; the
Bank, the EU and the African Development Bank are working jointly on the Government's
reform program to be supported with loans or grants from these institutions.






13
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial      Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro Policies                      X
Sector Policies                                   X
Financial Objectives                              X
Institutional Development                         X
Physical Objectives                                                               X
Poverty Reduction                                                                 X
Gender Issues                                                                     X
Other Social Objectives                           X
Environmental Objectives                                                          X
Public Sector Management                          X
Private Sector Development          X
Other (Trade Liberalization)        X
B. Project Sustainability         Likely       Unlikely      Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance               Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                    X
Preparation Assistance                            X
Appraisal                           X
Supervision                         X
D. Borrower Performance           Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                         X
Implementation                                    X
Covenant Compliance                               X
E. Assessment of Outcome          Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
x



14
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit      Purpose                          Dalte of    Status
Title                                              Approval
Loan 2754        To support Government's           September Closed June 30, 1989
ASAL             agricultural sector reform program,   1986
Agricultural     focussing on increasing producer
Sector           prices, reducing subsidies on inputs,
Adjustment       strengthening extension and research
Loan             and increasing interest rates.
US$150 M
Loan 2781        To support the initial phase of  February   Closed in December 1989, one
ITPAL Industrial Government's adjustment program   1987      year behind schedule. The
Trade            for the industrial sector, including        fulfillment of certain conditions
and Policy      price and trade liberalization and           (concerning labor issues, the
Adjustment       fiscal reform.                               introduction of a VAT tax and
Loan                                                         the design a foreign exchange
US$150 M                                                      risk system) took longer than
expected.
Loan 2962        To support the medium-term        June       Closed in June 1991, 26 months
SALI Structural   macroeconomic adjustment program   1988     behind schedule. The delay
Adjustment Loan  of the Government and continue the           was due to slow
US$150 M         trade liberalization and foreign             implementation of liberalization
exchange risk coverage reforms              measures, because of a severe
initiated under the ITPAL; reform of        drought, rising unemployment
taxation through introduction of            and declining investment.
VAT and simplification of income
Loan 3109        To support the government's public  July     Closed in June 1993, 2 years
PERL             enterprise reform, including legal  1989     later than planned because of
Public           and institutional reforns; to                slow progress in privatization
Enterprises      reinforce the Government's program           (for fears of social unrest), and
Reform Loan      of divestiture and restructuring.            delays in the preparation of
US$130 M                                                      performance contracts.
Loan 3078        To support the reforms of the     June       Closed in June 1995, 6 months
ASAL II          marketing, institutional and price  1989     later than planned.
Agricultural     framework in agriculture, reorienting
Sector           public investment in agriculture and
Adjustment Loan  improving the management of
US$84 M          natural resources.
Loan 3424        To support efforts to achieve higher   December  Closed in December 1994 as
EFRSL            growth and employment creation,   1991       scheduled
Economic and     restoring internal and external
Financial        balances, after the Gulf war,
Reform           strengthening private sector
Support Loan     development and existing access to
US$250 M         commercial borrowing.                 _       _-



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cvcle                   Date           Date
Planned        Actual/Latest Estimate
Pre-Appraisal                            11/27/95        11/27/95
Appraisal                                2/27/96        2/27/96
Negotiations                             5/2/96          5/2/96
Letter of development policy             6/12/96        6/12/96
Board Presentation                       7/25/96        7/25/96
Signing                                  8/2/96         8/2/96
Effectiveness                            12/6/96        2/2/97
First Tranche                            8/31/96         12/31/96
Second Tranche                           6/30/97        6/3/98
Loan Closing                            1 12/31/97      6/30/98
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual
FY 1997       FY 1998
Appraisal Estimate (US$ millions)       75             75
Actual (US$ millions)                  37.5            75
Actual as % of Estimate                 50            100
Date of Final Disbursement          12/31/1996      6/3/1998
Note: IBRD fiscal year ends on June 30



16
Table 5: Indicators of Project Implementation
Objectives            Actions Taken Before         Actions Before Board         Actions Before Second                     Implementations Status
or During Preparation              Approval                      T'ranche
Macroeconomics
Acceleration in      During the last 5 years, GDP   Adopt a satisfactory       Satisfactory implementation   Tunisia maintained strong GDP growth of 6.9%, 5.4%
economic growth to  incrtased atan annual rateof  medium-term                  of macroeconomic program.    and  5.1%  in real terms in  1996, 1997 and  1998
a 5-6% a year while   43%, but only 3.4%  in 1994,  macroeconomic framework,                                 respectively Inflation remained around 3.7% in 1996 and
improving           because  of a decltne  In  including targets to be                                       1997, and will be slightly lower in 1998.
macroeconomic        1994, both the u flation rate  monitored: - reserves,                                   Export earnings expanded by 6.9%  in 1997 and the
balances and         14,  bot the budget defict ae exteal debt, export growth                                growth rate for manufacturing exports was strong at
economic            (47)adtebde  eii   and fiscal deficit.                                                          Tecretacutdfctwslwrta  h
competitiveness      (2.7%  of GDP) remained                                                                 7.5%. The current account deficit was lower than the
under control.                                                                          ECAI, target by 0.4%..
Foreign direct investment in 1996 and 1997 were close to
1995 GDP growth was only                                                                US$300 million or 1.5%  of GDP, most of which took
2.5%   in  1995,  due  to                                                               place in the energy sector.  In 1998, foreign direct
continued poor results in the                                                           investment soared to US$800 million thanks to the
agricultural sector; inflation                                                          privatization of two cement companies that jointly
reached  6.3%  because  of                                                              generated US$410 million in foreign direct investment.
price  increases  in  food
products. The Fiscal deficit                                                            Reserves were higher than the ECAL target, reaching 3.3
(4.2%  of GDP) was higher                                                               months of imports in 1997 thanks to increased grants
than  planned.    After  a                                                              from the EIJ and better than expected access to foreign
significant improvement in                                                              capital. Tunisia issued Yen  12.5 billion in 20-year
1994, the current account                                                               Samurai bonds with a coupon of 4.35%, as well as notes
deficit deteriorated to 4.0%                                                            and bonds on the Yankee market amounting to US$400
of GDP. The external debt to                                                            million under exceptionally good terms.
GDP ratio was 54.7%, down                                                               Although the debt to GDP ratio was slightly higher than
from  an average of 62.8%                                                               the program  target, it has improved  considerably,
during 1987-94.                                                                         declining from 58% of GDP in 1995 to 54% in 1997.



17
Objectives                 Actions Taken Before   Actions Before Board   Actions Before                      Implementations Status
or During Preparation            Approval            Second Tranche
Fiscal
VAT was introduced in      Introduction of fiscal     Introduction in the 1997     The authorities increased the value added tax rate from 6
Ensure             1988; a new Personal and    measures to compensate the   Finance Law of fiscal      percent to 10 percent for certain petroleum products and
sustainability of  Corporate Income Tax Code  loss in revenues resulting  measures to compensate      to 17 percent for others (notably, unleaded gas and heavy
medium-term fiscal   was promulgated in 1990; a   from tariff and surcharge  losses in revenues due to the    fuels), the minimum rate of taxation for income profits
framework.         unified Investment code was  reductions; extension of  implementation of FTA;       from 10 percent to 15 percent, and included imported
approved in Dec. 1993 (Law   VAT to the retail sector,                             capital goods in the 10 percent VAT rate category. The
no 93-120).                suppression of VAT                                      1997 revenue measures were consolidated in 1998 - with
exemptions for imported                                an increase of the VAT rate from 17 percent to 18 percent
equipment goods; revision of                           for most products (and decrease of the rate from 29
list of activities subject to                          percent to 18 percent for some products); an increase of
VAT rate of 6% (action     Repay the accumulated debts   VAT rate on petroleum products from 10 percent to 18
taken in the 1996 Finance  of the OC and the ONH vis-a-  percent; and an increase of VAT rate on electricity for
law).                      vis the banking system      domestic users from 6 percent to 10 percent.
during 1996; limitation of the
Agreement on a sustainable   budgetary allocations to the     Government decided to repay the arrears that the
fiscal program including (a)   Caisse Generale de       Office des Cereales and Office Nationale de I'Huile had
fiscal measures to         Compensation to 1.7% of     built up vis-a-vis the Banque Nationale Agricole. The
compensate losses in       GDP.                        government received an advance of 960 million dinars
revenues due to the                                     from the Central Bank to settle the arrears. The amount
implementation of FTA; (b)   Reduction of budgetary    will be repaid through the budget over 12 years without
the reimbursement by the   expenditures (net of debt   interest.
State of the accumulated   service) in relation to GDP,    The authorities also increased the administered prices for
debts of the Office des    without prejudice to social  subsidized food products (mainly flour, semolina, and
Cereales (OC) and the Office  expenditures, on the basis of a  milk), and limited the fiscal cost of food subsidies to 1.7
National de l'Huile (ONH)    public expenditure review,  percent of GDP.
vis-a-vis the banking system;  before the end of October
(c) a mechanism through    1996, which will include the
which the State will       revision of the wage bill.
reimburse at the at the end
of each year the accumulated   Submission to the Bank of a    Action plan submitted to the EU and the Bank
debts of these offices vis-a-   study and action plan to
vis the banking system.    harmonize incentives in the
Investment code on the basis
of the new commitments
made under the WTO and
FTA.



18
Objectives           Actions Taken Before   Actions Before Board                Actions Before                      Implementations Status
or During Preparation            Approval                 Second Tranche
Trade
Promote greater     Signing of Free Trade      Submission to the Chamber   Publication in the official  Law no. 96-49 of June 1996 ratified the free trade
integration in the  Agreement (FTA) with the    of Deputies of a draft law  Gazette of the law ratifying  agreement with the EU.
world economy.     European Union (EU), in     conceming the FTA with the  the FTA with the EU.
July 1995.                 EU.
Inclusion in the 1997 finance    Article 21 of the 1997 Finance Law (no 96-113 of
Elimination of quantitative    (a) Implementation of the  law of the tariff reductions  December 30, 1996) introduced the progressive removal
restrictions (QRs) on imports  tariff reductions included in   scheduled up to the second  of tariffs for the period 1996-2007 and considers January
corresponding to 85% of    list No. I of the FTA and   year of application of the FTA   1, 1997 as the beginning of the second year of application
domestic production. (All   their extension to the rest of   and of the scheduied   of the FTA. Article 20 of the same law removed all tariff
remaining QRs will be      the world (action taken in the  elimination in surcharges.  surcharges.
eliminated with the         1996 finance law); (b)     Implementation and
implementation of the FTA).  publication in the official  publication of the tariff
Gazette of a decree reducing   reduction program.
by 10 percentage points all
tariff surcharges on imports;   Agreement on a plan to  The GOT also concluded negotiations with the World
(c) agreement on a schedule   harmonize the structure of  Trade Organization on the complete elimination of
to eliminate the remaining  tariffs imposed on non-     quantitative import restrictions (mainly on cars) by 2001.
tariff surcharges in equal  European imports.           Government also initiated several bilateral agreements to
installments in the Finance                             extend the changes in trade policy under the FTA to its
laws of 1997 and 1998.                                  other non-EU trading partners.



19
Objectiyes            Actions Taken Before         Actions Before Board        Actions Before Second                     Implementations Status
or During Preaatiogn               Approval                     Tranche
Disengagement of the
States
Set up legal and institutional   Govemment brings to the  Government brings to the    Towards the end of 1997 GOT  hired a renowned
Increase the role of    framework for privatization    point of sale (i.e. evaluation    point of sale at least 51% of    international investment firm  to prepare two  large
the private sector in   including; Law 89-9       completion, bidding         the capital of a number of    publicly-owned  cement companies  for  sale  under
the economy;         (definition of public        documents and their         enterprises corresponding to    international competitive bidding procedures. To reach
improve efficiency   enterprises, rationalization of  publication) at least 51% of    50% of net assets of the  the goal of bringing to the point of sale 5 1 % of the
and competitiveness;  institutional responsibility of  the capital of a number of  agreed a list of public  capital of enterprises corresponding to at least 50% of the
strengthen fiscal    selling stocks in blocks     public enterprises          enterprises producing goods    net assets from the list, the GOT placed Jebel Ouest and
balance; deepen      through bids with            corresponding to 50% of net   and services (amounting to  Enfidah, the two biggest cement companies on the list, up
capital markets.     specifications).             assets of the agreed list of  TD 1.413 billion)           for sale in December 1997 and February 1998. As a
public enterprises producing                              result, the GOT was able to fulfill this condition by early
Privatization of 43         goods and services                                        February 1998, bringing to the point of sale much more
enterprises (between 1987   (amounting to TD 1.413                                    than 51% of the capital of enterprises corresponding to
and 1994) worth TD 156      billion).                                                 54% of the net assets of the selected enterprises.
million (about 1% of the
book value of public        Public offering of more than   Public offering of a minimum    In addition, the Bank worked closely with the authorities
enterprises producing goods    10% in the capital of at least   of 10% in the capital of at  to make the privatization process more transparent. As a
and services).              one public enterprise (not   least 5 public enterprises   result of discussions during supervision missions, the
included in the above-      (Offre publique de vente,     GOT has begun publishing sale outcomes and has begun
mentioned list of public    OPV) where the State has a    systematically preparing published articles on the results
enterprises).               majority holding (not included  and impact of the privatization program in local economic
in the above-mentioned list    journals and newspapers.
Prepare indicators on the size  where the total net assets
of public enterprises and   correspond to TD 1.413        20% of Tunisair shares were offered to the public before
their weight in the economy,   million)                   loan approval. After loan approval, at least 10% of shares
distinguishing; (i) public                                of two public enterprises were offered to the public
enterprises in the          Presentation of the program to  through Ofre publique de vente, OPV). Government
competitive sector, (ii)    privatize the remaining 50%   earmarked three other companies for OPV as soon as
strategic public enterprises,    of the agreed list of public  conditions on the stock market were conducive.
and (iii) public institutions.    enterprises and other actions
The indicators should also    to reduce the role of the State
included, for each public   in the medium-term.
enterprise; total and banking
debt, budgetary transfers,
profits or losses.



20
Objectives           Actions Taken Before        Actions Before Board        Actions Before Second                     Implementations Status
or During Preparation             Approval                     Tranche
Deregulation
Submission to the Chamber of  Tulihed  Govcoernment97 i aproed a   nO.fca   97-69t,
Maritime Transport and    The maritime transport                                   Deputies of the legislation  published on October 31, 1997 in the Official Gazette,
Ports                      monopoly of CTN has been                                modifying Articles 6 and 7 of    brogating articles 6 and 7 of law 77-13 of March 1997,
Increase            eliminated and private ship-                            the Law 77-13 with the       thereby abolishing the privileges granted to Tunisian ship-
competitiveness of   owners have been                                       purpose of eliminating the   owners i chartering.
maritime transport   authorized.                                            chartering privileges given to
Tunisian ship-owners.
Adoption of Law 95-33
Improve             concerning deregulation of                              Submission to the Chamber of
competitiveness     cargo handling in ports. As                             Deputies of the modifications
ports.              an exception, Article 10                                to Article 10 of Law 95-33
allows the continuation of                              dated April 14, 1995 in order
the monopoly situation by                               to eliminate the monopoly of   A draft law was presented to the Chamber of Deputies.
STAM in the ports of Tunis,                            the STAM in the ports of      While the loan covenant requires only a modification of
La Goulette & Rades.                                    Tunis, La Goulete and Rades  the 1949 decree "rendering the working conditions of the
and put it in competition with   dockers less complex, more flexible . . .", the authorities
other stevedores.            proposed in the draft law the abrogation in its entirety of
the 1949 decree and thus removing the monopoly of dock
Labor regulations on port    workers in the Tunis ports. The law has neither been
operations: publication in the    passed nor published in the Official Gazetle
Official Gazette of law
modifying Decree of
February 17, 1949,
concerning working
Completion of a study to                                conditions of dock labor to
evaluate the CTN group.                                 render them less complex and
more flexible and adapted to
Start up of the valuation   the requirements of modern
process of STAM             ports.                             Ifhe  restructuring  plan  for  CTN  is  under
implementation and progressing satisfactorily. Four cargo
Starting of a study to prepare  Implementation of the plan to   boats have already been sold to private companies ' 300
a strategy for restructuring  restructure STAM.          employees have been laid off, and some of CTN's lines
the CTN.                    Implementation of the plan to   have been closed to better focus its activities.
restructure CTN.             Restructuring plan for STAM  was delayed due to the
lengthy discussions with the dock workers unions.
Restructuring study started only in December 1997. Initial
draft submitted end-April 1998 was considered incomplete
by the Tunisian authorities and a revised report is to be
submitted.



21
Objectives         Actions Taken Before        Actions Before Board       Actions Before Second                       Implementations Status
or During Preparation             Approval                     Tranche
Maritime Transport    Completion of a study        Possibility to grant       Publication of the regulation  Regulation, pricing, and new tariffs published in a ministerial
and Ports (cont'd)     concerning the fluidity of  concessions (applicable to    concerning port concessions  bylaw
maritime transport.        ports, roads, handling      specifying the pricing and the
operations etc.) for up to 30    management system  applied
years (action taken with Law  to the stevedores in each port
95-73 dated July 95        of the country.
Ministry of Transport
A ministerial bylaws (arrete)                          publishes a ministerial bylaws
published on September 15,                             with the new maximum tariff
1995 (in application of the                            list for cargo handling.
laws 95-32 & 95-33 of April  Begin study on the reform of
14, 1995), indicated the   port regulation reserving for   Presentation to the Chamber
specifics with which all   OPNT the role of public     of Deputies of draft legislation  A law introducing new port regulations and redefining the new
participants in maritime   authority and specifying its   on new port regulations and    regime of maritime domain was submitted to the Chamber of
transport should comply.   attributes as manager of    incorporating the redefinition    Deputies along with the bill concerning OPNT.
public land, guardian of   of functions for OPNT and the
security rules and protector    new regime of maritime
of the port environment,   domain.
Submission to the Chamber of
Deputies of a draft law on  Law approved by the Chamber of Deputies in 1998
multimodal transport.
Publication of decree
Setting up the technical   introducing a "unique        The Government created a national facilitation committee
Trade Facilitation   Preparation of a decree to  Facilitation Committee     document" for customs        composed of all concerned groups. The committee produced the
establish the composition of   (Decree of February 5,  declaration on imports and   single trade document (liasse unique) published as decree no. 97-
Ensure rapid    the Facilitation Committee.    1996).                  exports according to         2470 of the Official Gazette on December 30, 1997.
and cheap       A representative of UTICA                               UNO/EEC norms (as
transit of cargo   has been nominated as this    Issuance of a ministerial  proposed by the technical
in the ports.   head of the Committee.      decision establishing the   committee).
composition of the
Harmonize       Presentation of the terms of   commission preparing the  Submission to the Council of   A decree was signed which simplifies the documentation and
Tunisian        reference for the revision of   draft revisions of the  Ministers of a draft law    ports procedures and brings the customs code up to date and in
customs         the Customs Code.           Customs Code.               revising the Customs Code.    conformity with the EU code.  GOT adopted standardized
regulations with                                                                                    formats for electronic  data exchanges in  external trade
those of the EU.                                                                                    operations.



22
Objectives            Actions Taken Before    Actions Before Board                Actions Before                     Implementations Status
or During Preparation             Approval                  Second Tranche
Telecom                                        Presentation of the          Presentation of a strategy   The authorities presented a liberalization agenda to
Facilitate the                                   orientations of the         note, including proposed     the Bank. The plan proposes selling 10 percent of
development of                                   Government for the          measures, for the             Tunisie Telecom - the public monopoly -by 2002;
telecommunications                               development of the telecom  development of the telecom   liberalizing mobile telephone and paging services
services and                                     sector in the medium-term.    sector in the medium-tern.  in 2000.  The authorities have pointed to the
infrastructure to                                                                                          strategic character of telecommunications to justify
enhance the                                                                                                the overly cautious approach to its liberalization.
competitiveness of
the economy in the
future.
Legal System
Adapt the legal     Govemment progress in       (a) Submission for signature   Submission to the Chamber of  The authorities prepared a  new draft Company
framnework to       reforning legislation        of the decree and preparation   Deputies of a draft law   Code and hired an intemational consulting firm to
encourage and       includes the new law on      of the ministerial bylaws   regarding a new Company       review an earlier draft prepared by Tunisian legal
support economic    rehabilitation of enterprises    (arret) introducing legal  Law.                       experts. The draft Company Code is a vital piece of
competitiveness of   in difficulty, law on national   changes necessary to the                             legislation encompassing over 500 articles which
enterprises.        and intemational arbitration,   structure of the "Centre                               will enable  mergers, acquisitions, and  other
leasing, etc.               d'ctudes judiciaires et                                   corporate groupings, not foreseen. which under the
juridiques" so that the Centre                            previous Tunisian Company law. The Council of
Begin studies to define     provides an open forum to                                 Interministerial Ministers  discussed  the  draft
priorities concerning       better establish the legal                                agreement in May 1998.
legislative reform and      franework supportive of
implementation with a view    competitiveness and to     Submission to the Chamber of
to adapting relevant laws and  include measures to promote   Deputies of a draft law  This measure was combined with condition relating
regulations to new national    and publicize the work of the  regarding Private intemational  to adoption of a new  companies code and is
and intemational economic    Center; (b) submission of the  Law; Submit an agreed "Legal  included in the new draft companies code yet to be
practices.                  terms of reference and hiring   Reform Strategic Action   adopted
of the consultants to prepare   Program".
a "Legal reform Strategic
Action Program".



23
Objectives            Actions Taken Before        Actions Before Board         Actions Before Second                    Implementations Status
or During Preparation              Approval                     Tranche
Labor Market Flexibility
Increase flexibility    Revision of the Labor Code    Agreement on revision to the
of the labor market.  (February 1994) in the areas   Labor Code in order to
of collective agreements,   reduce the time frame
representation of workers in   conceming lay-off
the enterprise, regulatory  procedures for economic
frame-work for conflicts,   reasons.
fixation of fines (dommages
et interes).
Social Charges
Decrease the cost of  Increase of the contribution    Carry out quantitative  Submission to the Chamber of  Bylaw 97-1925 of September 29, 1997 introduced social
labor while         rates paid by workers for    analysis of costs and       Deputies of a draft law       measures for laid off workers
improving workers'  both the private and public    required contribution for a  conceming a limited
protection.         sectors to contain the       guaranteed fund to finance  severance scheme to cover the
financial deterioration of the   the separation packages paid  separation packages paid to
social security system.     to workers laid off for      workers laid of for economic
economic reasons.           reasons.
Tighter controls on early   Presentation of measures to
retirement for the public   create limited system to     Agreement to contain the     Bylaw  97-4 of February 3, 1997 on social security
sector; merging the schemes   cover these separation     social security contribution  fulfilled the condition by fixing the rate of social security
for self-employed workers in  packages.                  rates for the non-agricultural    contribution for the employer at 13 per cent of the wage
the non agricultural and                                 private sector of the general    bill.
agricultural sectors; revision                           scheme, over 1997-1999, in
of the validation system for                             the context of the ongoing
both the private and public                              social security reform (the
sectors and revision of the                              non-agricultural private sector
contribution base.                                      represent 25.75% of the wage
bill)



24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operations Indicators in President 's Report  Rating    Comments
Macroeconomic indicators:
- Budget deficit                            Satisfactory
- International reserves                    Satisfactory
- Exports growth                            Satisfactory
- Current account                           Satisfactory
Trade liberalization:
- Ratification of Free Trade Agreement with EU  Satisfactory
- Reduction of tariff surcharges            Satisfactory
Privatization
- Privatization of agreed share of public   Satisfactory
enterprises
Deregulation/privatization of Maritime transport
and Trade Facilitation:
Deregulation of maritime transport         Unsatisfactory  Report prepared by first consulting
firm was deemed incomplete by
government. A new plan will be
prepared.
Deregulation of ports handling             Unsatisfactory  Negotiations with dockers union
was protracted. Chamber of
Deputies requires time to discuss
and approve draft laws before
publication in Official Gazette.
New customs regulation                     Satisfactory
Liasse unique                              Satisfactory
Code des Socidtes                          Unsatisfactory  Government adopted a
consultative and therefore lengthy
process to draft the new code. The
draft new code is now before the
.   Chamber of Deputies.



25
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose                      Status                 Impact of Study
Draft company code    To replace old company code   Draft submitted to,
and improve the legal and   discussion in, the
incentive structure for firms    Chambers of Deputy
Review and evaluation  To evaluate draft code against  Completed         Recommendations helped
of the draft company    international best practice.                     revise the draft new company
code.                                                                    code.
Telecommunications    To lay down plan to liberalize   Completed         Minimal impact so far; as plan
sector reform strategy   telecom sector                                  is slow
Labor market study   To propose measures to make   Completed             Helped design reforms
the labor market more flexible                     included in policy matrix of
and reduce labor cost while                        program.
protecting workers rights.
Study of port handling   To propose measures to   Completed              Laws have been submitted to
introduce flexibility in port                      Chamber of Deputies based o
and maritime activities and                        study's recommendations
improve incentive structure of
dock workers.
Study on private      To introduce more           Completed              Laws have been submitted to
commercial activities   competition.                                     Chamber of Deputies based on
in port.                                                                 study's recommendations.
Revised Customs Code  To revise customs laws so as   Completed           Approved Implemented
to make them more flexible.
Restructuring plan of   To propose measures to   Complete                Plan has been partially
CTN                  restructure CTN with view to                        implemented.
privatization at a future date.
Restructuring plan of   To propose measures to    First study prepared by    Study to be completed and
STAM                 restructure STAM with view    consulting firm was   implemented.
to privatization at a future  deemed incomplete by
date.                       government. Another
study to be prepared.
Privatization in      To provide a picture on the  Completed             Informed policy measures in
Tunisia              status of privatization in                          the area of privatization.
Tunisia since 1986; as well as
information on existing public
enterprises.
Review of private    To re-evaluate existing law  Completed              Conclusions informed the
international law in  and incentive structures.                          drafting of the new company
Tunisia.                                                                 code.
Study of the impact of  To quantify the potential  Completed             Helped design reform
the free trade       impacts of the FTA                                  measures included in the
agreement with the EU                                                    policy matrix (on trade reform
and fiscal measures).
Harmonization of trade  To provide ground for trade    Completed         Helped reach agreements on
tariff regimes with non  negotiations with non EU                        tariff harmonization with a
EU countries         countries                                           number of non EU countries
Liasse Unique        To propose a single document  Completed             Implemented
normalisee a         for import and exports
l'importation et     formalities.
1'exportation des
marchandises



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ millions)
-Appraisal Estimate         ActualULatest Estimate
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Costs    Costs             Costs   Costs
Item
Balance of Payments                75       75               75        75
Support
TOTAL                              75        75              75        75
Table 8B: Project Finalncing
(US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Costs  Costs              Costs   Costs
Source
IBRD                                 75        75               75        75
Parallel Financing Institutions
European Union          1 20      120              120       120
TOTAL                               195       195              195       195
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreeme      Section    Covenant  Present  Description of covenant                               Comments
nt                     type       status  l
Loan 4069   3.01(a)    9           C      l The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at    No Comment
- TUN                                      the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
Loan 4069   3.01(b)    9           C       Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower    No Comment
- TUN                                       shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
Loan 4069   3.01 (c)    9         C         Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)   No Comment
- TUN                                       of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with
the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or
any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
Loan 4069   3.02(a)    I          C        Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall have the  No Comment
- TUN                                       Deposit Accounts audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Loan 4069   3.02(b)    I          C        Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall furnish to    No Comment
- TUN                                      the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six (6) months after the date of the Bank's request
for such audit, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
Loan 4069   3.02(c)    I           C       Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall furnish to    No Comment
- TIUN                                     the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit
Accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-1)  9          C        Continued maintenance of a satisfactory               See Table 5 on
- TUN                                      macroeconomic framework, consistent with the          Implementation
objectives of the Progran, as determined on the basis of  Status
macroeconomic indicators acceptable to the Borrower
and the Bank.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-2)  12         C         Publication in the Official gazette of the law ratifying  See Table 5 on
- TUN                                      the Free Trade Agreement.                             Implementation
Status
Covenant Type                                   Covenant Type (contd.)                Present Status
1= Accounts/audits                              8 = Indigenous people                 C = Covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/ revenue generation from  9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = Complied with after
beneficiaries                                   10 = Project implementation not covered by  delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds       categories 1-9                        CP = Complied with partially
4= Counterpart funding                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC = not complied with
5= Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agency                                          12 = Sectora] or cross-sectoral
6= Environmental covenants                      Policy/regulatory/institutional action
7= Involuntary resettlement                     13 = Other



28
Table 10 (cont'd): Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section      Covenant  Present   Description of covenant                             Comments
type      status
Loan 4069   2.02(d-3)    12         C         Publication in the Official Gazette of the Borrower's  See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         1997 finance Law including satisfactory provisions on   Implementation
tariff reductions scheduled up to the second year of  Status
application of the Free Trade Agreement and the
related scheduled reductions in surcharges.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-4)    12         CD        Bringing to the point of sale at least fifty-one percent    See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         (51 %) of the capital of a number of enterprises    Implementation
corresponding to fifty percent (50%) of the net assets of  Status
public enterprises producing goods and services
established in a list agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Bank.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-5)    120        C         Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law    See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         amending Articles 6 and 7 of the Borrower's law No.    Implementation
77-13 dated March 7, 1977, so as to abrogate existing    Status
chartering privileges extended to Tunisian ship-owners.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-6)    12         CP        Publication in the Official Gazette of a Law modifying   See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         the Borrower's Decree dated February 17, 1949       Implementation
concerning working conditions of dock labor so as to    Status
render them less complex, and more flexible and
adapted to the requirements of modem ports.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-7)    12         CP        Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law    See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         introducing new port regulations, and incorporating the  Implementation
redefinition of the functions of the Office des Ports  Status
Nationaux Tunisiens and the new regime of maritime
domain.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-8)    12         CP        Implementation of the plan satisfactory to the Bank to    See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         restructure the Borrower's Societe d' Acconage et de    Implementation
Manutention and the Compagnie Tunisienne de        Status
Navigation.                                        ________
Loan 4069   2.02(d-9)    12         C         Publication in the Official gazette of a Decree    See Table 5 on
- TUN                                         mandating the use of, and setting forth the standard  Implementation
format for, an unique document (document unique) for   Status
customs declaration on imports and exports.
Loan 4069   2.02(d-10)   12         C          Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law    See Table 5 on
- TUN                                                    introducing a Company Code.              Implementation
Status
Covenant Type                                  Covenant Type (contd.)                Present Status
1= Accounts/audits                             8 = Indigenous people                C = Covenant complied with
2= Financial performance/ revenue generation from  9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = Complied with after
beneficiaries                                  10 = Project implementation not covered by  delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds      categories 1-9                        CP  Complied with partially
4= Counterpart funding                         11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC = not complied with
5= Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agency                                         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6= Environmental covenants                     Policy/regulatory/institutional action
7= Involuntary resettlement                    13 = Other



29
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title        Description and comment on lack of
compliance
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Statements in
Operational Manual was observed under the project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle   [      Planned          | Revised                    Actual
Weeks  US$ (Thousands)   Weeks   US$ (Thousands)   Weeks   US$ (Thousands)
Preparation to appraisal                                                                    578.4
Appraisal-to Board                                                              20.7         70.8
Negotiations through                                                            6.0           16.0
Board Approval
Supervision              20.0         101.5         2.4          115.2          74.3         248.5
Completion               6.0          29.0          6.0           29.0          6.0          29.0
TOTAL                                _       _   __               _ __         259.5         942.7
Source: World Bank Management Information System.
Note: (*) Preparation time and cost reflected here include work done before September 1995 but not incorporated in the
ECAL.
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of    Month/ No. of   Days in   Specialized Staff Skills      Performance Rating          Type of
Project     year    Persons  the Field   Represented                                            Problems
Cycle                                                               Implementa-  Development
tion Status    Objectives
Pre-        11/95    11       110        Economists (3)
Appraisal                                Privatization Specialists (1)
Financial Sector Spec. (2)
Maritime Transport Spec. (2)
Labor Market Specialist (1)
Legal Reformn Specialist (2)
Appraisal    2/96    8        56         Economists (2)
Privatization Specialists (2)
Financial Sector Spec. (2)
Telecom Specialist (1)
Maritime Transport Spec. (1)
Supervision  5/97    2        22         Economists (2)             S            5
11/97   4        20         Economists (2)             S             S
Financial Sector Spec. (1)
Maritime Transport Spec. (1)
12/97   2        8          Maritime Transport Spec. (1)  S          S
Privatization Specialist (1)
5/98    1         5         Economist (1)               S            S



