Report No. PIC3645
Project Name                      Tunisia-Economic Competitiveness
Adjustment Loan (ECAL)
Region                            Middle East and North Africa
Sector                            Economic Management
Project ID                        TNPA42287
Borrower                          Republic of Tunisia
Principal Responsible Agency      Ministry of International Cooperation
and Foreign Investment
Contact                           Mr. K. Ben Rejeb, Director General
Ministry of International Cooperation
Tel: 011.216.1.798.522
Fax: 011.216.1.799.069
Date this PID prepared            April 1996
Projected Board Date              June 1996
Country Background
1.    Since 1986, when a decline in oil export earnings and excessive
levels of public sector investments brought the country close to a
balance of payments crisis, the Government of Tunisia has consistently
and successfully pursued a program of macroeconomic stabilization and
adjustment. The Bank supported this program through six adjustment
loans, the most recent of which, the Economic and Financial Reform
Support Loan (EFRSL), helped the country to overcome the aftermath of
the Gulf war in 1991. In 1986, the IMF provided support with a Stand-by
Arrangement followed, in 1988, by an Extended Arrangement. All the Bank
and IMF programs were successfully concluded and are closed. The
reforms have aimed at liberalizing the economy, which had been highly
controlled, removing major distortions arising from taxes and subsidies,
improving the allocation of resources and reducing the role of the
public sector. The objectives of the reforms were substantially
achieved, and their gradual implementation minimized social disruptions
and conflicts.   Moreover, the Government consistently pursued prudent
macroeconomic management policies, leading to sound macroeconomic
balances.
Recent developments
2.    Real GDP increased only by 3.5% in 1995, because of a 10%
contraction in the agricultural sector due to the continuation of the
drought, and a reduction in fixed investments. Inflation remained under
control in spite of increases in the price of agricultural products. A
shortfall in revenues, due to a prolonged stagnation in economic
activity, resulted in a budget deficit higher than expected, 2.9% of
GDP. Private sector investments continued a two-year decline.
Investment decisions may have been delayed by the uncertainty
surrounding the beginning of the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the EU.
The introduction in the 1996 Finance law of measures to accelerate the



implementation of the FTA through the elimination of import duties on
equipment goods, is expected to have positive effects on investment in
the near future.
3.    While sound, the external balances remain vulnerable. After a
remarkable improvement in 1994 (see 1/), the current account deficit
rose to 4.0- of GDP in 1995 because of a slowdown in the exports of
olive oil and a drought-induced increase in cereals imports. However,
the growth of manufactured exports remained strong, 7.6w in volume
terms. External reserves reached 2.6 months of imports in 1995. The
stock of external debt stood at 54.3w of GDP in    1995, down from an
average of 63.7T during the period 1987-93. The debt service ratio also
decreased steadily in the past five years, thanks to rapid export
growth. The Government was also successful in penetrating recently the
international capital market.
The Free Trade Agreement
4.    Tunisia was the first country in the North-Africa and Middle East
Region to sign an FTA with the EU. The objective of the FTA, which
complements the recent agreement under the GATT, is to fully integrate
the economies of Tunisia and the EU through free movements of goods, and
legislative, social and financial cooperation. Under the FTA, tariffs
on imports (excluding agricultural goods) will be progressively
eliminated over a 12 year period, starting with those on capital and
intermediate goods and only subsequently (four years after the entry
into force of the FTA) on most consumer goods. Although the transition
to free trade is stretched out, the FTA is a major policy initiative for
Tunisia. Its credibility is enhanced by the binding nature of the
commitment, and by the implicit linkage between the financial assistance
that the EU will provide in the coming years and the implementation of
the reforms.
5.    The benefits of the FTA and GATT agreements are potentially very
large: import competition will induce enterprises to increase their
efficiency and allocate resources where Tunisia has a comparative
advantage; an improved regulatory environment, harmonized with the
European one, will attract foreign investors; and the security of market
access for Tunisian exports will be reinforced. There remains an issue
of losses as a result of trade diversion, which is not, however, very
important as trade with Europe accounts for about 75t of Tunisia's
foreign trade. While envisaging unilateral liberalization against the
rest of the world in the longer run, the Government believes that the
benefits provided by the FTA are greater than those that would come from
total liberalization: the FTA offers a credible anchor to economic
reforms; it includes the harmonization of regulatory regimes pertaining
to product standards, testing and certification procedures, legal
framework etc.; it allows agreements on anti-dumping actions; and it
involves significant financial and technical assistance.
- 2 -



The Proposed Loan
Objectives and Description
6.    In the coming years Tunisia will need to: a) improve the
international competitiveness of the economy; b) modernize services
provision; and c) preserve the environment and improve the management of
natural resources. The Government recognizes that these are the key
conditions to increase economic growth and achieve full integration in
the world economy.
7.    The proposed Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL) would
support a reform program aimed at achieving a sustainable increase in
the rate of economic growth while improving the international
competitiveness of the economy. The ECAL is the first among a series of
operations to upgrade the private sector and to prepare it for the
establishment of free trade under the implementation of the FTA. It has
been prepared in cooperation with the EU and in collaboration with the
IMF. The specific policy measures concern the following areas: a) a
sound macroeconomic and fiscal framework, including measures to replace
revenues lost from the expected reduction in tariffs and tariff
surcharges; b) the acceleration in the implementation of the FTA; c) the
acceleration of the privatization program in competitive sectors; d) the
improvement of the regulatory and administrative environment in which
enterprises work, including actions to reduce transport costs, to
facilitate the passage of goods through ports and customs and to improve
the legislative framework; and e) a greater flexibility in the labor
market while protecting dismissed workers and containing labor costs.
Project Cost and Financing
8.    The proposed Bank loan is tentatively placed at US$75 million, with
cofinancing from the European Union.
Project Implementation
9.    The borrower will be the Government of Tunisia.    The loan will be
made on a two tranche basis. The first tranche of US$40 million will be
eligible for disbursement upon effectiveness. The second tranche of
US$35 million will be conditional upon satisfactory macroeconomic
performance and a limited number of specific measures. The projected
date for second tranche release would be 12 months after loan
effectiveness.
Program Objective Category
10.   The overall impact on poverty of the reform program supported by
the ECAL is expected to be positive as improvements in macroeconomic
balances and in the performance of the private sector would create new
jobs and expand employment. Losses of jobs may however occur in the
short term. The Government is preparing, with Bank support, an
Employment and Training Project to facilitate the placement of
unemployed people and to increase the productivity of existing workers.
The ECAL would also support the creation of a fund providing severance
packages to the workers of insolvent firms. The fiscal adjustments that
-3 -



will occur under the loan will not affect social expenditure. The
European Union is also helping the authorities to improve the design and
management of the existing social safety net.
Benefits and Risks
11.   The principal benefits that would derive from the implementation of
the reform program supported by the Loan would be: a) to increase the
efficiency of resource allocation in the economy and the productivity of
the private sector; b) to facilitate the integration of Tunisia with
world markets; and c) to strengthen Tunisia's balance of payments and to
consolidate its access to private capital markets. Two main risks are
associated with the proposed loan. First, there could be delays in the
ratification of the FTA by some European countries which, in turn, could
entail a postponement of the trade liberalization program. Although the
probability associated with this risk is certainly positive, the
Government's early implementation of the FTA, starting in January 1996,
makes this risk manageable. Moreover, the last ten years show that the
Government's commitment to the reforms has remained firm even during
prolonged droughts and political crisis in the region. The second risk
relates to the difficult implementation of labor market reforms, in
particular the legislation related to the status of dock workers, that
are essential to allow a fast restructuring of private enterprises and
an increase in productivity. Although a careful handling of these
reforms will be necessary, the risk of not succeeding is low because of
i) the ability of the Government to build consensus among the parties
interested in the reforms, and ii) the existing social safety net and
the additional measures that will be put in place to protect the welfare
of dismissed workers.
Environmental Assessment
12.   The project is consistent with the Bank's environmental policies
and will follow accepted Bank procedures concerning the environment. It
is expected that this project will be classified under category C (no
significant environmental impact).
1/ This was due to a slow import growth, a sharp increase in the exports
of olive oil and a good tourism season.
Contact Point:              Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



