Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4069 TUN
                              Loan Agreement
                (Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated August 2, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4069 TUN
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 13, 1996, from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to improve the international competitiveness of the Borrower's
economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance
from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and
     (B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by
making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, is modified to read:
          " 'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble
          to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is
Page  2
          made.";
     (b)  Section 4.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the
          currency of the deposit accounts specified in Section 2.02
          (a) of the Loan Agreement.";
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
     (d)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c)  Not later than six (6) months after the Closing
               Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
               purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower
               shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
               request, on the execution of the program referred to in
               the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by
               the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations
               under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
               purposes of the Loan."; and
     (e)  Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, as Sections 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Free Trade Agreement" means the Free Trade Agreement con-
cluded on July 17, 1995 between the Borrower and the European Union;
     (b)  "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "Deposit Account" means an account referred to in Section
2.02 (a) of this Agreement; and "Deposit Accounts" means the five
Deposit Accounts collectively;
     (d)  "Dollar Loan Tranche" means the amount specified in Section
2.01 (a) of this Agreement;
     (e)  "Deutsche Mark " and "DEM" means each the lawful currency of
the Federal Republic of Germany;
     (f)  "French Franc" and "FRF" means each the lawful currency of
the Republic of France;
     (g)  "French Franc Loan Tranche" means the amount specified in
Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding
to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period commences on January
1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar year;
     (i)  "Loan Tranche" means either the Dollar Loan Tranche or the
French Franc Loan Tranche;
     (j)  "Pound Sterling" and "GBP" means each the lawful currency of
the United Kingdom;
     (k)  "Official Gazette" means the Borrower's Journal Officiel; and
     (l)  "Yen" and "JPY" means each the lawful currency of Japan.
                                ARTICLE II
Page  3
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement:
     (a)  an amount equal to thirty-seven million five hundred thousand
Dollars ($37,500,000); and
     (b)  an amount equal to one hundred ninety three million nine
hundred thousand French Francs (FRF193,900,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to
the Bank the first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and
thereafter maintain in its Central Bank, one (1) deposit account in
each, respectively, of Dollars, Deutsche Marks, French Francs, Pounds
Sterling and Yens, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Each withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
into the Deposit Account denominated in the currency in which such
withdrawal is requested.
     (b)  Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Deposit
Accounts in support of the Program.
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Accounts an
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall
so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the
Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for
cancellation.
     (d)  No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
shall have reached the equivalent of $37,500,000, unless the Bank shall
be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01
of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (ii) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken. If, after said exchange of views, the Bank
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and
actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of a Loan Tranche not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of each Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding from time to time
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of each
Loan Tranche in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                            Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Accounts audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the date of the Bank's request for such
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
Deposit Accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested.
                                ARTICLE IV
                     Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE V
                               Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign
Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of International Cooperation
            and Foreign Investment
          149, Avenue de la Libert
          1002 Tunis-Le Belvdre
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:           Telex:
Page  5
               MCIIE               18060
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                    By /s/ Azouz Ennifar
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ John Underwood
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                           Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of
the Loan shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other than
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance under another loan or a credit;
3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups
of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.
3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
     Group          Subgroup      Description of Items
     112                --        Alcoholic beverages
     121                --        Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                  tobacco refuse
Page  6
     122                --        Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                  or not containing tobacco
                                  substitutes)
     525                --        Radioactive and  associated materials
     667                --        Pearls, precious and semiprecious
                                  stones, unworked or worked
     718            718.7         Nuclear reactors, and  parts
                                  thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
                                  non-irradiated for nuclear reactors
     728                --        Tobacco processing machinery
     897            897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                  platinum group metals (except
                                  watches and watch cases) and
                                  goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
                                  (including set gems)
     971                --        Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                  gold ores and concentrates)
4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods,
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws
of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is
a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
                              SCHEDULE 2
              Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.   General Definitions
     For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period,
the aggregate principal amount of a Loan Tranche withdrawn from the Loan
Account in such Interest Period.
     (b)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment date to, but excluding, the next
following Interest Payment Date.
     (c)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (d)  "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first
day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which
such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.   Interest
1.   The principal amount of each Loan Tranche shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount of
a Loan Tranche outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate
from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.   (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, interest on
Page  7
each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  LIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount of the
Dollar Loan Tranche until final repayment thereof, interest on such
Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  Dollar Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  Dollar Fixed Total Spread.
     (c)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed
Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche withdrawn and outstanding, to
but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the
applicable:
          (i)  PIBOR Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  PIBOR Total Spread.
     (d)  From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount of the
French Franc Loan Tranche until final repayment thereof, interest on
such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
          (i)  French franc Fixed Base Rate; plus
         (ii)  French franc Fixed Total Spread.
3.   For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have
the following meanings:
     (a)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is withdrawn, the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment
Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (b)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrow-
               ings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
               single currency loans or portions thereof made by it
               that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
               Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (c)  "Dollar Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount of
the Dollar Loan Tranche, the equivalent of the London interbank offered
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date
for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment
installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (d)  "Dollar Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount
of the Dollar Loan Tranche:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
Page  8
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
               Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
               the London interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
               outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date
               for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (e)  "PIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a
Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is withdrawn, the
Paris interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in French Francs
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of
the initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
     (f)  "PIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which
each Disbursed Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche is withdrawn:
          (i)  one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
               Interest Period, below (or above) the Paris interbank
               offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
               deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrow-
               ings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund
               single currency loans or portions thereof made by it
               that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest
               Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
percentage per annum.
     (g)  "French Franc Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount
of the French Franc Loan Tranche, the equivalent of the Paris interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in French Franc for value on the
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed
interest rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably deter-
mined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (h)  "French Franc Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed
Amount of the French Franc Loan Tranche:
          (i)  one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
         (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate
               Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above)
               the Paris interbank offered rates, or other reference
               rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's
               outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated to
               fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by
               it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
        (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
               Date for such Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum.
4.   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total
Spread, Dollar Fixed Base Rate and Dollar Fixed Total Spread applicable
to each Disbursed Amount of the Dollar Loan Tranche, and of PIBOR Base
Rate, PIBOR Total Spread, French Franc Fixed Base Rate and French Franc
Page  9
Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount of the French
Franc Loan Tranche, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the
Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole
and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applic-
able to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto,
in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.   Repayment
1.   Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of each Loan Tranche in
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15,
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) Interest
Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth
(24th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be one-eighteenth (1/18th) of
such Disbursed Amount.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if
any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount of either Loan
Tranche would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after September 15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on said
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.   After each Disbursed Amount of a Loan Tranche shall have been
withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the
amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d)
                         of this Agreement
1.   Continued maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework,
consistent with the objectives of the Program, as determined on the
basis of macroeconomic indicators acceptable to the Borrower and
the Bank.
2.   Publication in the Official Gazette of the law ratifying the Free
Trade Agreement.
3.   Publication in the Official Gazette of the Borrower's 1997 Finance
Law including satisfactory provisions on tariff reductions scheduled up
to the second year of application of the Free Trade Agreement and the
related scheduled reductions in surcharges.
4.   Bringing to the point of sale at least fifty-one percent (51%) of
the capital of a number of enterprises corresponding to fifty percent
(50%) of the net assets of public enterprises producing goods and
services established in a list agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank.
5.   Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law amending
Articles 6 and 7 of the Borrower's Law No. 77-13 dated March 7, 1977,
so as to abrogate existing chartering privileges extended to Tunisian
shipowners.
6.   Publication in the Official Gazette of a Law modifying the
Borrower's Decree dated February 17, 1949 concerning working condi-
tions of dock labour so as to render them less complex, and more
flexible and adapted to the requirements of modern ports.
7.   Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law introducing
Page  10
new port regulations, and incorporating the redefinition of the
functions of the Office des Ports Nationaux Tunisiens and the new
regime of maritime domain.
8.   Implementation of the plan satisfactory to the Bank to restructure
the Borrower's Socit d'Acconage et de Manutention and the Compagnie
Tunisienne de Navigation.
9.   Publication in the Official Gazette of a Decree mandating the use
of, and setting forth the standard format for, an unique document
(document unique) for customs declaration on imports and exports.
10.  Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law introducing
a Company Code.
