Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13600-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 6, 1995
Environment and Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
Arg$1  =    US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCU         -     Central Coordinating Unit
(Unidad de Coordinaci6n Central)
EA          -     Environmental Assessment
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
1DB         -     Inter-American Development Bank
IERR        -     Internal Economic Rate of Return
INDEC       -      National Institute for Statistics and Census
(Insntuto Nacional de Estadtsticas y Censos)
IS          -     Institutional Strengthening
MDF         -     Municipal Development Fund
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PEU         -     Provincial Executing Unit
POM         -     Project Operations Manual
PPAR        -     Project Performance Audit Report
PRAM        -     Brazil Parana Market Towns Project
SDS         -     Secretariat of Social Development of the Presidency
(Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social de la Presidencia)
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditures
SV          -     Under Secretariat of Housing
(Sub-Secretarfa de Vivienda)
VAT         -     Value-Added Tax



ARGENTINA
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PageNo.
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY   ...........................    i
I.  THE  SECTOR   .......................................   1
Background   ......................................   1
Government Structure for Provision of Public Services  ............   2
Sector Development Issues and Objectives ....................   3
Public Sector Financing and Intergovemmental Fiscal Relations ...                        ....   4
The Efficiency and Equity of the Intergovernmental Transfer
System    ................................   4
Provincial Revenues .............................   5
Provincial to Municipal Revenue Transfers  ...............   6
Municipal Own-Source Revenues .....................   7
Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement ..............   7
Lessons from  Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector ............   8
II. THE PROJECT ...................................... 10
Project Origins .................................... 10
Project Objectives .................................. 10
Project Components  ................................. 11
Eligibility Criteria .................................. 11
Provincial Eligibility Criteria ....................... 11
Municipal Eligibility Criteria ........................ 13
Subproject Eligibility Criteria ........................ 14
Project Costs ............................                                                      15
Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Province   ........                       ............  16
Financing Plan  .................................... 18
Implementation Arrangements .....................                                               19
Procurement ..................... 21
Disbursement ..................... 23
Accounts and Audits ..................... 25
Financial Impact ..................... 26
Economic Impact ............................ ....... 26
Poverty Impact .................................... 27
Environmental Impact ............. 27
Risks and Safeguards ............. 27
HI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                                                ....... 29
Assurances ....................................... 29
Conditions of Effectiveness  .............................  30
Condition of Disbutrse nt  ..............................  31
Recommendation ................................... 32



ANNEXES           ........................................... 32
A. Previous Bank Experience in the Sector  ................... 33
B. Population Growth and Distribution  ...................... 38
C. Demand for Municipal Infrastructure  ..................... 43
D. Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations  ...................... 45
E. Initial Allocation and Commitment Fees by Province  ...                    ........ 54
F. Economic Analysis  ................................ 58
G. Implementation and Supervision Arrangements ............... 61
H. Disbursement Schedule  ............................. 65
I. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  ...                  ....... 66
MAP IBRD No. 26342
LIST OF TABLES
Table 2.1:  Estimated Program  Costs .......................  16
Table 2.2:  Initial Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Province  ...                 ......  17
Table 2.3:  Financing Plan  ............................. 18
Table 2.4:  Procurement Method by Category   ................. 22
Table 2.5:  Procurement Prior Review  and SOE Thresholds  ...                    ...... 23
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to Argentina from June 21
to July 8, 1994 and was drafted in the field. The mission comprised: Messrs/Mmes. Mario
Rothschild (Mission Leader and Sr. Urban Specialist); David Vetter (Sr. Urban Specialist); Miguel
Mercado-Diaz (Operations Analyst); Craig Leisher (Writer and Editor); and Carlos Ramirez, Gunnar
Stahre, and Cecilia Zanetta (Consultants). Messrs. Asif Faiz, Orville Grimes and Gobind T.
Nankani are respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and Department Director.
The peer reviewers were Messrs. Yoshine Uchimura, EC4HM, James Hicks, TWURD and William
Dillinger, LAlEU.



ARGENTINA
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Argentine Republic.
Implementing
Agencies:      Provinces of Buenos Aires, Catamarca, C6rdoba, Corrientes, Formosa,
La Rioja, La Pampa, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Santa Cruz, Santa
Fe and Tierra del Fuego; and the eligible municipalities in these
provinces.
Beneficiaries:   Approximately 900 municipalities in 13 provinces.
Poverty:       Not applicable.
Amount:        US$210 million equivalent (including up to US$21 million in retroactive
financing).
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
including 5 years of grace.
Commitment
Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending
Terms:         All proceeds of the loan would be onlent to provincial governments from
the Central Government under the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan. The provinces would assume the cross-currency exchange risk and
would pay a onetime service charge of up to 2.5 percent of the loan
amount to cover the costs of a Central Coordinating Unit. With the
exception of amounts up to 5 percent of the loan, which may be used by
the provinces to finance technical assistance, all proceeds of the Bank
loan would be onlent from provinces to municipalities in US dollars and
or. harder terms, with a maximum of 10 years repayment, including up
to one year of grace, and a spread of at least 1.5 percentage points over
the interest rate paid by provinces to the Central Government.
Plnancing
Plan:          See para. 2.28
Rate of
Return:        19.7% for an estimated 54 percent of total project cost.



- ii -
Staff
Appraisal
Report:        No. 13600-AR, dated March 6, 1995.
Map:           IBRD No. 26342.



ARGENTINA
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Background
1.1   The move toward a more efficient, equitable and fiscally responsible
federalism is a key element in Argentina's macroeconomic strategy. Following
a policy of decentralization, Argentine public services are to be provided at the
most decentralized level consistent with providing the service efficiently. In this
context, provinces have decentralized or are planning to decentralize services to
municipalities if these municipalities can provide them more efficiently. Current
legislation establishes municipal responsibility for a number of services,
including the paving and maintenance of streets and local roads, water and
sewerage, refuse collection, and some health, education and other community
facilities (para. 1.9).
1.2   The municipal public sector is large and growing in Argentina, with
expenditures of about 3.5% of GDP. Transfers from provincial to municipal
governments have doubled, increasing from US$1.4 billion in 1991 to US$2.8
billion in 1993. These transfers represented about 1% of national GDP and
11% of total provincial spending in 1993, ranking second after salaries.
Population Growth and Distribution
1.3   Argentina is one of the most urbanized countries in Latin America, with
the unique characteristic that urbanization was well advanced before World
War I. In 1991, 87% of the total population lived in urban areas of 2,000 or
more inhabitants. Despite its high level of urbanization, Argentina is still
experiencing significant growth in its urban population, which grew from 23.2
million in 1980 to 28.4 million in 1991 (1.85% per year). Conversely, the rural
population has decreased at a rate of 0.82% per year over the same period
(Annex B).
1.4   The 13 provinces participating in the proposed project represent 70% of
the total population. These provinces can be divided by size into two major
groups: (a) four highly-populated provinces (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Mendoza
and Santa Fe) with 19.6 million inhabitants (60% of the total Argentine
population); and (b) nine less-populated provinces (Catamarca, Corrientes,
Formosa, La Pampa, La Rioja, Misiones, Neuquen, Santa Cruz and Tierra del
Fuego) with 3.3 million inhabitants (only 10% of the total population).
1.5   The extreme diversity of the provinces of Argentina in terms of
population can be seen by comparing the largest province with one of the



smallest: Buenos Aires and Santa Cruz. The population of the Province of
Buenos Aires (12.6 million in 1991) is about equal to that of Chile, but lives in
an area about the size of Italy with a density of 41 people per square kilometer.
On the other hand, in the Province of Santa Cruz 160,000 inhabitants live in an
area the size of the United Kingdom, giving the province a population density
of less than one person per square kilometer. Although the percentage of poor
households is higher in the provinces with smaller populations, over half of the
total number of poor households are in the three largest provinces - Buenos
Aires, C6rdoba and Santa Fe - and 42% of the Argentine population lives in
the capitals of these provinces (the Buenos Aires, C6rdoba and Santa Fe
metropolitan areas). The distribution of municipalities follows a similar pattern,
with 68% of all municipalities covered by the proposed project located in the
same three provinces.
Unmet Demand for Basic Municipal Infrastructure
1.6   During the years of Argentine macroeconomic instability, investment in
basic municipal infrastructure lagged far behind the needs of the population.
For example, the number of households without paved streets in the capitals of
Buenos Aires (13 million inhabitants in 1991) and Santa Cruz (145,000
inhabitants) has increased by 25% and 15% respectively over the last decade.
1.7   The potential demand for basic municipal infrastructure was estimated
from a representative sample survey. In the 13 provinces, total potential
demand is approximately US$1.3 billion, of which 90% are subprojects under
US$1.5 million. Most of the subprojects identified are in the street paving and
sanitation sectors, which account for 31 % (US$406 million) and 21% (US$281
million), respectively.
B. Government Structure for Provision of Public Services
1.8   Argentina has a federal system of government with three levels: central,
provincial and municipal. Until the adoption of the Federal Constitution of
1853, provinces were sovereign in their own right. Through this Constitution,
provinces surrendered wide-ranging powers to the Central Government, but all
powers not explicitly relinquished to the center remain with the provinces.
Argentina's 23 provinces are autonomous entities governed by their own
constitutions. Although the Federal Constitution establishes that municipalities
should be independent from other levels of government, each provincial
constitution provides the basic framework for its municipal governments and
requires a Municipal Code (Ley Orgdnica Municipal) that establishes specific
municipal responsibilities for service provision and sources of revenue.



- 3 -
1.9   Since 1991, the Central Government has assigned responsibility for
provision of some additional services to provincial governments (e.g., primary
and secondary education, and health care). In some cases, the provinces have,
in turn, passed on these and other responsibilities to municipalities.
Responsibilities for service provision may be illustrated as follows: exclusively
Central Government - defense, foreign affairs, inter-province transportation
and trade regulation, mail and telecommunications; Central and provincial
govermnents - higher education, preventive health, justice, security, economic
development, major passenger and cargo terminals, housing, electric and gas
energy; provincial and municipal governments - elementary and secondary
education, health care, water and sewerage, regional and local roads, and fire
control; and predominantly municipal governments - solid waste collection
and disposal, local streets and drainage, parks, markets, cemeteries, and land
use planning and control.
1.10 As Argentina's decentralization program progresses, there is a continuing
need to confirm that the assignment of responsibilities for the provision of
services is clearly and unambiguously defined among the different levels of
government. Currently, the central to provincial relationship has relatively well-
defined areas of responsibility for the provision of services. It is the provincial
to municipal relationship where the responsibilities could be more ambiguous.
C. Sector Development Issues and Objectives
1.11  Issues and objectives in the urban sector are primarily those related to
enhanced resource mobilization and increased public sector efficiency. A key
national objective is to mobilize resources for needed public investments and
recurrent costs in a manner that will reduce deficit financing and inflationary
pressures. An effective way to meet this objective is to transfer, to the
maximum extent possible, the full financing burden for public investments and
recurrent costs to their direct beneficiaries.  The central and provincial
govemments have limited potential to recover costs directly from beneficiaries.
At the municipal government level, however, there is substantial potential,
frequently under-utilized, for direct cost recovery from beneficiaries.
Furthermore, as the Central Government's decentralization policy proceeds, this
potential should increase. Instruments for improved municipal direct cost
recovery include betterment levies, connection fees, user charges, concessions
and rents. To the extent that these direct cost recovery mechanisms can be
improved and expanded, municipal governments would contribute substantially
to national objectives of resource mobilization in a non-deficit and non-
inflationary manner.
1.12 The resource mobilization objective is closely linked to the objective of
improved public sector management and efficiency. To effectively mobilize



resources, municipal govemments must enhance their capacity to plan, program
and budget for capital improvements programs, as well as for operation and
maintenance of facilities. Effective decentralization and improvement of public
sector management at the subnational level depend greatly on the clarification
of the respective expenditure responsibilities of provinces and municipalities as
well as assignment of revenues to meet these responsibilities. There are at least
three key issues for successful implementation of these improvements: (a) how
to achieve greater predictability of, and control over, the volume of annual
transfers to the provinces and municipalities; (b) how to achieve better public
responsibility for the resources transferred; and (c) how to encourage efficiency
reforms in provincial and local governments in areas such as planning,
budgeting and financial programming.
1.13 All of the above are linked to the issue of accountability. The main
barrier to improving provincial fiscal performance is the lack of accountability
at both the provincial and municipal levels. This stems from the strong central
financing of provincial expenditures and from a high level of provincial
financing of municipal expenditures. The result is a lack of incentive for
provincial and municipal authorities to confront their citizens with the costs of
their preferences.  The lack of accountability undermines incentives for
provincial and municipal fiscal balance and for provincial and municipal
expenditure efficiency.
D. Public Sector Financing and Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
1.14 Both provincial and municipal governments in Argentina are highly
dependent upon transfers from  higher govemmental levels.  The central
government transfers resources to the provinces through automatic revenue
sharing and discretionary grants. The provinces, in turn, are required by the
national revenue law to transfer part of the resources down to their
municipalities via automatic revenue sharing. In addition, most provinces also
transfer shares of their own taxes to the municipalities via automatic revenue
sharing, and may provide discretionary grants to municipalities. Thus, in the
Argentine system, provincial revenues in large part determine municipal
revenues.
The Efficiency and Equity of the Intergovernmental Transfer System
1.15 With regard to the impact of national to provincial transfers, a recent
Bank study concluded that the regional redistribution of income probably has
been excessive in Argentina.  Although data are lacking to evaluate the
efficiency of provincial expenditure programs (e.g., education, health, and
transport), there is evidence that serious inefficiencies exist regarding types of
expenditure, especially for salaries.



1.16 The issue is, then, less the amount of provincial revenues than in how
efficiently existing revenues are allocated. To address the issue of expenditure
efficiency, the criterion of the accountability at the provincial level must be
examined. While the more developed provinces must confront their citizens
with over half the cost of financing their expenditures, provincial authorities of
the less developed provinces have a much lower political cost, as more than
75% (90% in the case of underdeveloped provinces) of the fiscal burden for
financing their expenditures falls on the payers of central government taxes.
The combination of low own-source fiscal effort and of large, generally untied
(block) fiscal transfers provides little accountability for many provincial
officials, either to their own citizens or to the payers of national taxes. This
lack of accountability provides little incentive for an efficient allocation of
resources in most provinces.  As shown below  (para. 1.21), municipal
dependence on provincial transfers is also relatively high, creating this same
lack of accountability on the part of municipal officials.
Provincial Revenues
1.17 Due to the impact of macroeconomic stability on national and provincial
revenues, total provincial revenues (including both own-source and transfers
from the national govemment) jumped from US$14.3 billion in 1990 to
US$24.7 billion in 1993. In 1993, national to provincial automatic revenue
sharing under the national law (hereafter, coparticipaci6n) reached US$10.4
billion (with a total of US$14.3 billion for all automatic transfers and
discretionary grants from the national government), and provincial own-source
current revenues were US$10.4 billion. While of diminishing importance,
discretionary transfers from the national government to finance provincial
deficits and investments have been particularly insidious in rewarding poor fiscal
performers among the provinces and have significantly distorted resource
allocation. Although the Central Government has explicitly sought to diminish
their size, discretionary transfers still represented about 8% of total provincial
revenues in 1992 versus 19% in 1987 and remain important sources of revenue
for many smaller provinces.
1.18 National transfers financed on average 59% of total provincial spending
in 1992, ranging from a high of 92% of total expenditures in La Rioja to a low
of 50% of spending in Buenos Aires. As mentioned above, this high provincial
dependence on transfers of federal revenues has direct and important impacts on
municipal revenues, as national coparticipaci6n resources are automatically
shared with municipalities and can also be used for discretionary transfers to the
municipalities.
1.19 The prevailing national coparticipacion law allocates to the provinces
57.0% of the most important taxes collected, such as the value-added tax



- 6 -
(VAT), income and asset taxes, and excise and fuel taxes. In August 1993, a
floor of US$745 million per month was set on these transfers. Secondary
distribution of coparticipacion revenues among provinces, codified by the
coparticipaci6n law, favors sparsely populated and less-developed provinces at
the expense of the more developed and densely populated provinces which have
a higher concentration of the nation's households with unsatisfied basic needs.
Provincial to Municipal Revenue Transfers
1.20  Intergovernmental  fiscal  relationships  between  provinces  and
municipalities are similar to those between the central and provincial
governments, with each provincial constitution providing for specific
arrangements.   Provincial to municipal transfers may be automatic or
discretionary.
1.21 Between 1983 and 1990 total transfers from the Central Government to
provinces fell from US$3.6 billion to US$3.1 billion, but the share of transfers
to the municipalities doubled from 23% to 50% for the period (from 8% to 15%
of total expenditures).  The increase in transfers can be attributed to the
expanding employment roles of the municipalities and a decline in their own tax
efforts. With the recent increase in federal transfers to the provinces, transfers
to municipalities have also increased. These transfers rose, from US$1.3 billion
in 1990 to US$2.4 billion in 1992, frequently without corresponding increases
in responsibilities.
1.22  Automatic  Revenue  Sharing.    The  provincial to  municipal
coparnicipaci6n laws define the primary distribution of resources from national
revenue sharing and provincial taxes to be shared with the municipalities and
then define the criteria for distribution among the municipalities (i.e., secondary
distribution). For the 13 Bank provinces, the primary provincial to municipal
distribution of total national automatic revenue sharing in 1992 ranged from 5%
in Corrientes to 30% in Tierra del Fuego. For provincial taxes, the percentage
going to the municipalities ranged from 14% in Buenos Aires and Mendoza to
80% in Neuquen (Annex D).
1.23 Secondary distribution in provincial to municipal revenue sharing can be
classified as redistributional (e.g., criteria such as population, land surface,
equal share, density, and basic needs) or related to fiscal effort (e.g., municipal
tax effort and fiscal health). In the 13 provinces to be assisted by the Bank
loan, the 1992 percentages show that the amounts allocated for fiscal effort vary
greatly, ranging from zero in Corrientes to 64.3% in La Pampa (Annex D).
1.24 Discretionary Transfers. Discretionary provincial to municipal grants
can cover budget deficits or finance investments. In a recent sample for the



- 7 -
project's provinces, total discretionary grants from the provinces in 1992
exceeded total own-source and coparticipaci6n revenues by 10% in over one-
quarter of the municipalities surveyed. It is safe to assume that the greater the
provincial discretionary grants, the less likely it will be that municipalities will
confront their constituents with the costs of their investment decisions.
Municipal Own-Source Revenues
1.25 The primary municipal own-source revenues are: (a) user charges for
public services (frequently tied to the property tax) such as refuse collection and
disposal, and street maintenance; and (b) betterment levies for public works that
directly enhance property values. Although the dependence on provincial
automatic transfers versus own-source revenues varies widely, about half of the
municipalities in a representative sample obtained more than 60% of their total
current revenues (excluding discretionary grants) from own sources. Only about
11% obtained more than 60% from automatic revenue sharing. Thus, though
the level of municipal dependence on provincial transfers is relatively high,
municipalities do have their own sources of revenues (Annex D).
E. Sector Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.26 The Bank has been, and remains, a strong supporter of the Government
of Argentina's ambitious public sector reform program. This project would
assist in extending the fiscal and administrative reforms at the national level to
the municipal public sector. By increasing the resource base and service
delivery efficiency of municipal governments, the project would support
increased public sector efficiency (by confronting final beneficiaries with the
costs of their decisions, thereby increasing accountability) and resource
mobilization (for counterpart funds during implementation and through cost
recovery). A more efficient municipal public sector would be able to provide
more effective infrastructure to support productive activities, meet the basic
needs of the population, and improve environmental quality. By advancing
efforts to rebuild the infrastructure base and consolidate macroeconomic
reforms, the proposed project fully supports the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed by the Board on March 1, 1994.
1.27 Specifically, municipal capital improvements programs that offer
adequate cost recovery, primarily from the program's direct beneficiaries,
explicitly support these objectives.   Greater cost recovery from  these
beneficiaries would increase the accountability of municipalities and, therefore,
the efficiency of resource allocation. By promoting fiscal discipline and an
appropriate balance between expenditure responsibility and revenue authority by
level of government, the project would support resource mobilization in a
financially responsible manner. In addition, as in the Provincial Adjustment



- 8 -
Loan (proposed for FY95), the project would support the design and
implementation of provincial to municipal revenue sharing systems that are more
equitable and promote improvements in municipal fiscal performance.
1.28 By making municipalities more fiscally autonomous and thereby reducing
pressures for provincial transfers to them, the proposed project would also
contribute to the improvement of the fiscal performance of the provinces, the
main goal of both the above-mentioned adjustment loan and the Provincial
Development Project (US$200 million, FY91).
F. Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.29 The proposed project is similar to the newer style of municipal
development projects that stress the improvement of efficiency and fiscal
discipline of the municipal public sector, such as in the first Argentina (Loan
2920-AR) and Ecuador (Loan 3285-EC) municipal development operations. As
these municipal finance-oriented operations are relatively new, there are only a
few Project Completion Reports (PCRs) and Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) available on this type of operation. Also, a recent report issued by
OED (7Wenry Years of Lending for Urban Development, 1972-92) concentrates
its analysis primarily on the previous traditional type of urban projects,
reviewing the relationship between these projects and the key items now
identified by the Bank for its urban policy agenda: improving the urban
environment, poverty reduction, economic growth and increased efficiency of
infrastructure services. However, the report also comments that "from the
outcomes of completed operations there is evidence of impacts through real
sector, fiscal, and financial links... but there is scope for improvements in
'operationalizing' these links."
1.30 Of the projects reviewed, the experience of the Parand Market Towns
Project (PRAM) is particularly relevant for the proposed new project. The
PPAR for this project concludes:
PRAM's success can be attributed to a number of factors: (a) it
was based on an existing local initiative that was able to maintain strong
political support even when control of the state government shifted from
one party to another; (b) most subprojects were small and of relatively
simple design and easy to implement; (c) it was administered by a
competent and motivated team and was able to utilize the decentralized
structure of the existing state municipal assistance agency; (d) it was able
to meet the priority demands of a large number of municipalities, provid-
ing it with additional political support; (e) as a multi-town program
riks of delayed or non-execution were spread over a large number of
sub-borrowers; and (f) its location in a state having a tradition of good
public administration provided a propitious institutional setting for
project execution (Report No. 10832, paras. 3.31-3.35).



- 9 -
1.31 The later OED study (Thvenry Years of Lending) was a much more
extensive study, reviewing 115 completed urban projects in 52 countries. Many
of its conclusions repeat and confirm earlier observations. Specifically, it
recommends the following lines of action: (a) tapping the potential of real,
fiscal, and financial linkages of urban projects to enhance their impact; (b)
strengthening the congruence of objectives and design; (c) securing project
ownership (by the beneficiaries); and (d) improving monitoring and evaluation
systems.
1.32 A recent PCR for a municipal development project in Honduras (Loan
2583-HO) concludes with a number of useful lessons: (a) the need for
continuing close coordination among donor agencies; (b) the need to address the
system of incentives within which local governments operate; (c) the need to
provide institutional strengthening programs within an appropriate environment
and sufficient time horizon; (d) the desirability of incorporating private capital
markets to mobilize and allocate savings for municipalities; (e) having well-
designed decentralization policies; and (f) the need for close Bank supervision
in the case of programs supporting institutional reform.
Hurst Municipal Development Project
1.33 Particularly relevant for the proposed project are the lessons learned
from the success of the Argentina First Municipal Development Project (Loan
2920-AR). In terms of investments, the success has been due primarily to the
following factors: (a) the concentration on small, simple and easy to implement
investments; (b) the coverage of a large number of interested municipalities; (c)
the maintenance of very competent local executing units; and (d) the flexibility
of shifting and reallocating loan funds among competing provinces.
1.34 A related factor in the success of this project has been the limited role
assigned to the federal level, where a small but effective coordinating offlce is
in charge of routine contacts with the Bank and some project review functions.
This has succeeded in avoiding the delays sometimes created by a large, control-
ling central unit, and greatly contributed to the efficient implementation of this
project. In addition, this project benefitted by having only a few and simple
"pass - no pass" fiscal conditions. These were easy to quantify, easy for the
municipalities to understand, and simple for the Bank to review and approve.
Regarding subproject cost recovery, the experience of the first Municipal
Development Project (Loan 2920-AR) was satisfactory. Ninety percent of the
loan proceeds had cost recovery greater than 50%, and 63% of loan proceeds
had cost recovery greater than 65%.



- 10-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origins
2.1   The proposed operation would be the second of its kind in Argentina.
It builds on the operational experience of the first Argentina Municipal
Development Project (Loan 2920-AR) and would complement - at the
municipal level - the fiscal objectives of the Provincial Development Project
(Loan 3280-AR). The first Municipal Development Project became effective in
March of 1989 and covered five provinces. Despite a slow start caused by the
macro conditions prevailing at the time, the project is expected to be completed
on schedule, as all available funds have already been fully committed. Many
more eligible investments in the five provinces have been identified, but cannot
be considered due to lack of funds. Similar opportunities have been identified
in the other provinces of Argentina. The Central Government has therefore
asked the Bank to consider this new operation. A parallel operation was
approved by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in late 1994. To
avoid implementation difficulties, the Central Govemment has asked each bank
to work in a different group of provinces for their respective new operations,
except that the two banks would work together in the four largest provinces,
each financing a different group of investments according to size (the World
Bank financing all municipal investments up to US$2.0 million equivalent and
the IDB financing the rest).
B. Project Objectives
2.2   The main objective of the project is to contribute to more effective public
sector management at the provincial and municipal levels through improved
financing mechanisms for municipal investments. It would also help attain more
effective fiscal federalism by strengthening the municipalities' capacity to
assume the responsibilities being transferred to them. The specific objectives
are to:
(a)   mobilize external and internal resources in a non-deficit and non-
inflationary way in order to finance justified municipal
investments - particularly those contributing to productive
activities;
(b)   strengthen municipalities' capacity to plan, finance and execute,
in an efficient manner, cost-effective capital investment
programs, thus assisting them to develop the capacity to
eventually finance their investment needs through the private
capital markets; and



- 11 -
(c)   strengthen  the institutional capacity of municipalities and
provinces to manage their resources more effectively and to
increase the efficiency of their systems for delivery of services.
C. Project Components
2.3   The project would include the following components.
(a)   Municipal infrastructure (81% of total project costs), including
construction and rehabilitation of public infrastructure (e.g., road
paving and related works, public lighting and sanitation),
community facilities (e.g., markets, and bus terminals),
equipment for other municipal services (e.g., for road
maintenance, refuse collection and disposal).
(b)   Institutional strengthening (6% of total project costs), including
improvements in financial management, information systems,
accounting procedures, cadasters, maintenance procedures, and
analyses to identify key policy issues and make recommendations
for improving the assignment of revenues and responsibilities
between the provincial and municipal levels of government.
Although provinces could use up to 5 % of the amount of the loan
(US$10.5 million) to finance their own institutional strengthening
(i.e., technical assistance or studies), all other funds would go to
the municipalities (para. 2.29).
(c)   Project administration, monitoring and auditing (13 % of total
project costs), including project execution at the municipal level
and semi-annual project performance reports (para. 2.50)
produced by the participating Provincial Executing Units and
reviewed by the Central Coordinating Unit.
D. Eligibility Criteria
2.4   In order to effectively implement the project's objectives in 13 provinces,
each with unique demographic, economic, physical and political characteristics,
it is essential that the eligibility criteria be clear, easily determined and fully
accepted by all institutions involved in the project's implementation. These
basic criteria would be defined at three levels: (a) provincial eligibility; (b)
municipal eligibility; and (c) subproject eligibility.
Provincial Eligibility Criteria
2.5   In order to ensure full compatibility with the objectives and conditions
of the Provincial Development Project (Loan 3280-AR), provinces wishing to
participate in the project would have to be in compliance with the eligibility



- 12 -
criteria of the provincial project, including the introduction of any proposed
subprojects into the provinces' approved Financial Action and Investment Plan
as defined in the Provincial Development Project. While all 13 provinces would
be potential candidates for the project, each participating province would have
to demonstrate - as an additional condition of eligibility - that it has a
transparent and predictable revenue sharing (coparticipaci6n) law that transfers
sufficient funds to guarantee municipal loans in accordance with procedures to
be established in the Project Operations Manual (para. 2.35). An initial review
of the potentially eligible provinces shows that they all have revenue-sharing
laws to transfer national funds to provinces and provincial own-source revenues
on to municipalities (Annex D). Although all have clearly defined percentages
for primary distribution of national funds to provinces and provincial own-
source revenues to all municipalities, the secondary distribution to each
municipality is not entirely transparent in two cases (Misiones and Tierra del
Fuego). Furthermore, in the Province of La Rioja, the revenue-sharing law has
been temporarily suspended. These conditions would have to be corrected for
the three provinces to be eligible to participate in the project.
2.6   All funds onlent to municipalities would be guaranteed through their
share of the provincial to municipal revenue sharing system. In addition, all
loan repayments to the provinces would be channeled through a financially
autonomous Municipal Development Fund (MDF).
2.7   The creation and continuation of the MDF would be a condition of
eligibility for each province. The provinces would apply "harder" onlending
terms to municipalities in order to capitalize the MDFs, which would then be
used exclusively for further onlending to municipalities at positive real interest
rates and also to provide a reserve to cover the foreign exchange risk. Each
province would be autonomous in establishing its onlending policies to
municipalities within the following minimum measures for MDF capitalization:
(a)   while project loans from the Central Government to provinces
would be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
provincial onlending to municipalities would have up to 10 years
for loan repayment, including up to 1 year of grace; and
(b)   in onlending to municipalities, provinces would include a spread
of at least 1.5% over the interest rate for provincial repayment
of loans to the central government to help capitalize the MDF
and cover cross-currency risks.
2.8   The autonomy of the Municipal Development Funds would permit the
participation of eligible municipalities in provinces lacking the creditworthiness
to borrow, as such provincial governments would not be able to use these
resources for any purpose other than the stated purpose of the fund (i.e.,
repayment of the Bank debt service, reserve to cover the cross-currency



- 13 -
exchange risk, and financing additional municipal investments). Furthermore,
in such cases, the province would have to demonstrate that the fund's cash flow
would be able to service in a timely fashion all the province's financial
commitments arising from the project. By including municipalities in provinces
lacking the creditworthiness to borrow, the project would encourage
municipalities in all provinces (both creditworthy and uncreditworthy) to
improve their own fiscal performance.  Increased  municipal resource
mobilization and fiscal autonomy could reduce municipal demands for provincial
transfers, which are an important and growing drain on provincial finances and
impair provincial creditworthiness (para. 1.21).
Municipal Eligibility Criteria
2.9   Regarding municipal eligibility criteria, all municipalities would be
eligible to participate in the institutional strengthening component of the project.
In order to receive credit for financing municipal infrastructure investments,
however, municipalities would have to meet creditworthiness criteria, and
demonstrate that the proposed investments are consistent with the municipalities'
general development plans and their overall investment programs (including
investments financed from other sources).
2.10  With respect to creditworthiness, to be eligible a municipality would
have to demonstrate that:
(a)   its current revenues (excluding discretionary grants) are greater
than its current expenditures (including payments of interest and
principal); and either
(b)   its outstanding and proposed debt obligations are within
reasonable limits, defined by the following criterion: total debt
service on total outstanding and proposed loans does not exceed
15% of total budgeted revenues for the year of the proposed
project; or
(c)   total outstanding and proposed debt does not exceed 60% of total
municipal revenues (excluding credit) of the previous year,
adjusted for inflation.
2.11  These criteria reward municipalities in provinces with automatic revenue
sharing, as municipalities in these provinces would obviously have higher
current revenues (own-source plus automatic revenue sharing) and thus would
be more likely to have current account equilibrium (criteria (a)) and a higher
debt service capacity (criteria (b)). Given that there will be competition for loan
proceeds, this may induce municipalities to pressure their provincial
governments to make their provincial to municipal revenue-sharing systems
more predictable and transparent.



- 14 -
Subproject Eligibility Criteria
2.12 While all municipalities would be eligible for institutional strengthening
programs, to access funds for particular investments, municipalities would have
to meet additional eligibility criteria that, together with the municipal
creditworthy criteria (paras. 2.10-2. 11), would provide adequate assurances that:
(a)   incremental resources mobilized through the project would be
used in a non-deficit and non-inflationary way;
(b)   municipalities that participate in the project would be financially
strengthened in order to provide other services not covered by the
project; and
(c)   subprojects are technically, economically, financially, and
environmentally sound.
2.13  Cost recovery is essential to all three of these criteria. A fundamental
condition would therefore be that at least 65 % of the total cost of the aggregate
investments proposed in a municipality in a given year be recovered from
payments to the municipality by direct beneficiaries (e.g., betterment levies,
connection fees, user charges, sales, concessions and rents).
2.14 In addition, the Project Operations Manual would define the specific
methods to be used for the technical, economic, financial, and environmental
evaluation of subprojects. The evaluation methods chosen would reflect the
physical risks of subprojects with different degrees of complexity and size. For
example, a street lighting subproject would normally use minimum cost
economic analysis, especially if there is full cost recovery. However, some
larger or more complex subprojects would require full cost-benefit analysis and
a complete environmental assessment. The preparation and review requirements
would be defined in the Project Operations Manual. The responsibility for
supervising the application of these requirements would rest primarily with the
provincial executing units (paras. 2.33-2.35).
2.15  Furthermore, in the case of municipalities subject to conditions of
unusual physical risks (such as potential floods in the La Plata River basin),
investments would only be allowed if it is confirmed that they would not be
unduly threatened by such conditions.
2.16 To facilitate subproject evaluation procedures and promote broad
institutional benefits resulting from implementing numerous, small-scale
investments in many municipalities, smaller (e.g., costing at most US$2.0
million equivalent) and less complex subprojects would be given priority.



- 15 -
2.17 The project would mainly finance those physical investments that are
exclusively municipal in nature. The criteria for determining this condition are:
(a)   that the investment be procured under the municipality's
authority;
(b)   that the municipality be responsible for its operation and
maintenance; and
(c)   that after the investment is completed, the municipality will have
authority over service tariffs or fees.
2.18 Given that Argentina's decentralization program is ongoing and that the
responsibilities of the municipalities continue to evolve (para. 1.10), the
proposed project would make it a condition of subproject eligibility that only
those subproject in sectors which are clearly the municipalities' responsibility
(as defined in the Ley Orgdnica Municipal) would be eligible.
2.19 Force account procedures would be not be used so as to keep the project
simple and to promote private sector participation in the project.
2.20 With respect to service-provider cooperatives which exist in some
provinces for which there may be a question whether final responsibility rests
with the municipality or the cooperative, investments would be considered
eligible for financing under the project if: (a) all of the three criteria of the
preceding paragraph are satisfied; and (b) municipal authority is legally
delegated, with limitations of delegation authority, to cooperatives in which
participation is restricted to persons or firms located within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. An exception to these conditions would be made in the case
of expansions to gas distribution networks to be carried out by municipalities to
extend these services to areas not covered by the gas companies. In these cases,
there would have to be full cost recovery from the households benefiting from
the expansions through payments attached to their regular consumption bills.
2.21 Although preference would be given to smaller investments (para. 2.14),
there would be no limitation on the size of individual investment subprojects.
The only exceptions would be that there would be a maximum allowed for
investments above US$2.0 million of 30% of the loan amount, and that in the
four largest provinces (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Santa Fe and Mendoza), the
Bank would only finance subprojects up to US$2.0 million equivalent each
(those above this amount would be financed by the IDB).
E. Project Costs
2.22 The total Bank project cost is estimated at US$300 million equivalent.
Together with the parallel IDB operation (US$300 million), the total cost of the



- 16 -
joint Bank-IDB program would amount to US$600 million. The proposed Bank
loan of US$210 million equivalent would finance approximately 35% of these
total costs. A summary of project costs is presented in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Estimated Program Costs
Local   E2oreiz    2tl 
-Q uIy 1994 USS miions)-
Municipal Infrastructure        163       80      243    81
Institutional Strengthening       7       10       17     6
Project Administration          40        =        40     13
(including audits)
Total Bank Project Cost         210       90      300
Total IDB Project Cost           -        -       3
* Total Program Cost             -        -       600
2.23  Project cost estimates have been based on actual costs of similar items
recently procured in the ongoing first Municipal Development Project (Loan
2920-AR). These costs are expressed in US dollars because of the parity
between the dollar and the peso. The proposed project would finance a time
slice of municipal investments.   Thus, these cost estimates are only
approximations, and no separate contingencies were calculated.
2.24 For the Bank's project, foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$90
million equivalent (30% of the total), of which approximately 89% is for
municipal infrastructure and 11 % for institutional strengthening.
2.25 Dimensioning of project and loan sizes were based primarily on: (a) a
demand survey conducted during preparation of the project; (b) the
implementation capacity of municipalities in the participating provinces; (c)
actual investment levels and implementation experience in the first project; and
(d) the coverage by IDB of all investments above US$2.0 million equivalent in
the four larger provinces financed in parallel with the Bank. Although there is
an estimated potential demand for municipal infrastructure of US$1.3 billion
(Annex C), it was deemed prudent to limit the amount of the project and loan
in accordance with the above factors.
F. Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Province
2.26 The Central Government's policy is to provide equal access to
international assistance for all provinces. This policy needs to be combined with
the actual potential for effective use of the available funds. Thus, the allocation
of funds from this program to each province will be done according to a
combination (in equal parts) of the quotas established in the distributo  of
revenue sharing from the Central Government to the provinces (coparticipaci6n)



- 17 -
and the distribution of population in the participating provinces. However, to
maintain some flexibility and to allow for adjustments according to actual
interest and use of the funds during implementation, the allocation would be
done in two stages. Most of the available funds would be distributed according
to the indicated formula for use during an initial period of three years.
However, given that municipalities in the four largest provinces (Buenos Aires,
Cordoba, Santa Fe and Mendoza) would also have access to funds from the
parallel operation financed by the IDB, the initial allocation to these four
provinces would be halved - the other half going into a pool of funds to be
used at the second stage. Funds from the initial allocation not committed during
the first three years would also go into the pool mentioned above.  The
allocation of funds from the pool would be on the basis of actual demand (i.e.,
first come, first served). Based on the above criteria, the initial allocation of
loan proceeds would be as follows (in US$ thousand equivalent):
Table 2.2: Initial Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Province *
IBRD Loan (US$'000) =  $210,000
Initial Allocation (US$'000) =  $129,838
Pool of Unassigned Resources (US$'000) =   $80,162
Provinces                     bnitial Allocation            % of Initial
(US$'000)                  Allocation
Buenos Aires                      46,504                       36
Santa Fe                          13,595                       11
C6rdoba                           13,475                       10
Corrientes                         9,621                        7
Misiones                           8,925                        7
Formosa                            7,678                        6
Mendoza                            6,588                        5
Catamarca                          5,639                        4
Neuquen                            4,572                        4
La Rioja                           4,340                        3
La Pampa                           4,210                        3
Santa Cruz                         3,275                        3
Tierra del Fuego                   1,417                        1
Totals     129,838                       100
* See Annex E for details.
2.27 While some of the provinces participating in the project have had
experience in the ongoing operation, many of the factors affecting
implementation would still exist (e.g., time required to pass new provincial laws
permitting indebtedness or to prepare new investment subprojects). Also, many
of the provinces would be new to this type of program. The implementation



- 18 -
schedule of six and a half years for project completion has taken these factors
into account. Annex H shows the estimated disbursement schedule.
G. Financing Plan
2.28 It is proposed that the Bank finance approximately 35% of the program's
total cost (i.e., including the IDB operation), with all counterpart funds in the
Bank's project to be provided by the municipalities. The new IDB municipal
loan to be implemented in parallel with this operation is also expected to finance
35 % of the combined costs of the program. This level of financing is justified
because of (a) the need to provide strong incentives to improve the fiscal
behavior of municipal governments, (b) the important and long-term impact of
the institutional strengthening expected from the project, and (c) the limited
capacity of municipalities to provide the necessary counterpart funds, given the
strict eligibility criteria imposed on them by the project. Also, Bank financing
in both the Municipal Development and the Provincial Development projects is
70%. The financing plan of the total program is presented below.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan
Local  Foreign   Tota 
-(uly 1994 USs milions) -
Bank                    120      90    210   35
IDB                      -       --    210   35
Municipalities          180      =      180   30
0 Total                  -       -      600
2.29  The Bank loan would be made at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate with repayment in 15 years, with a grace period of 5 years. All proceeds
of the Bank loan would be onlent from the Central Government to provincial
governments eligible under this loan with the same terms and conditions as Bank
lending to the Argentine Republic (para. 3. l(b)(i)). Provinces would assume the
cross-currency exchange risk and would pay a charge of up to 2.5% of the loan
amount for the operations of a central coordinating unit (para. 2.32). These
conditions would be established in Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be signed
between the Central Government and each participating province (para. 3.2(b)).
Although provinces could use up to 5% of the amount of the loan (US$10.5
million) to finance their own institutional strengthening (i.e., technical assistance
or studies), all other proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to
municipalities. This 5 % would be allocated among the provinces in direct
proportion to the initial allocation (see last column of Table 2.2).
2.30 Onlending of the proceeds of the Bank loan from provinces to
municipalities would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank that
would be established in subloan agreements between each province and the



- 19 -
municipalities. Municipalities would provide all local counterpart funds for
investment subloans.
2.31 Municipal repayment of loans would be guaranteed through the
municipalities' funds from the provinces' revenue sharing with them (para.
3. 1(a)(ii)).
H. Implementation Arrangements
2.32 Overall coordination of project execution would be the responsibility of
the Under Secretariat of Housing (SV) in the Secretariat of Social Development
of the Presidency (para. 3. 1(a)(iii)), but actual implementation would be the
responsibility of each participating province and the respective municipalities.
The SV would maintain the existing Central Coordinating Unit (CCU) for the
project. The CCU would manage the Special Account, provide general
coordination and support to the provincial executing agencies, manage the flow
of documents required by the Bank and the provinces, monitor and report on
project implementation (including the preparation of the semi-annual
performance reports and the consolidation of annual financial audits from each
province, paras. 2.50-2.51), and carry out several studies on generic issues
affecting the performance of municipalities. The CCU would also be available
to coordinate the dissemination of experience and techniques to the provinces,
and to coordinate other functions on behalf of, and at the request of, the
provinces. During negotiations the Government presented a preliminary plan
to strengthen the CCU so it will operate with sufficient qualified staff (para.
3. l(a)(iii)). Submission of the finalized staffing plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2 (e)).
2.33 Each province would form a Provincial Executing Unit (PEU) that would
be primarily responsible for implementation, supervision and evaluation of all
project activities in the province (Annex G). The model to be followed would
be the executing units established in the five provinces belonging to the ongoing
Municipal Development Project (Loan 2920-AR). The PEUs would not be large
entities, nor would they duplicate the functions and tasks of existing agencies.
Rather, they would function under the authority of the Provincial Governors to
ensure that all project activities are properly coordinated with the relevant
provincial ministries and agencies necessary for successful project
implementation, in addition to performing directly all planning, programming,
supervision and reporting duties. The establishment and maintenance of the
PEU, with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition
of eligibility and disbursement in each province (paras. 3. 1(b)(ii) & 3.2(c)(i)).
The operating costs of a PEU, as well as the provinces' share of the costs of the
CCU and of the commitment fees, would come from regular provincial
budgetary appropriations. There are two basic conditions necessary for the PEU
to adequately assume its implementation responsibilities under the project: (a)
adequate staffing, with sufficient technical expertise to carry out implementation



- 20 -
functions directly (para. 3.2(c)(i)); and (b) sufficient authority, ultimately
flowing from the Governor, to be able to mobilize and coordinate resources
across provincial agencies as well as among municipalities. These would be
conditions of disbursement for each province.
2.34 All physical investments under the project would be fully in compliance
with Bank policies on the environment, including preparation of environmental
assessments and impact statements when required. As a means of ensuring
compliance and consistency, the Project Operations Manual would provide
environmental guidelines for evaluating subprojects (para. 3.1(b)(x)). The
implementation of these guidelines will be the responsibility of the PEUs.
Specifically, each PEU would be responsible for screening proposals to ensure
that those which could have environmental impacts are analyzed and appropriate
actions are taken. When an environmental assessment is required, the PEU
would be responsible for seeing that all needed actions are taken (e.g., hiring
environmental consultants to prepare the assessment and developing
environmental mitigation and management plans). As a condition of eligibility,
the provinces would have to demonstrate to the CCU that the respective PEUs
have adequate environmental capacity to carry out the above measures.
2.35 Detailed implementation arrangements would be described in a standard
Project Operations Manual satisfactory to the Bank, which each province would
agree not to amend without the Bank's prior consent (para. 3. 1(b)(v)). In
addition to the project's eligibility criteria (paras. 2.5-2.21), the Manual would
include, inter alia, subloan terms and conditions, guidelines for procurement,
draft tender documents, subloan disbursement procedures, guidelines and control
procedures for components' unit costs, and model contracts between the
province and its financial intermediary, between the province and its
municipalities, as well as the main elements of the Loan Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
2.36 Municipal authorities would have to prepare and present to the PEU
annual or multi-year investment plans for inclusion in the province's program
proposal for the subsequent year. This would take place through a structured
process of consultation on a rolling, annual basis. Annual Investment Plans, as
consolidated and proposed by the province (including provincial technical
assistance and training, in addition to the municipal infrastructure and
institutional strengthening subprojects), would be reviewed and approved by the
Bank (para. 3. 1(b)(iv)), and only subprojects included in these Plans would be
eligible for financing under the project. These Plans would need to show, for
each proposed investment, cost recovery procedures and projections, as well as
their individual impact on the municipality's creditworthiness and that the
proposed investment is the clear responsibility of the municipality or province..
A standard format to be used by all provinces in the submission of these Plans
would be defined in the Project Operations Manual in a form satisfactory to the
Bank. In the case of municipalities submitting investments in high-risk areas



- 21 -
(e.g., the La Plata River flood plain), adequate assurances that these risks have
been considered would need to be presented as well.
2.37 As a condition of effectiveness, at least one province would have to sign
a Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the Central Government (para. 3.2(b)).
2.38 A Supervision Plan is provided in Annex G, and includes a Project
Launch Workshop, bi-annual supervision missions, and annual visits to
Washington by CCU staff. This Annex also includes a matrix showing the key
indicators for the implementation and development objectives that would be
monitored during supervision missions.
I. Procurement
2.39 Based on the experience of the first municipal development project,
problems with procurement matters would be minimal given the small size of
most subprojects and the use of standard bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank provided in the Project Operations Manual. To facilitate procurement,
PEUs would be required to hire competent procurement review consultants to
assist them in implementing procurement efficiently. Procurement for civil
works and goods costing US$350,000 and US$100,000 equivalent or less,
respectively, would be done through international or local shopping as
applicable. This is expected to account for approximately US$25 million
equivalent (US$18 million for civil works and US$7 million for goods), or 8%
of total project costs.  Civil works costing between US$350,000 and
US$5,000,000 equivalent and goods costing US$100,000 up to US$350,000
accounting for US$184 million (US$143 million for civil works and US$41
million for goods), or 61 % of total project costs, would be carried out through
I,ocal Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement of all civil works and goods costing US$5,000,000 and
US$350,000 equivalent or more, respectively, accounting for US$25 million
(US$18 million for civil works and US$7 million for goods), or 8% of total
project costs, would be through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
agreement with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits. Consultant services, estimated to cost US$34.3 million equivalent,
or 11 % of total project costs, would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. The use of
LCB procedures and standard bidding documents for goods and works
acceptable to the Bank, and of standard documents for the selection and hiring
of consultants, would be a condition of the loan. These procedures would be
in accordance with all Bank policies (para. 3. 1(b)(vi)). In ICB procurement, as
well as the contracting of consulting services, the Bank's standard documents
would be used. These arrangements are summarized in Table 2.4 below and
would be included in the Project Operations Manual for each province.



- 22 -
2.40 The provinces participating in the proposed project would exempt
contracts for goods, works and services to be financed under the project from
all legal and regulatory provisions which are in conflict with the Legal
Agreement's procurement provisions for goods, works and services (para.
3.2(c)(ii)).
Table 2.4: Procurement Method by Category
(in US$ million equivalent)
ICB     LCB    Other   NBF    Total
Civil Works                              18     143        18    --      179
(18)    (107)    (13)     --   (138)
Goods                                    7       41         7     --      55
(7)     (31)     (5)    ---    (43)
Consulting Services
(a) Included in eligible         --      ---       26      ---     26
subprojects under project       --        --      (22)           (22)
components (a) and (b)
(b) For the CCU including       ---       --      6.1    ---      6.1
travel and per diem             ---       ---    (5.2)    --    (5.2)
Auditing Services                       --       --      1.8      ---     1.8
(1.5)    ---   (1.5)
Training                                                  0.4             0.4
_-    (0.3)     --    (0.3)
Project Administration                  ---      --             31.7    31.7
(0)     (0)
1DB Project                             ---                      300     300
(0)     (0)
Total                                    25      184    59.3  331.7      600
of which IBRD financed                (25)    (138)    (47)    (0)   (210)
* Numbers in parentheses are the anounts financed by IBRD.
* Other includes S25 mnillion for local and international sbopping and
employment of consultants in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
* NBF = not Bank financed.
2.41   PEUs would review, ex-ante, all procurement procedures, documents,
bid evaluations, and contract awards related to civil works and goods to ensure
that the agreed procurement processes are properly carried out. In addition, all
ICB procedures, documents, bid evaluations and contract awards would be
reviewed ex-ante by the Bank. Because LCB bid packages would be too small
and numerous for effective ex-ante review by the Bank, such reviews would be
delegated, in the first instance, to each province's PEU. However, in order to
ensure compliance with Bank procurement policies, each PEU would submit for
ex-ante review by the Bank, all documentation to be used for the procurement



- 23 -
of civil works contracts costing US$1.5 million or more, including bid
documents, evaluations and recommended contract awards. Similarly, each
PEU would submit for ex-ante review by the Bank, all documentation to be used
for the procurement of goods contracts costing US$150,000 or more. Each
PEU would review ex-ante all procedures and documentation to be used for
contracting consultants.  The Bank would review ex-ante all consultant
contracting procedures and documentation for all contracts costing US$100,000
equivalent or more in the case of firms, and US$50,000 or more for individuals,
as well as the terms of reference of all consulting assignments.
Table 2.5: Procurement Prior Review and SOE Thresholds
(in USS '000 equivalent)
Prior Review                 SOE
Civil Works            All contracts 21,500       Contracts < 1,500
Goods                   All contracts 2150         Contracts <150
Consulting Services       Firms 2100                Firms <100
Individuals 250           Individuals <50
2.42 The performance review reports required for each province (para. 2.51)
would provide certification that the procurement presented to the Bank on a
sample basis for ex-ante review is typical and representative. Furthermore,
these reports would provide certification that all other procurement was also
carried out in accordance with the agreed procedures. In all cases, however,
the Bank would review, on an ex-post basis by sampling, LCB, international and
local shopping, and contracting of consultants procurement procedures. If it
were determined that procurement was not made following the agreed
procedures, then no expenditures for such items would be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, and the Bank may cancel the corresponding loan amount.
The financial audits would also include separate opinions on the compliance (in
each province) with procurement and on compliance with cost recovery
obligations (para. 2.50).
J. Disbursement
2.43 For withdrawal of proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, the following
categories and disbursement procedures are proposed:
(a)   for eligible civil works, 100% of foreign expenditures and 75%
of local expenditures;
(b)   for equipment, materials and vehicles, 100%  of foreign
expenditures and 75% of local expenditures; and



- 24 -
(c)   for consulting services, including necessary travel, 100%  of
foreign and local expenditures.
2.44 For municipal expenditures in categories (a), (b) and (c) above,
disbursements would be authorized only after verification and certification by
the PEU (according to procedures established in the Project Operations Manual)
that expenditures resulted from a previously approved subloan agreement
between the municipality and the province, and that the expenditures correspond
to a subproject included in a previously approved Annual Investment Plan (para.
2.36).
2.45  Because of the large number of contracts and relatively small payments,
disbursements for certain local expenditures would be made against Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs). All civil works below US$1.5 million and all goods
contracted below US$150,000 would be disbursed using SOE procedures.
Contracts with consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 and US$50,000 each, respectively, would also be disbursed against
SOEs. Disbursements from the Loan Account for contracts above the thresholds
detailed above would take place only after the Bank gives its no objection to the
procurement procedures used.
2.46 SOEs would contain expenditures of subprojects with a breakdown of
outlays for equipment, materials, consultants' services and civil works under
contract. Documentation of these expenditures would not be submitted to the
Bank but would be retained by the PEUs for periodic inspection by Bank staff.
Disbursements for other expenditures would be made against full documentation.
Each PEU would maintain adequate records for municipal expenditures, and
each would prepare consolidated SOEs for periodic transmittal to the CCU and
subsequent submission to the Bank.
2.47  In order to avoid the dismantling of the already functioning PEUs in the
five original provinces, and to encourage provincial initiative for rapid and
effective institutional support for project implementation, retroactive financing
not to exceed US$21.0 million in total is recommended for expenditures
incurred after March 1, 1994 and not earlier than 12 months before loan signing
in those provinces that comply in substance with all the terms and conditions to
be defined in the Loan Agreement - particularly those related to procurement
procedures.
2.48  The estimated disbursement schedule is based on historical data and
experience gathered under the first project, and the characteristics of the
participating provinces and municipalities.  The schedule assumes some
expenditures eligible for retroactive financing beginning March 1, 1994 and loan
effectiveness in June 1995.  This schedule is presented in Annex H.
Accordingly, the project's completion date would be December 31, 2001, and
the closing date would be June 30, 2002.



- 25 -
2.49 A Special Account, in US dollars would be established in the Banco de
la Naci6n Argentina and managed by the CCU (para. 3. 1(a)(i)). The authorized
Special Account allocation would be US$15 million. It was agreed during
negotiations that the amount of the initial allocation would be US$5 million.
K. Accounts and Audits
2.50 Separate Project Accounts in a financial intermediary would be opened
and maintained in each participating province and municipality. This obligation
would to be established in the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreements and
Subloan Agreements. The Special Account (para. 2.49) and the Project
Accounts in each province and municipality would be audited by a single
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.1(a)(iv) and 3.1(b)(vii)).
For municipalities and PEUs, an annual audit of the financial statements of the
Project Accounts, including a separate opinion on withdrawal applications made
on the basis of SOEs, would be furnished to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. These reports would also include separate
opinions about the degree of compliance with procurement procedures and cost
recovery obligations assumed by municipalities when submitting investment
proposals for approval, as well as separate opinions on compliance with the
obligations related to the Municipal Development Funds. In addition, each
province would provide to the Bank through the CCU semi-annual performance
review reports. Terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for conducting the
performance review reports would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 3.2(d)).
These reports would provide evaluations of the compliance by all participating
provinces and municipalities with all legal agreements - including the
provisions of the Project Operations Manual - reached with the Bank,
province, provincial intermediaries, and municipalities (para. 3.1 (b) (viii)).
The CCU would review the provincial reports and provide its own comments
to the Bank. The performance review reports from each participating province,
would be delivered to the Bank not later than March 31 and September 30 of
each year. The CCU would send the Bank its independent opinion on the
contents of the provincial reports, by April 30 and October 31 of each year.
2.51 The semi-annual performance reviews are essential to project design in
order to make effective Bank supervision manageable in the face of a large
number of subprojects spread over an enormous geographic area with numerous
political and administrative jurisdictions. Because of the demanding audit and
review requirements of the project, and because of the need to ensure timely
compliance with all legal agreements and to minimize risks of interruption of
disbursements through SOE procedures, the Bank would finance 100% of the
performance review and audit expenditures. If the financial or performance
review identifies significant irregularities or lack of compliance with any of the
obligations mentioned above in any municipality, then the Project Operations
Manual would provide that, as a condition of receiving project funding for
municipal investments in the subsequent audit period, the province would



- 26 -
provide a program (including an institutional strengthening program if
appropriate), satisfactory to the Bank, focused on eliminating the observed
irregularities or issues. If these problems persist for another audit or review
period, the municipality would be declared ineligible for subsequent project
financing (paras. 3.1(b)(ix)).
L. Flnancial Impact
2.52 Municipal creditworthiness and component eligibility criteria would
ensure that all municipalities that participate in the project would be financially
strengthened because of their participation. For those municipalities that will
be eligible initially only for institutional strengthening assistance - because they
do not meet the creditworthiness criteria - the project would focus provincial
assistance on improving municipal finance performance so that they may be
eligible for physical investment loans in the future.
2.53  From  the perspective of direct project beneficiaries, the project's
financial impact would be positive if two key assumptions are met: (a) affected
families and firms are rational and accurate in estimating that proposed
infrastructure benefits, as capitalized in their property values, will be greater
than the costs they must pay (generally through betterment levies) in order to
receive the service; (b) beneficiaries agree to finance infrastructure
improvements on a voluntary basis. Because the experience with past financing
of municipal infrastructure in Argentina indicates that both of these assumptions
are reasonable, the risk of negative project financial impact on direct
beneficiaries is very low.
2.54 The only provincial expenditures that would be required by the project
are counterpart funds for the provincial institutional strengthening program,
operation of the PEU, contribution for operation of the CCU, and commitment
fees. Even if the provinces spend 5% of the total amount of the loan for their
own needs, this amount would be less than 0. I% of the annual revenue of any
of the provinces. As these costs would be affordable for the provinces, project
implementation delays resulting from insufficient provincial counterpart funding
would not pose a significant risk.
M. Economic Impact
2.55 The weighted average of the internal economic rate of return (IERR) for
a sample of paving, street lighting, and sanitary subprojects is 19.7% (Annex
F). The three sectors evaluated represent 54% of the total estimated potential
demand of all sectors. The average IERR for each of the subsectors are:
17.8 % for paving; 21.1% for sanitation; and 28.8% for street lighting. These
three sectors represent 31%, 21% and 2% of total potential demand,
respectively.



- 27 -
N. Poverty Impact
2.56 While not explicitly designed to do so, the project would mostly benefit
the urban poor, who would be the primary recipients of the municipal
infrastructure financed by the project. Specifically, the project would have a
significant social impact through: (a) financing an increase in "adequate"
service levels for water and sanitation; (b) providing increased affordability for
these and other municipal services (such as road paving and street lighting)
because of the project's relatively long-term credit financing; and (c) generating
employment for low-skilled labor during construction.
2.57 By providing access to municipal infrastructure, the project would also
remove constraints on the potential productivity of the urban poor in terms of
physical access (road paving), personal safety (street lighting), and health and
environmental hazards (sanitation and refuse collection).
0. Environmental Impact
2.58 The project has been defined as category B for environmental purposes,
since some physical investments could have specific environmental impacts.
The net environmental impact, however, is expected to be positive. The project
would fund the means for evaluating a subproject's environmental impact in
each participating province as noted in para. 2.34. Further, through street
paving the dust from unpaved streets (a major contributor to air pollution in
many areas) would be reduced. The project would also bring about, through
sanitation subprojects, a reduction in soil and water contamination, as well as
improved erosion control through drainage subprojects.
P. Risks and Safeguards
2.59 Risks in this operation would be limited because of the experience gained
in the first project and the similarity between these two operations. The main
identified risk is the possibility that some provinces may prove ineffective or not
continue their interest in the project. To safeguard against this risk, the project
would be spread among 13 provinces, five of which (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba,
La Pampa, Neuquen and Santa Fe) participated in the first operation and were
the main promoters of the new project. Thus, should there be some provinces
not interested or capable of fully participating in the project, the large demand
for municipal infrastructure and the flexibility built into the design of the
procedure for allocating funds would permit shifting loan funds to the provinces
with more capacity and interest. No special risks have been identified with
regard to financial or technical matters, as most of the investments to be
financed - as in the first project - would be small and simple and limited to
eligible municipalities.  A  minor risk is the inclusion in the project of
municipalities in areas affected by possible floods.  To reduce this risk,



- 28 -
municipalities would have to provide, as a prior condition, certifications from
the corresponding PEUs that the proposed investments would be in safe areas
and were designed in accordance with appropriate standards. (A study is being
completed for the Subunidad de Control Contra Emergencias of the Ministry of
Interior that will provide guidelines for these areas).



- 29 -
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurances
3.1   During negotiations, assurances were obtained as follows.
(a)   From the Central Govermment that:
(i)  it will open and maintain, in US dollars, a Special Account in
the Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (para. 2.49);
(ii)  all of the proceeds of the Bank loan will be onlent to eligible
provinces in accordance with an allocation formula acceptable
to the Bank (para. 2.26) under terms and conditions equivalent
to the Bank loan, with each participating province's revenue
sharing serving as a guarantee for repayment of subloans (para.
2.31);
(iii) it will maintain a Central Coordinating Unit within the Under
Secretariat of Housing of the Secretariat of Social Development
of the Presidency, and that this entity will provide overall
project implementation supervision, including independent
reviews of the provincial semi-annual performance reports and
preparation of semi-annual progress reports on the overall
project (para. 2.32); and
(iv)  it will have the Special Account and the Project Accounts in
each province and municipality audited according to standard
country-wide procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.50).
(b)   That the Central Government will cause the provincial governments
to:
(i)  assume their share of the loan on the same terms and
conditions as received by the Central Government and onlend
to municipalities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (paras. 2.7, 2.29 and 2.30);
(ii)  establish, adequately staff and otherwise support, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, Project Execution Units during the
entire project execution period (para. 2.33);
(iii)  finance the operations of the Central Coordinating Unit (para.
2.32);



- 30 -
(iv)  agree to submit timely Annual Investment Plans (including
municipal  investments  and   provincial  institutional
strengthening) for Bank review and approval (para. 2.36);
(v)  approve and supervise the program  carried out by the
municipalities in accordance with the Project Operations
Manual, and not amend this Manual without the Bank's prior
consent (para. 2.35);
(vi)  carry out procurement in accordance with Bank policies (paras.
2.39-2.42), and provide separate annual certifications to this
effect in the performance review reports (para. 2.42);
(vii)  have the financial statements of the project account in each
province and participating municipalities, along with cost
recovery measures, audited annually by a single auditor
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 2.50 and 2.51);
(viii)  have semi-annual evaluations of performance, including the
compliance with all agreements entered into under the project,
provided through performance review reports prepared on the
basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (paras. 2.42,
2.50 and 2.51);
(ix)  if significant deficiencies in implementation are identified in
audits of the provincial project accounts and/or the PEU,
appropriate institutional strengthening assistance for the PEU
would be proposed as an obligatory part of the subsequent
year's investment program (paras. 2.36 and 2.51), and if
significant irregularities in municipal accounts and/or
performance are identified in the periodic audits (inter alia,
cost recovery), further project funding for physical investments
in that municipality would be made conditional on an
institutional strengthening program, satisfactory to the Bank,
focused on eliminating the observed irregularities; and
(x)  comply  with  all  necessary  environmental  protection
requirements, as provided in the Project Operations Manual
(para. 2.34).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
3.2   The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   Bank approval of the Project Operations Manual (para. 2.35);



- 31 -
(b)   the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Central
Government and at least one participating province (para. 2.37);
(c)   that the province referred to in (b) above has:
(i)  established and adequately staffed the Provincial Executing
Unit (PEU) (para. 2.33);
(ii) agreed to exempt all contracts for goods, works and services
to be financed under the project from all legal and regulatory
provisions limiting the international procurement of such
goods, works and services (para. 2.40); and
(iii) presented a description of specific environmental procedures
and institutional responsibilities that is consistent with the
guidelines in the Project Operations Manual and acceptable to
the Bank.
(d)   that terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for conducting the
performance review reports (including a review of performance
indicators) would be presented (para. 2.50).
(e)   that a staffing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, would be presented for
the CCU to ensure that it is sufficiently strengthened to perform its
assigned functions (para. 2.32).
C. Condition of Disbursement
3.3   A condition of disbursement for expenditures to be made by any province not
included in 3.2(b) would be that it also meet the conditions in 3.2(b) and (c) above.
D. Recommendation
3.4   With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$210 million equivalent, to be repaid over a period of 15 years,
including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.






- 32 -
ARGENTINA
SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES
A.   Previous Bank Experience in the Sector ..... ....... 33
B.    Population Growth and Distribution ...... ........ 38
C.   Demand for Municipal Infrastructure  ..... ........ 43
D.   Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations ...... ......... 45
E.    Initial Allocation and Commitment Fees by Province  .... 54
F. Economic Analysis   .               .58
G.   Implementation and Supervision Arrangements ..61
H.  Disbursement Schedule .              .                 65
I.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .. 66






- 33 -                      Annex A
Previous Bank Experience in the Sector
1.    The proposed project is similar to the newer style of municipal
development projects that stresses the improvement of efficiency and fiscal
discipline of the municipal public sector, such as in the first Argentina (Loan
2920-AR) and Ecuador (Loan 3285-EC) operations. As these municipal-finance
oriented operations are relatively new, there are only a few Project Completion
Reports (PCRs) and Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) available on
this type of operation. Also, a recent report issued by OED (7Wenty Years of
Lendingfor Urban Development, 1972-92) concentrates its analysis primarily on
urban issues as defined in the previous traditional type of urban projects,
referring primarily to the relationship between these projects and the key items
now identified by the Bank for its urban policy agenda: improvements in the
urban environment, poverty reduction, economic growth and increased
efficiency of infrastructure services. However, the report also comments that
"from the outcomes of completed operations there is evidence of impacts
through real sector, fiscal, and financial links.. .but there is scope for
improvements in 'operationalizing' these links." The proposed new project has
been designed with these comments in mind. This annex will review Bank
reports on such completed projects, and then comment on ongoing projects of
this type in the Department, taking into consideration the different risks that will
need to be analyzed. Because the proposed project has little in common with
the older, multi-sector urban projects, these projects will not be covered in this
review.
2.    In reviewing the experience of past projects and the lessons learned in
order to apply them to the proposed project, it is useful to distinguish among
different types of potential risks, depending on the project's objectives.
Municipal Development projects usually include: (a) policy reform objectives;
(b) investment objectives; and (c) institutional strengthening objectives. The
first two are often interconnected by using investments as incentives to induce
policy reforms, while institutional strengthening components are used to
facilitate achievement of the other two. The focus of the Bank's analysis has
often concentrated on risks related to the investment objectives, primarily
because of the particular importance of disbursements and because the associated
targets are relatively easy to quantify and monitor. However, particularly in
projects designed to be responsive to fiscal matters, it is also important to ad-
dress risks associated with the other two types of objectives and of the corre-
sponding components.
Lessons from Completed Projects
3.    The newer project style evolved as the Bank moved away from 'multi-
sector investments in one or a handful of urban areas to a more narrow, multi-



- 34 -                      Annex A
city, subsectoral approach" (OED, Annual Review. 1990, p. 37). These projects
also reflect a new policy agenda 'bringing together the concepts of economic
growth, efficiency, environmental impact, and poverty reduction" and charting
a "more comprehensive approach that relies much more on institutional
development and reform at the municipal and national levels" (OED, Twenty
Years of Lending for Urban Development, 1972-92: 1994, p. vii). Under the
first of these studies, OED reviewed four such projects in Korea, Ecuador, and
Brazil. These projects focused on institutional development but still placed a
heavy emphasis on physical investment, usually in smaller-scale urban
infrastructure. According to this report, this "newer-style subsector type of
urban project proved to be particularly satisfactory."
4.    Of these projects, the experience of the Parana Market Towns Project
(PRAM) is particularly relevant to the proposed new project. The PPAR for
this project concludes:
Municipal access to funds for a wide variety of urban investments
stimulated community participation and reportedly made local authorities
more accountable to their constituents. Availability of long-term credit
permitted municipal governments to finance projects whose costs could
be recovered, thus helping to enhance local revenues. While it is
difficult to assess project impact on local economic development, the
operation clearly helped to improve the quality of life in small towns and
cities throughout Parana. PRAM was also successful from a financial
standpoint as there were no reported cases of subloan default or
significant arrears. PRAM's success can be attributed to a number of
factors: (a) it was based on an existing local initiative that was able to
maintain strong political support even when control of the state
government shifted from one party to another; (b) most subprojects were
small and of relatively simple design and easy to implement; (c) it was
administered by a competent and motivated team and was able to utilize
the decentralized structure of the existing state municipal assistance
agency; (d) it was able to meet the priority demands of a large number
of municipalities, providing it with additional political support; (e) as a
multi-town program, risks of delayed or non-execution were spread over
a large number of sub-borrowers; and (f) its location in a state having
a tradition of good public administration provided a propitious
institutional setting for project execution (Report No. 10832, paras.
3.31-3.35).
5.    The later OED study (Tventy Years of Lending) was a much more
extensive study, reviewing 115 completed urban projects in 52 countries. Many
of its conclusions repeat and confirm earlier observations. Specifically, it
recommends the following lines of action: (a) tapping the potential of real,



- 35 -                      Annex A
fiscal, and financial linkages of urban projects to enhance their impact; (b)
strengthening the congruence of objectives and design; (c) securing project
ownership (by the beneficiaries); and (d) improving monitoring and evaluation
systems.
6.    A recent PCR for a municipal development project in Honduras (Loan
2583-HO) concludes with a number of useful lessons:  (a) the need for
continuing close coordination between donor agencies; (b) the need to address
the system of incentives within which local governments operate; (c) institutional
strengthening programs must be provided within an appropriate environment and
sufficient time horizon; (d) the desirability of incorporating private capital
markets to mobilize and allocate savings for municipalities; (e) having well
designed decentralization policies; and (f) the need for close Bank supervision
in the case of programs supporting institutional reform.
Lessons from the First Municipal Development Project in Argentina (Loan
2920-AR)
7.    Many of the above comments from the OED report are also applicable
to the first Municipal Development project in Argentina, currently under
implementation. While the project suffered serious delays in the beginning,
primarily because of the macroeconomic difficulties at the time (1988-1990), it
quickly recovered and is now scheduled to be completed within the original time
period (completion date June 30, 1995). In terms of its investment objectives,
it has been extremely successful in the timely provision of urgently needed
urban infrastructure. Its main achievement in terms of its policy objectives was
the introduction of simple, but effective fiscal conditions as preconditions for
access to investment funds.  In so doing, the project will have made a
significant contribution to the fiscal objectives of the Government. Indeed, all
subloans have been fully repaid on time by the municipalities, maldng it
unnecessary for the provinces to draw on municipal coparticipaci6n funds.
Lastly, with respect to institutional strengthening, this was not a primary
objective of the project and the corresponding component has been only partly
successful. Nevertheless, the project has been able to establish and maintain
strong and effective provincial units with good administrative, managerial, and
operational capabilities. This has been a major factor in the successful imple-
mentation of the project. It has also begun a process of strengthening these
capabilities in the participating municipalities.
8.    Reflecting the experience and lessons of other municipal development
projects, the success of the Argentina project in terms of investments has been
due primarily to the following factors: (a) the concentration on small, simple
and easy to implement investments; (b) the coverage of a large number of
interested municipalities; (c) the maintenance of very competent local executing



- 36 -                       Annex A
units; and (d) the flexibility of shifting and reallocating loan funds among
competing provinces.
9.    A related factor in the success of this project has been the quite limited
role assigned to the federal level.  In fact, there is only a one-person
coordinating office in charge mainly of routine contacts with the Bank and some
very limited review functions. This has avoided the delays usually created by
a large, controlling central unit, and greatly contributed to the efficient imple-
mentation of this project.
10.   Many of the factors listed above were also crucial to the achieved policy
objectives. In addition, this project benefitted by having only a few and simple
"pass - no pass" fiscal conditions. These were easy to quantify, easy for the
municipalities to understand, and simple for the Bank to review and approve.
11.   In terms of institutional strengthening programs, the limited success in
this project can be attributed primarily to the initial lack of understanding (by
both the provinces and municipalities) of the link between such programs and
the ability of municipalities to expand their borrowing capacity. This was
because these programs were promoted and justified on their own merits, rather
than as a means to facilitate the achievement of other project objectives and
goals.  The lack of interest in this component was also affected by the
reluctance of municipalities to borrow for these types of programs. However,
the provinces have carried out many institutional strengthening programs with
their own resources, and therefore, the limited use of loan funds may not
properly reflect the actual extent of these activities.
Strategy
12.   Given the above experiences and lessons, the proposed project would
follow, with respect to investment objectives, a strategy containing these
elements:
(a)    maintain the principle of competition among provinces and
municipalities to enable loan funds to be reallocated away from
"non-performing" to more agile units;
(b)   keep most individual investments simple, easy to prepare, justify,
review and procure;
(c)   establish simple and standardized procurement procedures and
documents;



- 37 -                        Annex A
(d)   promote the use of larger consulting  firms for standard
procurement processes;
(e)    complete the preparation of investments for at least the first year
of implementation prior to negotiations;
(f)    delegate all possible implementation responsibilities to the
individual provinces, while maintaining only the smalluest possible
central unit; and
(g)   ensure the existence of proper incentives for participation in the
project, particularly by insisting on sufficiently transparent and
predictable revenue sharing systems as a condition of eligibility,
and by limiting discretionary funds (i.e., those without condi-
tions) available to municipalities.
13.   With respect to policy objectives, the proposed project would try to
integrate the following factors:
(a)   limit conditions related to policy reforms to only a few selected
and reasonable items;
(b)   define these reforms and conditions in simple terms, preferably
of the "pass - no pass type (i.e., which do not require extensive
studies, analysis, or complicated formulas); and
(c)   require only conditions which will be significant but not so
onerous as to encourage municipalities to seek discretionary funds
from other sources.
14.   With respect to institutional strengthening activities, the proposed
project would:
(a)    emphasize the importance of these programs as a vehicle for
improved capacity to obtain investment funds;
(b)   promote the use of standard assistance packages coordinated (and
perhaps prepared and financed) at the provincial level; and
(c)   seek ways to reduce the cost of these activities, e.g., through
matching grants from the provinces or through bilateral grants.



- 38 -                     Annex B
Population Growth and Distribution
Demographic Profile
1.    Argentina is one of the most urbanized countries in Latin America, with
the unique characteristic that urbanization was well advanced even before World
War II. In 1991, 87% of the of the total population lived in urban areas of
2,000 or more inhabitants. Despite its high level of urbanization, Argentina is
still experiencing significant growth in its urban population, which grew from
23.2 million in 1980 to 28.4 million in 1991 (1.85% per year) as shown in
Table B. 1. Conversely, rural population decreased at a rate of 0. 82 % per year
over the same period.
2.    Argentina is also one of the Latin American countries in which the urban
population is more heavily concentrated, with only three cities (Buenos Aires,
C6rdoba and Santa Fe) comprising over 41 % of the total population. This
concentration of the population in a few major urban areas contributes to the
high density disparities among provinces, ranging from 41 inhabitants per km2
in Buenos Aires to 0.7 inhabitants per km2 in Santa Cruz (see Table B.2).
3.    The 13 provinces participating in the project constitute 70% of the total
population. According to their size, these provinces can be divided into two
major groups: (a) four highly-populated provinces (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba,
Mendoza, and Santa Fe) with 19.6 million inhabitants (60% of the total
Argentine population); and (b) nine less-populated provinces (Catamarca,
Corrientes, Formosa, La Pampa, La Rioja, Misiones, Neuquen, Santa Cruz, and
Tierra del Fuego) with 3.3 million inhabitants (only 10% of the total
population).
Distribution of Municipalities
4.   In Argentina, municipalities are recognized by the National Constitution
as an independent level of government. However, the criteria that determine
municipalities are defined by each province in its Carta Orgdnica. Thus, there
are as many different definitions of municipalities as there are provinces.
5.    Overall, municipalities can be distinguished into two groups according
to their geographic base.
(a)   Territorial municipalities.   These municipalities cover a
geographical territory. In each territorial municipality there can
be one or more urban areas. Buenos Aires, Mendoza, and La
Rioja have adopted this type of municipalities.



- 39 -                        Annex B
(b)   Urban municipalities. These municipalities are urban areas, and
their geographic limits coincide with those of the urban area. In
the provinces which have adopted this type of municipality, the
provinces have jurisdiction over rural areas.   Under this
definition, city size is generally the criteria used to define a
municipality, with the particular population threshold varying
greatly from  province to province.  Ten of the provinces
participating in the project have urban municipalities.
6.    Table B.3 shows the total population and number of potential participants
in the program by province. All urban areas with 500 inhabitants or more have
been included in the case of provinces with urban municipalities, as each
province can potentially make all urban areas eligible to participate in the
project, independently of the particular population criteria specified in the Carta
Orgdnca.' Including both territorial and urban municipalities, there are a total
of 912 potential participants in the program, with more than 21.7 million
inhabitants.
1     Tis was the case in Santa Fe under the first Municipal Development Project.



- 40 -                          Annex B
Tble B.1: Urban & Rural Population by Province, 1980 - 1991
.....  .,                 j..,,.0,-0- , --..f. -.,   ....   .......
._.  .   ..   "'.'. '  j                         N10 )  J  j 
Totali 23,191  28,357        1.85%   4,737   4,328         -0.82%
IBRD/IDB Provinces
Buenos Aires    10,123  11,894         1.48%    743      686         -0.72%
C6rdoba          1,944   2,332         1.67%    464      461         -0.06%
Mendoza            824   1,100         2.65%     372     314         -1.52%
Santa Fe         2.023   2.391         1.53%    286   .263           -0.76%
Subtotal 14,913  17,717        1.58%   1,865   1,724         -0.71%
IBRD Provinces
Catamarca          120     185         4.05%      88      81         -0.80%
Corrientes        426     587          2.96%    236      208         -1.12%
Formosa            165    281          4.97%     113     107         -0.54%
La PaMpa           135    193          3.29%      73      67         -0.78%
La Rioja           101     165         4.57%      63      55         -1.19%
Misiones          297     499          4.83%    292      290         -0.05%
Neuqu6n            184    336          5.64%      58      53         -0.80%
Santa Cnuz         100     147         3.60%     443     373         -l.55%
Tieffa del Fuego    _24    67          9.74%       3       2         -3.84%
Subtotal  1,551   2,461        4.28%   1,369   1,236         -0.92%
Other Provinces   3,804   5,166        2.82%   1,503   1,367         -0.85%
Fedeal Capita    2,923   3,013         0.28%       0       0          0.00%
Soume: INDEC C.nus of Populatio 1980 and 1991.



- 41 -                           Annex B
Table B.2: Population, Density & Growth by Province
I ; E ' ,: Popua6 t-       ,       -      -      :      ,      si  .:.er. '
Provi               9      19   Growth Ra  (%       g q. hm.)  s    .  991)
Totals 27,948  32,616              1.41 2,758,829            11.8
IBRD/IDB Provinces
Buenos Aires     10,865   12,595             1.35   307,571            40.9
C6rdoba           2,408   2,767              1.27   168,766            16.4
Mendoza           1,196    1,412             1.52   148,827             9.5
Santa Fe          2.466   2.798              1.16   133.007            21.0
Subtotal 16,935   19,573             1.32   758,171           25.8
IBRD Provinces
Catamarca           208     264              2.20   100,967             2.6
Corrientes          661     796              1.70    88,199             9.0
Formosa             296     398              2.74    72,066             5.5
La Pampa            208     260              2.05   143,440             1.8
La Rioja            164     221              2.74    89,680             2.5
Misiones            589     789              2.69    29,801            26.5
Neuquen             244     389              4.33    94,078             4.1
Santa Cruz          115     160              3.04   243,943             0.7
Tierra del Fuego     29      69              8.12        -
Subtotal  2,514   3,346             2.63   862,174             3.9
Other Provinces    5,576   6,732             1.73  1,138,284            5.9
Federal Capital   2,923   2,965              0.13       200        14,827.0
Source: INDEC Census of Population 1980 and 1991.



- 42 -                            Annex B
Table B.3: Number and Population of Potential Participants by Province
'Provinces                             NOber:aot Potential      Population
0        Participants:  (i fIn0Ot 1991J
TOTAL                                          912                   21,659.3
Buenos Aires '                                 127                   12,582.3
Catamarca                                      46                       218.4
Cordoba                                        219                    2,475.0
Corrientes                                     53                       614.6
Formosa                                        35                       295.6
La Pampa                                       46                       221.7
La Rioja L'                                    18                       220.7
Mendoza!Y                                      18                     1,414.1
Misiones                                       69                       534.9
Neuqudn                                        27                       346.8
Santa Cruz                                     17                       151.6
Santa Fe                                       235                    2,516.3
Tierra del Fuego                                2                        67.4
3/     Buenos Airms, La Rioja, and Mendoza have territorial municipalitics. Thus, there mfuay be one
or more urban areas within one municipality.
Sources: INDEC Census of Population 1991 and data from provinces.



-43-                        Annex C
Demand for Municipal Infrastructure
Unmet Needs for Municipal Infrastructure
1.    As shown in Table C. 1, urban agglomerations in the participating
provinces still have considerable unmet needs for municipal infrastructure.
There is greater need for paving and sanitation systems than for water and street
lighting. For instance, the percentage of those without paved roads ranges from
68% in Misiones to 26% in Bahfa Blanca. Similarly, the percentage of those
without sewerage mains ranges from over 75 % in C6rdoba and Misiones to 18 %
in Santa Cruz.
2.    In terms of the spatial distribution of unmet infrastructure needs, there
is a higher absolute need in the three largest provinces (Buenos Aires, Santa Fe,
and C6rdoba), which have over half of the total number of poor households in
the country. Although the percentage of unmet infrastructure needs is higher
in provinces with smaller populations, there are fewer households than in the
largest provinces.
Potential Demand for Municipal Infrastructure
3.    The estimated potential demand was based on a demand survey
conducted during preparation of the project. The survey was administered in
70 municipalities in the participating provinces, which were asked among other
items to identify infrastructure needs or subprojects. These subprojects, in turn,
were assigned a cost following a well-defined methodology based on existing
data from similar subprojects. Only highly regarded subprojects were included
in the sample. Once the sample was defined, it was expanded to estimate total
demand. The data collected from larger municipalities, mainly those in the
larger provinces, was not expanded because the sample covered all of these
municipalities.
4.    The estimated potential demand for basic municipal infrastructure in the
13 provinces is approximately US$1.3 billion, of which 90% are subprojects
under US$1.5 million. The municipalities' identified needs can be classified in
17 sectors, ranging from water connections to cemeteries. However, most of
the subprojects identified are in the street paving and sanitation sectors, which
account for 31% (US$406 million) and 21% (US$281 million) respectively. In
the four provinces in which both banks (IBRD and IDB) would work in
parallel, subprojects with an estimated cost of US$2.0 million or more
equivalent were removed from the sample, since these subprojects would be
executed by the IDB. The estimated demand includes US$90 million equivalent
in subprojects that were identified during the first Municipal Development
Project, but because of lack of funds, could not be implemented.



- 44 -                           Annex C
Table C.1: Infrastructure Needs in Major Urban Centers and
Metropolitan Areas by Province (1988)
Provinces                Urban Center            Of lioWehol4& wivth Seiri'e Outsidc the
or Metropolitan Area   vStret  Waler Sewag e    t   Average
.___ ,__      ,____  fPavin   Maim   ZIainm   Lighting
Buenos Aires       Gran Bahia Blanca          73.9   97.3    78.7      91.1      85.3
Gran La Plata             59.9   85.9    65.0       89.2      75.0
Catamarca          Gran Catamarca             52.6   99.4    57.0      94.4      75.9
C6rdoba            Gran C6rdoba               78.1   99.1    24.7      88.4      72.6
Corrientes         Corrientes                 48.9   96.1    61.2       n.a.     68.7
Formosa            Formosa                    34.4   91.6    38.6      80.9      61.4
La Pampa           Sta. Rosa y Toay           48.7   78.8    69.2      95.1      72.9
La Rioja           La Rioja                   72.7   98.3    56.5      91.6      79.8
Mendoza            Gran Mendoza               69.5   99.9    78.9      98.2      86.6
Misiones           Posadas                    32.4   60.5    23.4      75.2      47.9
Neuquen            Neuquen                    33.6   96.8    40.5      92.5      65.9
Santa Cruz         Rio Gallegos               60.7   98.4    81.6      92.3      83.3
Santa Fe           Gran Rosario               71.6   90.8    50.2      94.0      76.7
Sta. Fe y Sto. Tomd       65.7   79.7    39.1       93.2      69.4
Tierra del Fuego   Usuahia y Rfo Grande       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.
Average  57.3   90.9    54.6       90.5      73.3
Source: Siruaci6n y Evolaci6n Social, Sintesis. NMmero 2, INDEC, 1993.



- 45 -                       Annex D
Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
Municipal Flnancial Indicators
1.    Based on 1992 municipal finance data from a stratified sample of 44
municipalities in the 13 Bank provinces representing over 20% of the total urban
population in those provinces, the following indicators were estimated for each
municipality.
(a)   Current Account Equilibrium: This was estimated as Current
Revenues (excluding discretionary transfers) / Current
Expenditures. Table D. 1 shows the percentage of municipalities
which fall within each range. Overall, current revenues exceed
current expenditures in 75 % of the municipalities. However,
current expenditures exceed current revenues by up to 25 % in the
remaining one-quarter of the municipalities. By this criteria, 75 %
of municipalities would be eligible for investments under the
project.
(b)   Total Stock of Debt / Current Revenues (excluding discretionary
transfers): This ratio which reflects the degree of indebtedness
of municipalities shows that overall, municipalities hold very
little debt. Less than 7% of all municipalities hold a total stock
of debt which exceeds 60% of their current revenues. In other
words, 93% of the municipalities would have sufficient debt
capacity to participate in this project, using this ratio.
(c)   Debt Service (Interest + Amortization) / Current Revenues
(excluding discretionary transfers): This indicator shows that
current debt service does not represent a significant burden for
the large majority of municipalities.  Less than 3%  of all
municipalities pay more than 15 % of their current revenues to
service current debts. Thus, 97% of municipalities would have
sufficient debt capacity to participate in the project, using this
indicator.
Provincial to Municipal Revenue Sharing
2.    Although provincial to municipal revenue sharing relationships are
similar to those between the central and provincial governments, each province
determines the particular allocation criteria and percentages used for both
primary and secondary distribution in a coparticipaci6n law. Table D.2 shows
the share of the revenues from provincial taxes and federal coparticipaci6n that
is automatically transferred to the municipalities as a whole, i.e., the primary



- 46 -                        Annex D
distribution. For the 13 project provinces, the primary provincial to municipal
distribution of total national automatic revenue sharing ranges from 5% in
Corrientes to 30% in Tierra del Fuego. For provincial taxes, the percentages
going to municipalities ranges from 14% in Buenos Aires and Mendoza to 809%
in Neuqu6n. In some provinces, such as Catamarca, La Rioja, Santa Fe the
percentages vary for different provincial taxes, while in Santa Cruz property and
vehicle taxes are under municipal jurisdiction.
3.    The criteria used in the secondary distribution in provincial to municipal
revenue sharing can be classified as redistributional and as fiscal incentives. In
the case of redistribution criteria, they can be characterized as proportional or
as compensatory.  Proportional redistribution criteria are those positively
correlated with the municipality's tax receipts, such as population, land surface,
and equal share. Conversely, compensatory redistribution criteria are those
inversely correlated with the municipalities' tax receipts, such as the inverse of
population and basic needs; thus, they have a greater redistributive impact. In
the case of fiscal incentives, the allocation of shared funds is based on a
measure associated with the "tax effort" of the municipality, such as tax
revenues and increases in tax receipts. Table D.3 shows that all provinces use
proportional distribution criteria, while Corrientes, La Rioja, Mendoza and
Santa Cruz also benefit less populated areas. Corrientes is the only province
that does not apply fiscal incentives as an allocation criterion.
4.    Table D.4 shows the percentage of automatic national revenue sharing
funds that are transferred to individual municipalities based on distributive and
fiscal criteria. They vary greatly, from 0% in Corrientes to 64% in La Pampa.
5.    Based on data from the same 44 municipalities described above, the
following indicators were estimated for each municipality:
(a)    Automatic Revenue Sharing Transfers (coparticipaci6n) / Current
Revenues (excluding discretionary transfers):  This indicator
reflects the proportion of municipal revenues automatically
transferred to the municipalities which are relatively predictable
and based on percentages established by coparticipaci6n laws
effective in each province. Overall, Table D.5 shows that almost
39% of municipalities receive between 40% and 60% from these
sources.
(b)   Discretionary Transfers (both grants and loans) / Total Revenues
(excluding discretionary transfers): This indicator reflects the
dependency of individual provinces on discretionary funds, which
are fluctuating and quite unpredictable. These transfers represent
less than 5% of current revenues for the majority of



- 47 -                           Annex D
municipalities (64%). However, some provinces such as La
Rioja have a chronic dependence on this type of source.
Municipal Debt Capacity
6.     Based on data from the same 44 municipalities, debt capacity as shown
in Table D.6 was estimated for each municipality as 60% of Current Revenues
minus Total Stock of Debt. Debt capacity was subsequently added by province
to obtain debt capacity for the sample at the provincial level. This was then
divided by the urban population represented in the sample to obtain the per
capita urban debt capacity by province. The total municipal debt capacity in
each province was estimated by multiplying the corresponding per capita urban
debt capacity by the total urban population in the province.' The overall debt
capacity is almost US$2.5 billion, with municipalities in the four largest
provinces (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Mendoza and Santa Fe) holding almost 95 %
of the total debt capacity.
I             dc = (.60 * CR) - TD
where dc is smple Debt Capacity, CR are Current Revenues and TD is Total Debt;
dc(P) = SUM {dc)
where dc(P) is the overall sample municipal Debt Capacity by province;
DC, = DC(P) / up
where DC, is the per capita urban debt capacity by province, UP is the urban population in the sample;
DC(P) = DP, * UP
where DC(P) is the overall debt capacity by province, UP is the urban population in the province.



- 48 -                             Annex D
Table D.1: Percentage of Municlpalies By Current Account
EquilIbrhum (1992)
Curfent Account Equilibrium                                    100.0%
(Current Revenues Y' / Current Expenditures)
80%-90%                                                 15.9%
90%-95%                                                 6.8%
95%-100%                                                2.3%
100%-110%                                               18.2%
+110%                                                  56.8%
Total Stock of Debt / Curret RevenuekW                         100.0%
0-2%                                                    61.4%
2%-S%                                                   9.1%
5%-10%                                                  4.6%
10%-20%                                                 9.1%
20%-30%                                                 6.8%
30%-60%                                                 2.3%
+60%                                                    6.8%
Debt Sevice 2' / Current Revenues k'                           100.0%
0-5%                                                    90.9%
5%-10%                                                  6.8%
10%-15%                                                 0.0%
15%-20%                                                 0.0%
+20%                                                    2.3%
Basd on a umpb of 44 municipalities in the province coMrpoOding to do proqct.
hi excludes discrtionary tansfe.
/      kIt includes amortization.
Source: Data coOected from province by Dank mission.



- 49 -                                      Annex D
Table D.2: Criteria for Provincial to Municipal Revenue Sharing of
National Automatic Revenue Sharing Funds and Provincial Taxes:
Primary Distribution
Buenos Aires                                    14.0                            14.0
Catanuarca                                       10.0"                          8.5
C6rdoba                                         14.9                           14.9
Correntes ~'50.0                                                                5.0
Formosa                                          12.0                           12.0
LA Pampa                                        21.0                            10.7
La Rioja                                        20.0 2'                         10.0
Mendoza 4'14.0                                                                  14.0
Misiones                                         12.0                           12.0
Neuqu& 4'                                       80.0                           20.0
Santa Cruz LI                                    40.0                           11.0
Sat  Fe                                     50.0                           13.4
Tierra del Fuego 4'                             60.0                           30.0
V   In Cataffarca, municipalities receive 10%, 28% and 70% from revenues from property, gross income,
and vehicle taxes.
T'hewe percentages determine minimumn level of funding.
Y   In LA Rioja, municipalities receive 20 % and 50 % of revenues from gross income and vehicle taxes
respectively.
di  Mendoza, Neuqu6n, Santa Cruz and Tierra del Fuego also receive a percentage of oil revenues.
el       In Santa Fe, munjicipalities receive 13.43 % of sale tax revenues and national automiatic revenue sharing
fuends, as wel a 50.0% and 90.0% of revenues fr4om property and vecle taxes respectively.
Source: Lay Nacionai 23.548, 1928



-50 -                                      Annex D
Table D.3: Criteria for Provincial to Municipal Revenue Sharing of
National Automatic Revenue Sharing Funds and Provincial Taxes:
Secondary Distribution
-:         :::            ::              :    :   :         ::JR sXt i
Buenos Aires                x              x                                       x          x
Catamarc-a                  x                          x                                      x
C6rdoba                     x                          x                                      x
Corrientes                  x                                        x
Formosa                     x                          x                                      x
La Pampa                    x                          x                                      x
La Rioja                    x                                        x                        x
Mendoza                     x                                        xx
Misiones L'
Neuqu&n                     x                          x                                      x
Santa Cruz                  x                          x             x                        2
SantaiFe                    x                          x                                      x
Tieffa del Fuego            x                          x                                      x
I/  Information on the criteria uaed in secondary distribution in Mfisiones is noa svaiLable.
Misiones' Ley de Coparicipaddn determines scondary distribution based on fixed coefficients basd on
criteria not explicitly specified.
jj       In Santa Cniz, coUection of property an vehicle taxes is under municipal jurisdiction.
Source: Ley Nacional 23.548, 1988



- 51 -                               Annex D
Table D.4: Percentage of National Sharing Funds to Municipalities
Allocated Based on Hscal Effort: Secondary Distribution
-rb~ie  % Automai        : Crtia Used in Sodary Diddl *a
-: -Na-i:n: Re,eoe                 Redstbuto--  -  -'~  :
Buenos Aires               100.0                    86.7                 13.3
Catamarca                  100.0                    80.3                 19.7
C6rdoba                    100.0                    55.5                 24.5
Coffientes                 100.0                   100.0                  0.0
Formosa                    100.0                    70.0                 30.0
La Pampa                   100.0                    35.7                 64.3
La Rioja                   100.0                    97.0                  0.3
Mendoza                    100.0                    65.0                 35.0
MisionesW                   100.0                   n.a.                 n.a.
Neuqu6n                    100.0                    55.0                 45.0
Santa Cruz                 100.0                   100.0                  0.0
Santa Fe                   100.0                    76.2                 23.8
Tierra del Fuegof          100.0                    n.a.                 n.a.
/         sMisioner' Ly de Cop wicfpad&s determines econdary distribution based on fixed coefficients not
explicitly specilied.
Data on percentages for the allocation criteria uwed for secondary distribution in 1arra del Puego ae
misring.
Sources: Provincial Laws gaverning revenue sharing.



- 52 -                              Annex D
Table D.5: Percentage of Municipalities By National Automatic Revenue
Sharing and Discretionary Transfers as a Proportion of Current
Revenues (1992)
Automatic Revenue Sharing / Current Revenues                      100.0%
0-20%                                                      15.9%
20%-40%                                                    34.1%
40%-60%                                                    38.6%
60%-80%                                                    6.8%
+80%                                                       4.6%
Discretionary Transfers / Current Revenuesa                        100.0%
0-5%                                                       63.6%
5%-10%                                                     9.1%
10%-20%                                                    11.4%
20%-40%                                                    6.8%
40%-60%                                                    2.3%
60%-80%                                                    6.8%
a/      Based on a sample of 44 municipalities in the provinces corresponding to the project.
b/     It excludes discretionary trAnsfers.
Source: Data collected from provinces by Bank mission.



- 53 -                            Annex D
Table D.6: Debt Capacity for All Municipalities
(in 1992 USS)
,...''.',""':,,,.,,..... ...  . ,       ,       .       ,       T , . ,' ,,.,. t. 
, ., . , , :1             :-W.- ,.b
.  ; ,    N    .   .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ......   ...    ..
TOTAL                  4,267,883           146.7    20,177,000          2,960.2
Bhueos Aires           1,259,308           176.4     11,894,000         2,098.6
Catewulca               114,566             40.8        185,000             7.5
C6rdoba                1,363,872           132.0      2,332,000           307.9
Corientes               361,410             34.9        587,000            20.5
Formosa                     n.a.            n.s.        281,000            n.a.
LA PaMpa                  10,658            78.7        193,000            15.2
La Rioja                 118,234            20.4        165,000             3.4
Mendoza                 547,660             74.5      1,100,000            82.0
Misiones                286,507             61.5        499,000            30.7
Neuqudn                   7,549            115.4        336,000            38.8
Santa Cuz                   n.a.            n.a.        147,000            n.a.
Santa Fe                 150,914           133.9      2,391,000           320.2
Tioa del Fuego            32,397           530.5         67,000            35.5
It     Based on a mnple of 44 municipalitie in the provinces coneqonding to the proe.
Debt capacity  calculated as (.60 RC) - D} where RC are curret account fids, uad D is currat debt.
Sourc: Data collected fiom provinc by Bnk minion.



- 54 -                        Annex E
Initial Allocation and Commitment Fees by Province
Initial Allocations
1.    About US$129 million of loan funds will be allocated in the first stage
lasting three years. This represents the allocation of funds to each province
based on a formula which gives equal weight to:  (a) the provinces's
participation in the revenue sharing system of the Central Government; and (b)
the province's population size. The only exception would be that the largest
four provinces (Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Santa Fe and Mendoza) would receive
only half of their theoretical allocation because they would be receiving an equal
amount from the companion IDB loan. The remaining amounts would be part
of the unallocated resource "pool" (see Table E. 1). The reason for having an
initial assignment is to allow all provinces a fair chance to use the loan
proceeds. If there were no initial assignments, the more efficient provinces
might use all of the resources before the less efficient ones could act. Less
efficient provinces might not even try to compete. The resources in the "pool"
would be available to any province that had committed all of its initial
assignment to approved subprojects on a first come, first served basis.
2.    After the three-year period, all the initially allocated resources not
committed to approved subprojects will also go to the "pool" to be allocated on
a first come, first serve basis. The "pool" then rewards the provinces that are
more efficient in subproject execution and introduces an element of competition
into the assignment of resources among the provinces. Provinces have to utilize
their initial assignments of loan proceeds by the end of the three-year period or
compete with other provinces for them once they become part of the "pool."
3.    The following criteria were used in allocating the half of the loan that
would initially be assign among the provinces.
(a)   Coefficients of Coparticipaci6n:  Half of the initially
assigned amount is allocated among the potentially
eligible provinces based on the secondary distribution
coefficients  used  in   national  to   provincial
coparticipaci6n.'   These  coefficients  are  strongly
redistributive, favoring the poorer and less populated
provinces at the expense of the more developed and
heavily populated ones.
1     The coefficient used for each province is obtained by dividing the coefficient of
coparticipacion of the province by the sum of the coefficients of coparnicipacion of
all the participating provinces.



- 55 -                      Annex E
(b)   Population:  the other half is allocated among the
potentially eligible provinces based on the distribution of
population - a proxy for actual potential demand.
Commitment Fees
4.    Provinces are expected to pay an 0.25 % commitment fee for those funds
that are initially allocated and have not yet been disbursed. Table E. 1 shows
what provinces would pay in commitment fees based on the initial loan
allocation and assuming that no disbursements were made after a year. Should
initially allocated funds that were not used by a province transfer to the general
pool after three years, the province which makes use of the funds will be
responsible for past commitment fees. All provinces will pay commitment fees
on the resources in the "pool" in accordance with the same criteria used in the
initial allocation with compensation by those provinces that actually use the
resources.
Ilitial Loan Allocation, Potential Demand, and Debt Capacity
5.    Table E.2 shows the comparison between initial loan allocation, potential
demand and debt capacity for all participating provinces. From the comparison,
it is clear that potential demand and debt capacity exceed initial loan allocations
by an ample margin. Total estimated potential demand exceeds initial loan
allocation by eight times for the province of Santa Cruz, and by as much as 35
times for the province of La Rioja. Similarly, debt capacity exceeds initial loan
allocation by 1.5 in the case of La Rioja, and up to 50 times in the case of
Tierra del Fuego. These results indicate that the funds made available through
this loan would be used by the participating provinces.



- 56 -                                     Annex E
Table E.1: Initial Assignment and Commitment Fees Based on National
to Provincial Revenue Sharing (50%) and Population (50%) Distributions
IBRD Loan =    $210,000,000
Initial Assignment =    $129,838,243
'Pool' of Unassigned Resources =           $80,161,757
Commitment Fee =                 0.25%
1: SP,,as        ( tf  WAJ%f *I   t of      [A+13ji2    ID   olRD al    C m-          --A
Iff C 1ip         f   -f; -10   ; sAhualsla    Aver  do   4Uca  io)V  p,,hihd.''
Totas         100.00%       100.00%     100.00%   $129,838,243        $324,500      22,918        $14.83
IBRD/IDB Provinces
Buenos Aires             33.62%        54.96%       44.29%    S46,504,189       S116,260       12,595        33.69
Santa Fe                 13.68%        12.21%       12.95%    S13,594,558        S33,986       2,798         $4.36
C6rdoba                  13.60%        12.07%       12.83%    S13,475,359        S33,688       2,767         S4.87
Mendoza                   6.38%         6.16%        6.27%     S6.587.651        S16.469        1412.        $4.66
Subtotal        67.29%        85.40%       76.34%    $80,161,757       S200,404       19,573        $4.10
EEBRD Provinces
Corrientes                5.69%         3.47%       4.58%      $9,621,400        S24,053         796        $12.09
Misiones                  5.06%         3.44%        4.25%     $8,925,030        $22,313         789        $11.31
Fonnosa                   5.57%         1.74%       3.66%      $7,677,790        $19,194         398        $19.27
Catamarca                 4.22%         1.15%       2.69%      $5,638,597        $14,096         264        $21.34
Neuqu6n                   2.66%         1.70%       2.18%      $4,571,678        $11,429         389        $11.76
L.a Rioja                 3.17%         0.96%       2.07%      $4,340,113        310,850         221        $19.66
La Pampa                  2.88%         1.13%        2.00%     $4,210,235        510,526         260        $16.19
Santa Cruz                2.42%         0.70%        1.56%     $3,274,828         $8,187         160        $20.49
Tierra del Fuego          1.05%         0.30%        0.67%     S1.416.817         S3.542          69        $20.42
Subtotal        32.71%        14.60%       23.66%    $49,676,487       5124,191        3,346       $14.S5
a/ IDB will finane half of the initial allocation of the four largest provinces; hence the anmounta shown are one half of thd tot  amol t
available to the four under the initial allocation of the joint progam.
Sources: CoparicipacOn Distribution from Dirccci6n Nacional de Coordinacin Fiscal con a Provvnd as, and Populati(o data from INDEC
Census of Population, 1991



- 57 -                                    Annex E
Table E.2: Total Potential Municipal Demand for Loan Proceeds,
Municipal Debt Capacity, and Initial Loan Allocation by Province
(in 1992 US$ millions)
PFWToalsi             I Tot  Debt   I  tia  Lan
1   Danand W            Capacity l' Assignnte   st
TOTAL                                               1,326.4          2,960.2              129.8
Buenos Aires                                          372.3          2,098.6               46.5
Catamarca                                              65.0               7.5                5.6
C6rdoba                                               143.9            307.8                13.5
Corrientes                                             55.7              20.5                9.6
Formosa                                                81.0              n.a.                7.7
La Pampa                                               30.2              15.2                4.2
La Rioja                                               76.9               3.4                4.3
Mendoza                                               169.7              82.0                6.6
Misiones                                               85.4              30.7                8.9
Neuquen                                                70.3              38.8                4.6
Santa Cruz                                              13.5             n.a.                3.3
Santa Fe                                              148.1            320.2                13.6
Tierra del Fuego                                        14.5             35.5                1.4
a/       Total etimated demand is calculated bcaed on a stratified sauple of 107 municipa ities in the participating
provinces and adjusted for total population by province (Annex C).
b/       Debt capacity is calculated based on financial data from a tratified sample of 44 municipalities in the
participating provinces and adjusted by total population by province (Annex C).
c/       Initial loan allocation among provinces is based on two different criteria: (1) 50% is calculated based on the
coefficients used to asign national revenue-sharing funds among provinces; and (iH) 50% is baeed on total
population in the provinces.



- 58 -                       Annex F
Economic Analysis
1.    The economic evaluation of the program was done based on a sample of
17 sanitary, paving, and street lighting subprojects representative of about 54%
of the total potential demand.' The overall weighted internal economic rate of
return (IERR) shown on Table F. 1 was estimated in three stages as follows:
(a)   IERR by subproject: The IERR was estimated using one of the
following benefit-estimation methods:
Hedonic Prices:  In the hedonic price method, marketed
commodities such as housing are considered to have a range of
attributes or services, with its implicit prices being reflected in
the total commodity price paid. The method derives estimates of
these implicit prices by observing how the price of the
commodity varies with its attributes. Using the hedonic price
method, the implicit value of a particular urban service, such as
street paving, street lighting, or sewage connections, is derived
by observing how property values vary depending on whether the
service exists or not.
Contingent Valuation: The contingent valuation method is useful
to derive the value of non-marketed commodities for which
relevant behavior is not observable. The method overcomes the
lack of an observable market by presenting respondents with an
hypothetical market. Using contingent valuation, the value of a
particular service improvement is derived based on respondents'
stated choices in an hypothetical market that presents them with
the improvement in question, the institutional structure under
which it would be provided, etc. Their responses are taken as
valid indicators of how these individuals would behave if such
market existed.
Expected Losses: In the expected losses method, the value of a
particular subproject is derived based on all the losses (i.e,
property damage, foregone income, etc.) that would be avoided
as a result of such subproject over its life expectancy. Expected
losses are estimated as the value of the loss multiplied by the
probability of its occurrence. For instance, in the case of a
Potential demand was estimated based on a stratified sample of 107
municipalities in the participating provinces and adjusted by total
population by province (see Annex C).



- 59 -                        Annex F
flood-control project that is expected to last 50 years, the value
of the subproject is estimated as the value of all the losses that
would result from flooding over the 50-year life of the project,
affected by the probability of their occurrence (i.e., the losses
that would result from a 100-year flood would be valued at half
their value).
(b)   Weighted [ERR by subprojects in the subsector: For each of
the three subsectors represented in the sample (i.e., sanitation
and flooding, urban roads, and lighting works), the average IERR
was estimated by weighting the average IERR of each subproject
by its cost relatively to the total cost of all subprojects in the
subsector. In particular,
IERR,P() = E ierr(,, * c(,, / C(,>
where IERR(,) is the weighted rate of return for each subsector in
the sample, ierr(;) is the subproject rate of return, c<;> is the cost
of the subproject, and C(,) is the sum of the costs of all
subprojects in the subsector, namely, C(,) = E c(D.
(c)    Overall IERR weighted by subsectors in the project: This was
estimated by weighting the average IERR of each subsector in the
sample by the cost of the subsector in the project relatively to
the total cost of the project. In particular,
IERR<  = E ierr(8) * c(s) / C(p)
where IERRQ, is the weighted rate of return for the overall
project, ierr(5) is the subsector rate of return based on the sample
of subprojects, c(S,) is the cost of the subsector in the project, and
Cp) is total costs of the project.



Table F.1: Internal Economic Rates of Return for Sample Projects
Average Rate of Retumn Weighted by Investment Cost =                       19.7%
Estimated Total Potential Demand as % of Sectors Covered =                      53.5%
Estimated Total Potential Demand =  $1,326.4 million
intenul   A. R of R  Sgtore 0%
inveatmest   Econosk   Weg*,ad by    of Total
No. of        Cost        Rat of   la.w Cot of   PotastT
Type of SubprqJect                 Decsriptiou                  Province       Municipalty      Bene&larie    (US$'O00)    Retum          Smple        Daund
Totals      340,650      $53,093                     19.7%        S3.S%
I  Sanitation/Flood    Pump station and dike                  Entre Riot    C. de Uruguay             12,500       $3,193       18.5%
2  Sanitation/Drainage Collector and Canals in the North Sector  Catamarca    Catanarca                9,900         S532       21.7%
3  Sanitation/Drainage Collector and Canals for the city      Chubut        Pto. Madryn               17,500        $5,091      17.1%
4  Sanitation/Drainage 2nd, 3rd & 4th stages, South sector of city    C6rdoba  Rio Cuarto             55,000        $9,174      25.4%
5  Sanitation/Drainage Network of collectors for the city     C6rdoba       Villa del Rosario          9,500        $2,527      16.2%
6  Sanitation/Drainage Network of coUectors for the city       Entre Rios    Concordia                26,500        $2,994      21.8%
7  Sanitation/Drainage Network of collectors for the city     Corrientes    Paso de Los Libres         4,300        $1.095       19.6%
Subtotal      135,200      $24,606                    21.1%        21.1%
8  Urban Roads        Paving, drainage and a vehicle bridge   C6rdoba       BelIville                 27,000        $2,277      17.3%
9  Urban Roads        Paving and illumination                 C6rdoba       Marcos Juarcz              4,000        $2,621      24.4%
10  UrbanRoads        Pavingof96blocks                         EntreRios    Crespo                      3,200       $3,1S3       14.1%
11  UebnRoads         PavinganddrainageofIllblocks             EntreRios    Nogoya                     21,500       $5,326       13.5%
12  Urban Roads       Paving of 70 blocrk                      San Luis      San LuiS                 110,000       52,171       37.9%
13  UrbanRoads        Paving of 70 blocks and ilurnination     Mendoza       Tupungato                  3,500       S1,301       21.1%
14  Urban Roads       Paving and drainage of 100 blocks        Santa Fe      Constituci6n               9,500       $4,722       12.2%
15  Urban Roads       Paving and drainage of 106 blocks        Rio Negm      Viedma                    12.600       S4.793       17.1%
Subtotal      191,300      $26,394                     17.S%       30.6%
16  Lighting           Mumination improvemewa for 200 blocks    Rio Negro    Atlen                      7,700         $964       37.1%
17  Lighting           IlluminAtion improvements for 230 blocks    San Juan  San Juan                   6.450        $1.130      21.S%
Subtotal       14,150       $2,094                    28.8%         1.8%
Source: Project Preparmtion Team of the Sccretary of Social Development.



- 61 -                      Annex G
Implementation and Supervision Arrangements
1.    Overall supervision responsibility for the project would rest with the
Borrower's Ministry of Economy, but actual implementation would be the
responsibility of each participating province and the respective municipalities.
Overall coordination of project execution would be delegated to the Under
Secretariat of Housing (SV) in the Secretariat of Social Development of the
Presidency. The SV has established a Central Coordinating Unit (CCU) for the
project and the parallel IDB-supported operation. It will provide general
coordination and support to the provincial executing agencies, managing the
flow of documents required by the Bank and the provinces administering the
Special Account and all actions related to disbursements and audit reports, as
well as monitoring and reporting on project implementation (including
independent opinions on the semi-annual performance reports prepared by each
province). The CCU would also coordinate the dissemination of experience and
techniques to the provinces, carry out a number of key studies related to the
financial and managerial situation and needs of municipalities, and coordinate
other functions on behalf of, and at the request of, the provinces. The specific
functions of the CCU have been detailed in the Project Operations Manual, and
a corresponding document is available in the Project File.
2.    Each province would form a Provincial Executing Unit (PEU) that would
be primarily responsible for implementation, supervision and evaluation of all
project activities in the province. The PEUs would not be large entities, nor
would they duplicate the functions and tasks of existing agencies. Rather, they
would function under the authority of the Provincial Governors to ensure, in
addition to performing directly all planning, programming, supervision and
reporting duties, that all project activities are properly coordinated with the
relevant provincial ministries and agencies necessary for successful project
implementation. The PEUs would also furnish semi-annual reports, commenting
on the performance by the Province and its Municipalities with regard to their
obligations under the respective subsidiary Loan Agreement and Subloan
Agreements, including compliance with procurement procedures. The model
to be followed would be similar to the executing units established in the five
provinces belonging to the ongoing Municipal Development Project (Loan 2920-
AR). A detailed description of these functions has been inserted in the Project
Operations Manual and is available in the Project File.
3.    Because each province has its own constitution, and administrative
organization, and because the real structure of authority may be different from
the formal one, there is no ideal institutional model for the PEU. There are,
however, common institutional needs for which specific arrangements will be
made in each province. The most important of these needs are as follows:



- 62 -                       Annex G
(a)   Project implementation requires inputs from  many sectors.
Sectoral management varies in each province, but typical
examples of project implementation inputs would be: verification
of proper use of provincial design standards for municipal
physical works proposals; ex-ante review of all procurement
procedures and certification of proper execution of civil works;
verification of municipal creditworthiness; design of municipal
training programs to improve financial management; and design
of municipal technical assistance programs to improve
maintenance procedures.
(b)   The PEU would have a staff adequate to the task of coordinating
intersectoral subprojects and would have ready access to
specialized agencies (e.g., the Ministry of Public Works). For
this access, it is necessary for the PEU to act directly or
indirectly with the authority of the provincial Governor (generally
the only provincial official with broad intersectoral authority).
In addition, for the PEU to have effective access to the sectoral
authorities along with the municipalities, it must have mobility,
in both the physical and the financial sense (i.e., to visit the
municipalities as well as the financial resources to react quickly
to implementation needs without undue dependence on other
institutions).
4.    There are, therefore, two basic conditions necessary for the PEU to
adequately assume its implementation responsibilities under the project: (a)
adequate staffing, with sufficient technical expertise to carry out implementation
functions directly; and (b) sufficient authority, ultimately flowing from the
Governor, to be able to mobilize and coordinate resources across provincial
agencies as well as among municipalities.
5.    Supervision of project implementation would be monitored through semi-
annual missions to Argentina complemented by semi-annual progress reports and
by periodic visits to Washington by key officials from the CCU. Because of the
project's dispersed nature, the Bank would budget about 40 staff-weeks
(including locaUly recruited staff or consultants) to provide adequate oversight
of project performance. A "project launch workshop" would coincide with the
first major Bank supervision mission. The tentative Supervision Plan is shown
in Table G. 1.



- 63 -                            Annex G
Table G.1: Supervision Plan
|  tes       Earticipant- Main: Objectivesfas
May 1995       Task Manger           Review of Project Operations Manual and
Operations Specialist   other conditions of loan effectiveness.
Sep/Oct 1995   Visit by CCU staff    Review of project start-up and actions to be
taken by initial provinces participating in the
project.
Nov/Dec 1995  Task Manager           Launch workshop and review of eligible
Operations Specialist   provinces and subproject pipeline. Review of
Procurement Specialist  subproject implementation pipeline, as well as
Disbursement Officer   implementation of procurement procedures,
accounting procedures, and Progress Reports
Mar/Apr 1996  Task Manager           Detailed review of program in a few provinces
Operations Specialist   and municipalities
Jul/Aug 1996   Visit by CCU staff    Review progress and difficulties to date; define
required actions
Sep/Oct 1996   Task Manager          Mid-term Review
Financial Analyst
Others as required
Mar/Apr 1997  Task Manager           Supervision tasks as required
Municipal Engineer
Others as required
Jul/Aug 1997   Visit by CCU staff    Detailed review of implementation
Sep/Oct 1997 * Task Manager          Supervision tasks as required
Financial Analyst
Others as required
* Addition missions would follow the same pattern until six months before project completion,
at which time an Implementation Completion Report mission would be undertaken.



Key Indicators
As of [Datel
US$ Amount
Implementalon Idioators                                                 Number   of Contracts
1 Participating Provinces (i.e., with signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements)
2 Participating Municipalities (i.e., with signed Subloan Agreements)
3 Subprojects in Annual Investments Plans
4 Subprojects Contracted
5 Subprojects Disbursing
8 Subprojects Completed
7 Cumulative Amount Disbursed to Date
8 Cumulative Amount Disbursed Six Months Ago
9 Percentage Change in Last Six Months
Development hndlotors
1 Efficiency (No. of contracted subprojects vs. No. in Annual Investment Plans)
2 Compliance with Key Covenants
(a) Provincial Audits
- No. of Audit Reports due
- No. of Audit Reports delayed
- No. of Audit Reports qualified
(b Provincial Implementation Review Reports
- Provinces in compliance with procurement guidelines
- Provinces in compliance with environmental guidelines
3 Financial Situation (current account/current revenue-discretionary grants)  1995       1998        1997      1998      1999       2000
(a) For participating municipalities                                 100          100         100       100       100        100
(b) For non-participating municipalities (sample)                    100          100         100       100       100        100
Ic) Comparison of (a) and (b) in percentage                          0%           0%          0%        0%         0%        0%
Financial Situation: Participating vs. Non-participating Municipality
100                                                                                       - -  (a) For participating municipalities
0                                                                                          (b) For non-participating municipalities
1996            1997            1998           1999            2000                       (sample)



- 65 -                         Annex H
Disbursement Schedule
The estimated disbursement schedule is based on historical data and
experience gathered under Argentina First Municipal Development Project (Loan
2920-AR), as well as the characteristics of the participating provinces and
municipalities. The schedule assumes that some expenditures would be eligible
for retroactive financing beginning 12 months prior to loan signing.
Bank Fiscal Year           199   1T    1998   19   2         0      0
Annual                        5      7    23     27    40    70    38
Cumulative                    5     12    35    62    102   172   210
00 r Piroject Disbursenent Prorile Compared to Other Relev  -W
90
80
70
J 60
50
40
3D
20
2   4   6   a  10  II2  i 4  16  to  20  22  24  25  28  30  32  34
Ouarters frin Approval Date
---------All Sectors Argentina r .  Urban Development LAC  Project Disbursement
Profilie



- 66 -                      Annex I
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.    Situaci6n y Evoluci6n Social, Sfntesis, Numero 2, INDEC, 1993.
2.    1980 Censo National de Poblaci6n y Vivienda, INDEC.
3.    1991 Censo Nacional de Poblaci6n y Vivienda, INDEC.
4.    1991 Resultados Provisionales por Localidad, Serie A, Nilmero 2,
INDEC.
5.    Ley Nacional 23.548 del 22/01/88 (Coparticipaci6n).
6.    Leyes Provinciales de Coparticipaci6n (numero de ley detalladas en el
informe de Nelida, 54-56).
7.    Operational Overview of Provinces Participating in the First Municipal
Development Project.
8.    Descriptions of functions of the CCU and PEUs.
9.    Diagn6stico del Sector Municipal Argentino, Secretarfa de Desarrollo
Social, Subsecretarfa de Vivienda, June 1994.



IBRD 26342
70          BOLIVIA                        600                                         50 
X   Cn    jI  PARAGUAY 
0 de IViuouy    j+ 
Tum6n          , ;h
V         ~~~Santiago    Res,stenc                        BR ZI
z o  8  7, @0 del Estero ;  R        osodoI L
LaRio1a0         ESTERO
LA -           .j  S AiiATA    0
30'                   SAN RIOJAr                                                                          o
J  U A          p C C> RD 0 8 A 
an un                  C6rdoba /          R
1                     \,    ( ~~~~~~~     ~     ~ ~~Porono[5
Z            ~~~~Mendoza
Z       +  @       | ~~~~~~Son Luis     ,              J                                 rr
~.SAN~
o               -)    ci <j s A N             _       _     (   U R UBUENOS AIRES&  U
0                       ~~~~~~~~      ~         ~~La Plato  p
_ Ux                   |       Santa Roso0     BUENOS O 
_ LA           AIRES
U J   Z               PAM PA
I    J O Neuquen
[, vjS ~~~A R G E NI T I Ns A
f Zg  RIO                                   SECOND MUNICIPAL
_40              6/  NEGRO                                    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 4
Carmen de
Potogones
Viedma
Project Provinces
Rowson@                      0    Province  Copitals
CHUBUT                                  &  National Copital
- _   Province Boundaries
International Boundaries
MILES 0     1 00   200    300   400   500
v   ,,.'                          |     ~~~~~~~ ~~I  I        I   
SANTA
CR UZ                         KILOMETERS 0        200      400      600     800
|_s   e                    Nf A I A  / t>,  A '.
5 0
Rio Gallegos                                                                     50
The boundaries, colors.
- '  Is.A'' J -. '  ,Q U.t -S  ! S   A  c denominations and any
other information shown
onthisr  -    do  not
imply. on the Part of
The World Bank  Gop
ony judgment on the legal
Status of any territory.
TIERRA                                 or any endorsement
or acceptance of such
D EL                                boundaries.
H0                       70o          FUEGO    6.                          50o
OCTOBER 1 994



