                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 34640-AR

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (CPL-38600 SCL-3860A SCPD-3860S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$210 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

                          SECOND MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           December 31, 2005




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Finance and Private Sector Infrastructure Network
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                 Currency Unit = Pesos
                      US$ 1.00 = 2.94 (+/-) Variable

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1-   December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCU       Central Coordinating Unit
          (Unidad de Coordinación Central)
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ID        Institutional Development
M3M       Municipality of the Third Millennium
MDF       Municipal Development Fund
MDP-I     First Municipal Development Project
MDP-II    Second Municipal Development Project
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
PEU       Provincial Executing Unit
          (Unidad Ejecutora Provincial)
POM       Project Operation Manual
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
ICTs      Information and Communication Technologies
UBNs      Unsatisfied Basic Needs
IADB      Interamerican Development Bank




               Vice President:    Pamela Cox
            Country Director:     Axel van Trotsenburg
             Sector Manager:      John Henry Stein
                Sector Leader:    Juan Gaviria
               Task Manager:      Miguel Mercado-Diaz

                                           ARGENTINA
                                       AR MUNIC DEVT II


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                     Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   13
6. Sustainability                                                                       15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      20
9. Partner Comments                                                                     22
10. Additional Information                                                              29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   37
Annex 8. Municipal Participation by Province                                            38
Annex 9. Relative Weights of Provincial Portfolio                                       39
Annex 10. Aggregate Cost Recovery Rates                                                 40
Annex 11. Cost Recovery Rates by Type of Subproject                                     41
Annex 12. Cost Recovery Rates by Province                                               42
Annex 13. Repayment of Municipal Debt to Provincial Governments by Province             43
Annex 14. Treatment of Municipal Debt by Province in the Aftermath of the Devaluation   44
Annex 15. Physical Investment and Institutional Development Subprojects by Province     47
Annex 16. Composition of the MDP-II Subproject Portfolio                                48
Annex 17. Type of Physical Subprojects by Province                                      49
Annex 18. Main Outcomes of the Municipality of the Third Millennium Pilot Program       50
Annex 19. Muncipal Development Funds by Province                                        53
Annex 20. Illustration of Institutional Development Subprojects                         54

Project ID: P006060                                                  Project Name: AR MUNIC DEVT II
Team Leader: Miguel Mercado-Diaz                                     TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR MUNIC DEVT II                                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-38600; SCL-3860A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3860S
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (44%); Sub-national government administration (20%);
                            Sanitation (18%); Solid waste management (18%)
                  Theme: Municipal finance (P); Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Pollution management and environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/12/1994                                     Effective: 12/18/1995
     Appraisal: 07/21/1994                                         MTR: 10/15/1996                  09/30/1998
      Approval: 03/23/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF ARGENTINA/HOUSING SUBSECRETARIAT
                      Other Partners:      IADB

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:             Miguel Mercado Diaz                            Mario Rothschild
ICR Primary Author:             Cecilia Zanetta


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
With the passage of the Convertibility Law in 1993, Argentina succeeded in bringing inflation under
control. At the same time, the government embarked upon an ambitious program of reforms aimed at
reducing the role of the state in the economy, liberalizing trade and reducing public deficits, which
succeeded in restoring macroeconomic stability. In 1994-1995, however, the Mexican crisis exposed the
vulnerability of the country's fragile fiscal equilibrium, prompting the government to set in motion a new
wave of reforms aimed at consolidating structural reforms and extending them to subnational governments.

To extend its reform agenda to municipal governments, the government requested the World Bank and
Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) to prepare a follow-up operation replicating the ongoing First
Municipal Development Program (Loan 2920-AR; MDP-I). Approved in 1988, the MDP-I had been
designed to help municipal governments enhance basic public management skills, rebuild their deteriorated
infrastructure, and mobilize the resources needed for public investment in a non-inflationary manner.
Although off to a slow start, the project picked up momentum once the macroeconomic environment
stabilized, generating a strong demand among municipalities in the five participating provinces. Given the
success of the MDP-I, the government requested that the new operation be extended to all 24 provincial
jurisdictions.

The project's main objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, March 6, 1995), were to
contribute to more effective public sector management at the provincial and municipal levels through
improved financing mechanisms for municipal investments and to help attain more effective fiscal
federalism by strengthening the municipalities' capacity to assume the responsibilities being transferred to
them. The project's specific objectives were to: a) mobilize external and internal resources in a non-deficit,
non-inflationary way to finance municipal investments--particularly those contributing to productive
activities; b) strengthen municipalities' capacity to plan, finance, and execute cost-effective capital
investment programs, thus assisting them to develop the capacity to eventually finance their investment
needs through the private capital markets; and c) strengthen the institutional capacity of municipalities and
provinces to manage their resources more effectively and to increase the efficiency of their systems for
delivery of services.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The operation's objectives remained unchanged during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The operation was structured around three components, with total IBRD financing of $210 million:

Component 1 ­ Municipal Infrastructure (81 percent of total project costs): This component included the
construction and rehabilitation of public infrastructure (e.g., road paving and related works, public lighting
and sanitation), community facilities (e.g., markets, and bus terminals), and equipment for other municipal
services (e.g., for road maintenance, refuse collection and disposal).
Component 2 - Institutional Strengthening (6 percent of total project costs): This component included
improvements in financial management, information systems, accounting procedures, cadastres,
maintenance procedures, and analyses to identify key policy issues and make recommendations for
improving the assignment of revenues and responsibilities between the provincial and municipal levels of
government. While provinces could use up to 5 percent of the amount of the loan to finance their own
institutional strengthening, the bulk of the funds were to be used by municipal governments.
Component 3 - Project Administration, Monitoring and Auditing (13 percent of total project costs): This



                                                      - 2 -

component financed the costs related to the project's administration, monitoring, reporting and auditing.

3.4 Revised Components:
An additional `sub-component'--the so-called Municipalities of the Third Millennium (M3M) pilot
program--was added to the Institutional Development Component as part of the project's Midterm
Review. Its objective was to demonstrate the benefits arising from sound financial practices and enhanced
municipal management by financing comprehensive reform packages in pilot municipalities.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The loan fully supported the government's objectives of
helping subnational governments mobilize resources for needed public investments and recurrent costs in a
non-inflationary manner, thus contributing toward protecting the still fragile macroeconomic stability
achieved after the Convertibility Law. Likewise, by advancing efforts to rebuild the infrastructure base and
extend public sector modernization to the municipal sector, the MDP-II operation directly supported the
Bank's objectives as articulated in the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No. 14278-AR).
The 1995 CAS called for Bank's assistance to Argentina to support the country's efforts to: (i) consolidate
and deepen structural reforms; (ii) reduce poverty and develop human resources; and (iii) rebuild the
greatly deteriorated infrastructure base.

This operation replicated the design of its predecessor, the MDP-I, while expanding its coverage to thirteen
provinces. The thirteen provinces originally designated to work with the IBRD were: Buenos Aires,
Catamarca, Corrientes, Córdoba, Formosa, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquén, Santa
Cruz, Santa Fe, and Tierra del Fuego. The remaining provinces participated in a sister operation being
financed by IADB. However, for different reasons, three provinces -- Formosa, La Pampa and Santa Cruz
-- chose not to participate in the project. (Formosa was not able to participate due to the lack of sufficient
indebtness capacity. La Pampa did not meet its eligibility condition of regularizing the repayment of the
municipal loan agreements signed under the MDP-I, the majority of which were in default. And Santa Cruz
as a matter of policy chose not to participate in any programs financed by international financial
institutions.) The four large provinces of Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Mendoza and Santa Fe received
financing from both the IBRD and IDB operations.

The project was structured as a portfolio operation that onlent loan proceeds to municipalities for
subprojects based on eligibility criteria set for the provinces, the municipalities, and the subprojects
themselves. Provincial eligibility criteria focused on resource mobilization, guaranteeing that shared
revenues transferred to municipalities were adequate, both in terms of the level of fiscal transfers and the
redistributive criteria.     Municipal eligibility criteria focused on creditworthiness, requiring that
municipalities meet adequate current-account surplus and debt-servicing capacity requirements to be
eligible for physical investments. Municipal creditworthiness criteria for physical investments required that
municipalities had:      a) current revenues (excluding discretionary grants) that exceeded current
expenditures; and b) debt obligations within adequate limits as defined by the following criteria: i) total
debt not to exceed 60 percent of total municipal revenues; and ii) total debt service of outstanding and
proposed loans not to exceed 15 percent of total budgeted revenues for the year of the proposed project.
Subproject eligibility criteria focused on cost recovery, guaranteeing that a minimum percentage of the cost
of physical investments would be recovered from direct beneficiaries. Cost recovery criteria required that
each annual investment plan presented by each municipality had at least 65 percent of total proposed
physical investments allocated to components for which 100 percent of total investment costs would be
fully recovered from final beneficiaries. The proceeds of the loan were onlent from the central government
to the ten participating provinces under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to the national
government. In turn, the provinces onlent to municipalities on `harder' terms to capitalize a Municipal



                                                     - 3 -

Development Fund (MDF) set up to ensure project replicability within each province.

The project followed the `demand-driven' approach that is characteristic of portfolio loans. As opposed to
the `supply-driven' approach of traditional loans in which subprojects are determined a priori,
municipalities were responsible for identifying and selecting individual subprojects according to their own
needs assessment. Thus, the portfolio of specific subprojects was not defined at appraisal but evolved over
time. The flexibility of the demand-driven approach proved to be highly effective in addressing the wide
range of needs and capacities among municipalities. At the same time, the main shortcoming of the
demand-driven approach was the fragmented nature of the resulting portfolio. With some exceptions, both
provincial and municipal governments failed to articulate physical investments and institutional
development subprojects within a broader development strategy.

With the benefit of hindsight, it is not clear whether the design of the MDP-I was the most appropriate to
be replicated at the time of appraisal. Clearly, the demand-driven design of the MDP-I had proved effective
to deal with the uncertainties posed by the country's macroeconomic environment prior to the Convertibility
Law and the generalized lack of knowledge of Argentina's municipal sector at the time. By 1995, however,
Argentina had already carried out the first round of reforms under the Convertibility Plan and was ready to
move on with the reform process at the subnational level. As designed, the operation did not attempt to
support the systematic reform of municipal governments but rather to continue to foster institutional
strengthening in a rather ad hoc manner. Perhaps it would have been more adequate to conceive the MDP-II
as a shorter operation--the six-and-half-year lifespan originally envisioned for the operation, from Dec.
1995 to June 2002, now seems to have been excessive--while at the same time embarking on more in-depth
municipal sector work to ultimately devise a more focused strategy toward the municipal sector, both in
terms of public sector modernization and service provision.

Similarly, the municipal eligibility criteria of the MDP-I had also lost some of their effectiveness by 1995,
as the financial situation of most municipalities had improved as a result of increased transfers from
provincial governments--i.e., from US$1.3 billion in 1991 to US$2.8 billion in 1993. Thus, most
municipalities were eligible to finance physical investments under the project's municipal eligibility criteria,
although meeting the criteria did not necessarily reflect the municipalities' vocation for sound fiscal
performance. The few municipalities not eligible for physical investments were eligible to finance
institutional development (ID) subprojects under the project, presumably to help them gain fiscal strength.
Unfortunately, no specific eligibility criteria were specified for the ID subcomponent, and consequently did
not guarantee the anticipated fiscal impact.

During preparation, the Bank team drew lessons from the municipal operations that were being
implemented in the region as well as recent OED studies on the urban sector. However, to avoid
interrupting the flow of funds, the MDP-II was prepared a year before the MDP-I had closed. As a result,
an in-depth analysis of the lessons learned during implementation of the MDP-I was still pending at
preparation, which prevented the bank team to fully capitalize on the experience gained during its
implementation. For example, as reported in the corresponding Implementation Completion report (ICR; p.
8), the Municipal Development Funds failed to operate as revolving lending funds as originally envisioned
under the MDP-I. A more in-depth study of these MDFs could have led to an improved design, therefore
enhancing their performance during the MDP-II operation.

Finally, as most operations prepared before the logical framework model was formally adopted, the
MDP-II lacked a system of indicators. This lack was addressed at the Midterm Review in 1998, when a
system of monitoring, outcome and impact indicators, including end-of-project targets was prepared (see
Annex 1). While the impact of physical investments was adequately measured by a robust system of


                                                      - 4 -

indicators--including, among others, number of beneficiaries, beneficiaries with unsatisfied basic needs
(UBN), impact on productive activities, and employment generation--it has been more difficult to measure
the project's impact on institutional development and capacity building based on the project's performance
indicators.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Despite the negative impact of the 2001-2002 crisis, the MDP-II operation has generally fulfilled its
objectives and is rated satisfactory. Specifically, the operation has financed an extensive portfolio of
physical investments, contributing to enhancing living conditions and promoting economic activity at the
municipal level. The MDP-II has also contributed to more effective public sector management at the
municipal level through `hands on' capacity building and the incorporation of modern management tools to
help participating municipalities better manage their resources. The operation has been less successful in
establishing financial mechanisms to mobilize resources in a non-deficit, non-inflationary way to finance
municipal investments, primarily due to the impact of the 2002 devaluation. Mayors and provincial
authorities have consistently reported the high impact the operation has had in their communities and have
demonstrated ownership of the operation throughout its implementation. Examples of such support are
given in Project Status Reports, Dec. 2003, Nov. 2004; interviews conducted during ICR preparation in
Misiones, Buenos Aires, and Tierra del Fuego in Oct. 2005; and surveys to 621 mayors conducted as part
of the project's final evaluation prepared by an external consultant firm (Decision for Research, 2004.c).
Although the operation's outcome and impact indicators are somewhat lacking by today's standards, they
also point to the project's significant impact, its physical investments component in particular.

The operation has been highly successful in terms of municipal participation. A total of 515 municipalities,
accounting for 52 percent of the totality of municipalities in the ten participating provinces have
implemented subprojects under MDP-II (see Annex 7).              Coverage reached 100 percent in the four
provinces--Catamarca, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, and Neuquén--that coordinated the implementation
of subprojects in all municipalities. Participation rate was more than 50 percent in seven provinces. The
project had a more limited coverage in Córdoba and Santa Fe, where 26 and 42 percent of all the
municipalities participated in the program, respectively. However, these two provinces have a considerable
larger number of municipalities than average, thus municipal participation is very high in absolute terms
­65 and 157 municipalities, respectively. The portfolios of four provinces--Buenos Aires, Córdoba,
Neuquén, and Santa Fé--accounted for 75 percent of the overall portfolio (see Annex 8). When
participation is measured on a per capita basis, Tierra del Fuego, Neuquén and La Rioja are clearly seen
as the provinces that were more actively involved in the Program, with provincial portfolios equivalent to
US$103, US$49, and US$30 per inhabitant, respectively, relative to the average US$7.7 for the Program
as a whole.

Physical Investments Objectives: The achievement of physical objectives has been high, as the project has
financed an extensive portfolio of municipal investments, with a considerable impact on rebuilding needed
physical infrastructure at the municipal level. In particular, it is estimated that the civil works financed
under the MDP-II have contributed to improving living conditions of roughly 7 million of people, of which
approximately 3.5 million are direct beneficiaries, with some of them benefiting from more than one
subproject. Physical investments have had a particular impact on the most vulnerable sectors of the
population, since roughly 20 percent of the beneficiaries are estimated to be among those with unsatisfied
basic needs (UBNs), compared to an average 15.9 percent of UBNs among participating provinces.
Overall, physical investments are expected to have had a significant economic impact, as approximately 40
percent of all investments were directly related to productive activities--for example, the maintenance of



                                                      - 5 -

rural roads needed to transport dairy and agricultural production. In addition, the civil works financed
under the MDP-II have generated employment--primarily low-skill labor--equivalent to roughly 56,000
man months over the life of the program. The employment generated by the operation was particularly
significant when considering that unemployment rates, particularly among the poor, grew steadily from
1998 onwards. The purchase of equipment financed under the project has also had a significant impact on
the maintenance of the transportation network, with approximately 35,000 km of rural roads and unpaved
urban streets being maintained each year.

It should be noted that ensuring the soundness and adequacy of the physical investments was a difficult
challenge, as a result of the wholesale nature of the operation. Despite the project's safeguards, such as
subproject eligibility criteria, a variation in the technical quality of individual subprojects can be expected.
In addition, some individual solutions may have been sub-optimal, as the evaluation methodology did not
emphasize the comparison among alternatives. Finally, the nature of the physical investment portfolio was
rather fragmented, as most individual physical investments were not part of broader development strategies.

Institutional Development Objectives: The achievement of institutional development objectives has been
modest to substantial. Overall, this component had extensive coverage, with 227 of the project's
participating municipalities involved in some typ of ID subproject. As no impact or outcome indicator was
specifically designed to measure the achievement of ID objectives, it is difficult to summarize the project's
impact in this area. Therefore, the assessment is based on the reports of municipal and provincial
authorities and staff, who have consistently reported that the project has had a considerable impact on
capacity building at the municipal levels (see, for example, p. 13, Research for Decision, 2004.a). In
addition, the overall assessment of ID subprojects is primarily based on a sample of 40 subprojects
examined as part of the project's final evaluation (Research for Decision, 2004.d).

Through its subproject eligibility criteria, the project has contributed toward the dissemination of
responsible municipal practices, including the use of sound bidding and contracting mechanisms, and
enhancing municipalities' technical capacity to plan, finance, and execute cost-effective capital
investments. In addition to individual institutional development subprojects, the project has been highly
effective in increasing institutional capacity, particularly financial and managerial, through a `hands-on'
informal approach.     This informal institutional strengthening was accomplished through the project's
participation requirements, which made municipalities directly responsible for:               (i) devising and
implementing cost recovery mechanisms; (ii) capital budgeting of investments and management of cash
flows; and (iii) subproject management, including design, bidding, and supervision. Most municipalities,
particularly those of small and medium size, have significantly improved their technical capacity, and have
incorporated the management practices introduced by the project, such as financial analysis and bidding
and contracting procedures, into routine municipal activities. Therefore, participating municipalities are
now better prepared to carry out more rigorous analysis of capital investment at the municipal level, thus
enhancing their technical and economic soundness.

Through a robust portfolio of institutional development subprojects, the project has also contributed to
strengthening the institutional capacity of municipalities to manage their resources more effectively. As a
whole, subprojects financed under this component have contributed toward more effective public sector
management at the provincial and municipal levels, with the implementation of modern public sector
management tools such as financial administration systems, cadastres, planning, and the incorporation of
information and communication technologies (ICTs) needed to support them. With these tools, municipal
governments are better positioned to adopt long-term strategies, improve decision making, formulate and
evaluate municipal investments, and improve service delivery to their citizens. Results from the surveys to
2,000 residents in ten municipalities conducted as part of the project's final evaluation show a more


                                                       - 6 -

positive image of the municipal government in those municipalities that have implemented ID subprojects
under the project (p. 10; Research for Decision, 2004). The specific impact of individual ID subprojects is
discussed in the next section.

Some provinces have utilized the project to support institutional development interventions that were
relevant to the province. For example, Buenos Aires and La Rioja have utilized the project to support
provincial efforts to implement standardized financial administration systems at the municipal level. In
other cases, the provinces have actively utilized the project's financing to promote associative municipal
action, such as the joint purchase of equipment, or tackled problems facing many municipalities, such as
solid waste collection in 17 municipalities in La Rioja, or street-lighting reconverting in 23 municipalities in
Buenos Aires. While these subprojects were financed under the physical investment category, they had a
strong institutional development component. Finally, the training subprojects aimed at municipal staff
implemented by some provinces, such as Misiones and Neuquén, have had a strong impact on building
specific technical skills among all the municipalities in each province.

Finally, the pilot experience of the Municipality of the Third Millennium Pilot Program (M3M) has
effectively demonstrated the potential for integrated municipal reform, by concentrating a considerable
mass of financial and technical resources in four municipalities to simultaneously tackle critical areas of
modernization. Although the M3M was highly successful within individual municipalities, more can be
done to fully capitalize on it as a pilot experience by systematically learning from the experience of the four
participating municipalities and widely disseminating their achievements at the provincial and national
levels. Once these pending tasks are completed, the M3M pilot program can serve as a laboratory for
innovation as well as a focus of reform, demonstrating the potential synergies arising from comprehensive
municipal modernization and providing development models for the municipalities of the third millennium.

Financial Objectives: The project sought to introduce financing mechanisms to mobilize resources in a
non-deficit, non-inflationary manner. The achievement of this objective was modest, primarily as a result
of the exchange gap that resulted from the devaluation of the peso vis-à-vis the dollar in 2002, which
affected all levels of cost recovery (or debt repayment): i) from final beneficiaries to municipalities; ii) from
municipalities to provincial governments; and iii) from provincial governments to the national government.
As a result, the subprojects financed under the MDP-II have been a source of deficit in some of the
participating municipalities and provinces.

Cost recovery from final beneficiaries: Achieving adequate levels of cost recovery from final beneficiaries
was considered essential to meet project's objectives. Thus, one of the key project conditions was that, `at
least 65 percent of the total cost of the aggregate investments proposed in a municipality in a given year be
recovered from payments to the municipality by direct beneficiaries (e.g., betterment levies, connection
fees, user charges, sales, concessions and rents)' (see para. 2.14, Staff Appraisal Report - SAR). The
Project Operation Manual (POM) established three alternative venues for cost recovery: i) contributions
from direct beneficiaries, such as improvement levies, user charges, user charges, in the case of subprojects
in which direct beneficiaries could be clearly identified--for example, street pavement and other
domiciliary services; ii) savings in operating costs or rental fees, primarily for the acquisition of equipment,
such as street cleaning and maintenance, used to serve the entire community; and iii) municipal revenues (
rentas generales) in the case of subprojects benefiting the community as a whole or sectors of the
population with little ability to pay. Mechanisms for cost recovery from final beneficiaries have been used
for subprojects representing approximately half of the total cost of the overall portfolio cost, while
cost-savings and municipal revenues have been used in subprojects equivalent to 19 and 32 percent of the
total portfolio cost (see Annex 9). By offering the three alternative methodologies for cost recovery, the
POM adopted what seems a more lax interpretation of the SAR condition, which tied cost recovery


                                                      - 7 -

exclusively to payments from final beneficiaries.

Mayors of most participating municipalities have subscribed to the concept of cost recovery and devised
appropriate mechanisms in accordance with the project's requirements (see, for example, p. 20, Research
for Decision, 2004.a). The level of cost recovery reached 64 percent in April 2001, but deteriorated thereon
as a result of the 2001-2002 crisis. At project completion, the overall level of cost recovery from final
beneficiaries averaged 61 percent. This is based on information for 455 out of the 738 subprojects
completed as of May 2005. These subprojects represent 63 and 56 percent of the overall portfolio in terms
of total cost and number of subprojects, respectively.    The higher level of cost recovery is achieved under
the cost-savings methodology with roughly 82 percent, as actual savings tended to be higher than
anticipated (see Annex 9). Cost recovery levels using municipal revenues and payments from direct
beneficiaries reached 58 and 55 percent, respectively. Not surprisingly, cost recovery rates in these two
cases are similar to taxpayer compliance with municipal taxes. Urban infrastructure and community
facilities show the highest levels of cost recovery rate (97 percent), followed by sanitation infrastructure
(66 percent) and the acquisition of equipment (61 percent). The lowest level of cost recovery is for road
infrastructure (50 percent), including street pavement (see Annex 10). However, the variation in levels of
cost recovery by type of subproject is mostly a reflection of the type of methodology used for cost recovery.
Cost recovery also varies widely among provinces, from 81 percent in Buenos Aires to less than 40 percent
in La Rioja and Córdoba, providing a reflection of the effort done by individual provinces (see Annex 11).
While Catamarca shows a 100 percent level of cost recovery, it only reports information on three
subprojects, all of which use the cost savings methodology.

The relatively high levels of cost recovery, however, can be deceiving. While measuring the percentage of
collected versus emitted revenues, they do not reflect the fact that payments from final beneficiaries were
calculated using a 1:1 relation between the U.S. dollar and the Argentinean Peso prior to the devaluation
and have not been subsequently modified to reflect the post-devaluation exchange rates. Thus, even at 100
percent levels of cost recovery from 2001 onwards, municipalities would have absorbed almost a third of
the original cost of the investment. In summary, the subprojects financed under the project are expected to
have increased municipal indebtedness, particularly in those provinces that strictly enforced the original
terms of the municipal subsidiary loan agreements. It should be stressed that this unwanted effect was the
result of the devaluation and that there was not much municipalities could do to counteract the negative
impact. The deep economic recession and social upheaval that followed the devaluation were definitively
not propitious conditions for raising municipal taxes or fees. By the time the economy began to recover,
many local officials had been replaced and their replacements had no incentives to take these unpopular
measures, particularly as municipal revenues were growing.

Debt repayment from municipalities to provincial governments: To isolate the impact of the devaluation
on the project's financial objectives, we examine the repayment of municipal debt as of December 2001 and
at project completion (see Annex 12). In 2001, the overall level of municipal repayment reached roughly 70
percent, with 30 percent of the debt being in default. While several provinces had a mediocre
performance--including Catamarca and Tierra del Fuego--Córdoba had a particularly dismal level of
municipal repayment, reporting a 6 percent repayment rate. A study was requested when the problem was
identified during supervision, which showed that municipal repayment in Córdoba reached roughly 30
percent. Excluding Córdoba, the overall level of municipal debt repayment reached almost 90 percent,
reflecting the stellar performance of provinces such as Buenos Aires, La Rioja and Santa Fe. At project
completion, the overall rate of municipal repayment remained approximately at the same levels--72
percent for all provinces and almost 90 percent excluding Córdoba, which still is the worst performer.
Catamarca, La Rioja, Corrientes and Mendoza exhibit a weak performance, while Buenos Aires, Santa Fe,
Neuquén and Tierra del Fuego show almost 100 percent repayment rates (see Annex 12).


                                                     - 8 -

Whether the project has been or not a source of deficit at the provincial level depends not only on the
municipal repayment rate, but also on the stand each province has taken with respect to the repayment of
municipal debt. In some cases, such as that of the provinces of Buenos Aires, Misiones and Tierra del
Fuego, provincial governments have taken a hard stand, requiring municipal governments to repay their
debt in the original terms, thus making them responsible for the exchange gap that resulted from the
devaluation (see Annex 13).       In the case of Buenos Aires, for example, the repayment period was
extended--although still making municipalities absorb the full financial cost of such extension--to avoid
asphyxiating them with debt service. Other provinces, such as Santa Fe and Neuquén, have taken a laxer
stand, absorbing the impact of the devaluation during the most severe times following the 2001 crisis. In
particular, Santa Fe continued to collect municipal debt in nominal terms during the 2002 and 2003,
without adjusting the original repayment amount by the new exchange rate until January 2004. Although a
final solution has not yet been formalized, Neuquén has taken a similar approach. Although a formal
decision is still pending, other provinces including Catamarca and La Rioja have de facto absorbed the full
impact of the devaluation. They have continued to issue payment notices using a 1:1 or 1:1.4 relation
between the dollar and the peso. Similarly, Mendoza has been issuing debt repayment notices using current
exchange rates, but has taken no action against municipalities that are in default, which are virtually all.

It should also be noted that even the provinces that did not absorb the exchange gap were hurt by the
devaluation, as the funds deposited in the MDFs--even those in U.S. dollars--were caught inside the `
corralito' and subsequently devalued by roughly 60 percent. In a final attempt to avoid the economic
collapse, bank deposits were frozen, kept within a virtual `corral.' This action triggered massive street
demonstrations which ended in the resignation of President de la Rua in December 2001. Deposits--even
those in US dollars--were forcefully converted into Pesos at an exchange rate that did not reflect the
impact of the devaluation. The impact of the devaluation translated into a direct financial loss for the
provinces, as the MDFs are primarily used to repay the provincial MDP-II debt to the national government
and such debt had to be repaid at the new exchange rate.

Debt repayment from provinces to the national government: The project has not been a source of any
national deficit, as repayment of provincial subsidiary loans is at 100 percent. While Neuquén and Santa Fe
are depositing their payments in a timely manner, while the remaining provinces are having the
corresponding amount automatically retained from their automatic transfers (coparticipation) as provided
by the loan agreement. The need to automatically deduct payments does not necessarily reflect an
unwillingness to repay the loan on the part of the provinces, but, in some cases, it is simply a matter of
administrative convenience. It is, of course, hard to tell what the rate of provincial repayment would be if
the national government were not resorting to the guarantee.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The specific outcomes corresponding to the individual components are the following:

Component 1 ­ Physical Investments: The outcome of this component was satisfactory. As originally
anticipated, there was a strong demand for physical investment subprojects, equivalent to 93.8 percent of
the overall subproject portfolio. A total of 639 physical investment subprojects were implemented, with
infrastructure works alone benefiting more than 14 million people (see Annex 14). The largest demand was
for street pavement and other road infrastructure (curbs, sidewalks, traffic signals), which accounted for
roughly 45 percent of the overall cost of physical investments (Annex 15). In the case of Córdoba, Tierra
del Fuego and Corrientes, pavement subprojects constituted the bulk of physical investments, accounting
for 87 percent, 71 percent, and 62 percent, respectively (see Annex 16). A distant second were urban



                                                     - 9 -

services (water, sewerage, gas, solid waste, and street lighting), equivalent to about 22 percent of the
overall cost of physical investments. Among these services, sewerage represented roughly a third of the
demand (7.7 percent), followed by street lighting (5.5 percent), water (4.1 percent) and solid waste (3.8
percent). Urban services were a priority in La Rioja, where they accounted for almost half of the total cost
of physical investments, with the other half of its portfolio concentrating on sanitation works.          The
purchase of equipment, mostly for road maintenance, came in third in terms of overall priorities, accounting
for about 17 percent of all physical investments. Catamarca and Misiones strongly favored the purchase of
equipment, which accounted for 88.6 and 78.8 percent of their respective portfolios of physical
investments. Community facilities, such as bus terminals, community facilities, sport facilities, and parks
and recreational areas, accounted for 8.4 percent of all physical investments, being particularly important
in Mendoza and Neuquén, where they accounted for 30 and 25 percent of the respective physical
investment portfolios. Finally, other sanitation works, such as drainage and flood control accounted for 7
percent of the total cost of physical works.

There were considerable differences among provinces in the composition of their investment portfolios,
reflecting the wide differences between provinces in terms of their needs and preferences. Since
municipalities were responsible for establishing investment selection and prioritization, and, since as
mandated to municipalities in some provinces, residents were given the opportunity to oppose specific
subprojects, individual subprojects financed under the project are expected to have responded to the needs
of the recipients. However, the strong preference for street paving suggests that elected officials may have
given preference to investments with high visibility. Given the wholesale nature of the operation, ensuring
the soundness and adequacy of the physical investments was a particularly difficult challenge. The
operation's design, which required individual subprojects to undergo a rigorous economic and technical
analysis as part of their eligibility criteria, was effective in ensuring minimum technical and economic
standards across the portfolio. In addition, the detailed workbooks describing the subproject evaluation
methodology (Guías para la Evaluación de Subproyectos) that were prepared by the Central Coordinating
Unit (CCU) helped ensure consistency in subproject evaluation. Likewise, subprojects with a potential
environmental impact were required to obtain a No-Objection by the Bank to ensure their environmental
soundness. An environmental assessment was performed for a sample of subprojects as part of project
supervision, which showed that investments financed under the project had not caused any unwanted
environmental externalities. Despite these safeguards, however, a variation in the technical quality of
individual subprojects can be expected, particularly in those sectors for which there was no strong in-house
expertise within the CCU. Also, individual solutions may have been sub-optimal in some cases, as the
evaluation methodology did not place a strong emphasis on the comparison among alternatives. For
example, there appears to have been a tendency toward over-dimensioning solid-waste subprojects, with a
preference toward recycling plants vis-à-vis more low-tech solutions, such as infilling. Finally, despite
some efforts from the CCU to insert individual subprojects in the context of an overall strategic
development plan, most provincial and municipal governments failed to integrate individual physical
investments within broader development strategies; thus, the nature of the physical investment portfolio was
rather fragmented. On the positive side, it should be noted that demand-driven approach has also resulted
in the financing of some truly innovative subprojects, such as `smart' water pumping system in the
municipality of Lobos (Buenos Aires), which automatically regulates the use of the various pumps in the
system to maintain steady levels of water pressure using an ingenious mix of unsophisticated
technologies--personal computers, radio communication, and laser beans.

Component 2 - Institutional Development: The outcome of this component was satisfactory. Overall,
institutional development subprojects accounted for 6.2 percent of the total amount of the provincial
portfolio--which was consistent with the 6 percent allocation made at appraisal. As mentioned, ID
subprojects had an extensive coverage, with 227 of the project's participating municipalities participating in


                                                    - 10 -

some type of ID subproject. Some provinces, such as La Rioja, Misiones, Catamarca and Buenos Aires,
allocated a larger share of their provincial portfolios to institutional development--equivalent to 18, 11, 8
and 7.6 percent, respectively (see Annex 14). Some provinces, including Catamarca, Córdoba, La Rioja,
Mendoza, Misiones and Neuquén, have implemented ID subprojects reaching all their municipalities. The
overall distribution of the ID portfolio was as follows: i) 62.3 percent for the implementation of basic
management tools--i.e., cadastre systems, financial administration systems, tax administration, urban and
territorial plans, and local economic development; ii) 26 percent was dedicated to the purchase of ICTs and
office equipment; ii) 3 percent for training and capacity building of municipal staff; and iv) 4.6 percent for
the strengthening of PEUs (see Annex 15). The specific outcomes are described below, with examples of
subprojects in each category being detailed in Annex 17.

Administrative restructuring (29 percent of ID subprojects): These subprojects were aimed at the
modernization of municipal administrations, including the incorporation of new management techniques,
the adoption of new organizational structures, the implementation of integrated information systems, and
staff training (see Annex 17 for an illustration).

Urban and territorial planning (14.3 percent of ID subprojects): Several municipalities have carried out
urban and regional development plans to enhance the administration of their territory. These plans, ranging
from basic land use analysis to sophisticated urban and regional development plans with the corresponding
supportive regulations are expected to have a significant impact on the administration of municipal
territory, promoting rational growth patterns to enhance environmental quality, livability, and service
provision in the medium and long terms. It is very hard to assess the specific impact of these subprojects,
as most of these plans have not yet been formally adopted--the procedures are rather cumbersome,
particularly in those provinces such as Buenos Aires that require provincial approval. It is important to
note that municipalities that have chosen to implement this type of subproject, such as Tandil and Ushuaia,
are under strong development pressure, for which these subprojects are expected to have a significant
impact (see Annex 17 for an illustration).

Cadastre systems (10.7 percent of ID subprojects): These systems are aimed at enhancing territorial and
fiscal information among participating municipalities, ultimately contributing toward strengthening
land-use planning functions and improving real-estate tax collections at the municipal level. Moreover, it is
important to note that the fiscal impact and sustainability of provincial cadastres depends largely on the
quality of municipal cadastral information, for which these subprojects are also expected to have an
indirect impact on real-estate tax collections at the provincial level. Municipalities implementing cadastre
systems have updated information on a considerable number of parcels in the system--up to 70 percent in
the case of some municipalities. Some of the subprojects included the regularization of land tenure of
informal settlements, which have benefited low-income sectors of the population (see Annex 17 for an
illustration).

Tax administration (7.6 percent of ID subprojects): These subprojects were aimed at the modernization of
municipal tax administrations, including their functional reorganization, the reengineering of critical
processes, the review of existing tax systems, the incorporation of ICTs and personnel training (see Annex
17 for an illustration).

Financial administration systems (4.1 percent of ID subprojects): These subprojects were aimed at the
implementation of integrated financial administration systems to enhance the efficiency and transparency in
the management of municipal financial resources. As mentioned earlier, some of these subprojects were
spearheaded by the provincial governments, which promoted the implementation of standardized systems
that are fully consistent with the one at the provincial level, thus laying the foundations for the fluid


                                                     - 11 -

exchange of financial information between the province and its municipalities (see Annex 17 for an
illustration).

Acquisition of computer and office equipment (26 percent of ID subprojects): A large number of
municipalities acquired computer and office equipment with MDP-II financing. These subprojects, which
had a relative small price tag, have had a particularly significant impact in small and medium
municipalities (see Annex 17 for an illustration).

Capacity building (2.9 percent of ID subprojects): In addition to the `hand on' capacity building resulting
from the subproject eligibility criteria, some provinces, such as Neuquén and Misiones, implemented
training subprojects specifically aimed at capacity building among municipal governments (see Annex 17
for an illustration).

Municipalities of the Third Millennium (M3M) Pilot (0.6 percent of the provincial portfolio): This
initiative, which originated as part of the project's Midterm Review, was aimed at demonstrating the
potential impact of an integrated approach toward municipal development, concentrating simultaneously on
several areas of intervention to develop synergies. Despite its relative small share of the project's costs
(US$1.2 million), the M3M pilot experience has had a high institutional development impact among the
participating municipalities and, although not yet materialized, the potential to disseminate the lessons
learned among other municipalities. Four municipalities participated in the pilot experience: Apóstoles
(Misiones), Río Grande (Tierra del Fuego), San Martín de los Andes (Neuquén), and Tandil (Buenos
Aires). Although the selection process was not particularly systematic, the participating municipalities were
characterized by having less than 100,000 inhabitants, being located in different geographical regions,
having mayors of various political affiliations, and having a manifested interest to participate. Given that
this component began its implementation later on in the life of the MDP-II, agility was considered a
primary concern; thus, the CCU assumed responsibility for coordinating the M3M activities directly with
the participating municipalities instead of acting through the Provincial Executing Unit (PEU), as with the
rest of the subprojects. While this implementation arrangement was probably effective in reducing
administrative times, not having actively included the PEUs did not help replicate the M3M experience
among other municipalities in the provinces.

Conceptually, the M3M model was structured around three main areas of intervention: i) urban and
territorial planning; ii) local and economic development; and iii) municipal administrative reform (see
Annex 18 for a description of the specific outcomes in each area of intervention) There was also a strong
emphasis on participatory processes, which were implemented transversally in all three areas of
intervention. Procedurally, the M3M model followed a clear sequence: i) an in-depth diagnosis stage
analysis of the weaknesses and strengths of the municipality that involved active participation of municipal
actors, including the mayor and the city county members, as well as representatives of the larger
community; ii) the generation and prioritization of subproject alternatives, and their ultimate selection by
local officials, who also decided on the amount of the loan to be taken; iii) the preparation of terms of
reference for the selected subprojects, which helped bring more detail and a better definition to the
preliminary subproject ideas; and iv) their implementation by external consultants that were selected at the
national level through standard procurement methods. The overall success of the M3M pilot was the result
of the joint efforts of the municipal staff and their community counterparts, the CCU and, although not
always, the external consultants. Although a system of indicators with the corresponding baseline was
developed for each municipality, these were not used systematically to track progress and measure the
impact of the individual subprojects. Thus, the following description of the main outcomes in each of the
three areas of intervention is largely qualitative and somewhat lacking in quantifiable terms.




                                                     - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As discussed earlier, the institutional development impact of the MDP-II has been modest to substantial.
The MDP-II operation had a positive impact, both in terms of the `hands-on' capacity building it achieved
through its subproject eligibility criteria and through institutional development subprojects. It is important
to note that the MDP-II was the only source of finance available to support the country's overall
decentralization strategy at the municipal level. There were two additional operations financed by
IADB--the Large Urban Agglomerations and the Municipal Reform Projects--aimed at the municipal
level, but both of them fell short of expectations. Despite its significant contribution toward municipal
strengthening, in retrospect the MDP-I and II were not sufficient to promote municipal reform in a
systematic way. It is also important to point out that the lack of a more focused intervention at the
municipal level on the part of the Bank was the reflection of the lack of importance given by Argentina's
reform program to the municipal sector vis-à-vis the national and provincial levels.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The first stage of project implementation took place in a stable political and macroeconomic environment.
However, the situation began to deteriorate toward the end of the 1990s, as the economy began to sink in a
deep recession. This trend, of course, was also reflected in project implementation. Until 2001, the project
had been implemented at a steady pace, with actual level of disbursements systematically exceeding
appraisal estimates--for example, at the Midterm Review held in November 1998, cumulative
disbursements reached US$47.5 million compared to roughly US$40.5 million estimated at appraisal. The
steady pace continued up to the first half of 2000, when project implementation began to slow down as the
result of a myriad of exogenous factors, including the deepening of the economic recession and the lack of
counterpart funds. When the crisis hit in December 2001, the project had disbursed over US$160.7 million,
equivalent to 77.5 percent of the loan amount. It took three-and-half years for the project to disburse an
additional US$39 million. However, despite the severity of the economic crisis, the project always
continued its operation, which points to the municipalities' commitment and willingness to complete the
subprojects being financed under the project. It is important to note that, had the crisis not taken place, the
project would have fully disbursed in the original timeframe.

In addition to the 2001-2001 crisis, there were other factors--both inside and outside the government's
control--that contributed toward or hampered project implementation.

Complex institutional framework:          Under Argentina's federal system of government, subnational
governments--both provinces and municipalities--are highly autonomous. In the case of provinces, they
are governed by their own constitutions, executive, and legislative branches, which requires that each
province sign an individual subsidiary agreement that needs to be approved by the provincial legislature.
This process was cumbersome, time consuming, and sensitive to political struggle.

Complex implementation of portfolio loans: Portfolio projects like the MDP-II are significantly more
complex to implement than standard investment loans for projects such as dams or roads. This is the result
of several factors, including: (i) the large number of potential sub-borrowers--in this case there was a total
of 515 participating municipalities within ten provinces; (ii) the great diversity among sub-borrowers in



                                                     - 13 -

terms of most relevant indicators, especially institutional and technical capacity; (iii) the high number of
subprojects--approximately 811 subprojects under the MDP-II; (iv) the high diversity across subprojects,
which covered many sectors; and (v) the demand-driven nature of the portfolio, in which subprojects were
selected after appraisal.    Thus, it is unreasonable to expect that a portfolio loan would follow the
disbursement profile of a traditional loan, and that the administrative costs would be the same.        Also,
portfolio projects tend to be more expensive to execute and supervise than traditional loans as a result of
their increased complexity and the labor intensity required to support the high level of municipal
involvement sought by the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Uneven political support: As in all operations, political support--in this case, at the three levels of
government--is critical to a successful project implementation. During its first stage of implementation, the
MPD-II received ample support from the national government. However, this support began to erode in
2000, which, combined with an overly bureaucratic approach toward project management, negatively
affected project implementation. The negative impact resulting from the lack of political support at the
provincial level is illustrated by the province of Tierra del Fuego. While the MDP-II had a stellar
performance in the province, contributing to the in-depth transformation of its two main municipalities, the
current provincial administration has withdrawn its support, as shown, for example, by the current lack of
resources of the PEU, which is virtually cut off from the rest of the world, with no Internet access or
long-distance phone communications.

The impact of the devaluation: The chaos that ensued after the economic collapse and the devaluation of the
Argentinean Peso was devastating for the project, as municipal governments were confronted with the
exchange risk they had assumed when signing the corresponding subsidiary loan agreements. Municipal
public debt experienced over a 3 fold increase with respect to its original value in Pesos, without a
corresponding increase--and often a drop--in municipal revenues. In addition, the delays on the part of
the government to adopt a price conversion clause to adjust contracts resulted in many subprojects being
stopped. Following the devaluation, municipalities had less interest in assuming new debt in foreign
currency due to the uncertainty about future exchange rates.

Increased centralization of project management: The operation began its implementation in a rather
decentralized way, with the Bank and the National Executing Unit relying heavily on ex-post reviews and
delegating more responsibilities to the PEUs and the municipalities. Given the large number of participating
municipalities as well as subprojects, this approach was effective in avoiding administrative bottlenecks
and ensuring an agile administration. However, from the late 1990s onward, there was a persistent trend
toward centralization, which negatively affected project implementation. The situation reached drastic
proportions in 2001, with the creation of a centralized project coordinating unit within the Ministry of
Infrastructure responsible for overseeing all the operations with international financing. Although the
strategy was good in principle, in practice it caused unnecessary delays, with disbursements lagging behind
up to three months. This situation had a cascade effect, as many subprojects under implementation had to
be suspended and others had to be delayed. The impact of the excessive bureaucratization came at a
particularly bad time, as it unnecessarily disrupted the flow of much needed financial resources to
municipalities when the recession was deepening.

Cost recovery strategy: The approach toward cost recovery, which was centered on individual subprojects,
may have been suboptimal. First, the lack of cost recovery is the result of deeply engrained free-riding
culture in Argentina. Thus, tying subproject cost-recovery requirements to a more comprehensive approach
involving both media campaigns designed to raise public awareness as well as aggressive anti-evasion
strategies on the part of the participating municipalities may have resulted not only in higher levels of cost



                                                    - 14 -

recovery at the subproject level but also in higher rates of tax compliance for all municipal taxes and fees.
Second, the subproject-centered approach often led to disparities among residents when similar investments
financed from different sources. For example, in the municipality in Río Grande (Tierra del Fuego), two
street paving subprojects, one of which was financed by the MDP-II and the other with a provincial grant,
resulted in uneven betterment levies among residents, resulting in strong discontent and street
demonstrations. Third, although poverty alleviation was not a specific objective of the MDP-II, cost
recovery conditions were somewhat incompatible with the ability to reach the lower-income sectors of the
population. Alternatively, it could have been complemented with the implementation of transparent
subsidies when targeting the poor. Finally, as reported by the CCU and the PEUs, cost recovery
requirements, including implementing cost recovery mechanisms and reporting on the results have been
difficult to implement, as there were no consequences for municipalities that fail to fulfill their obligations.
Despite these observations, it is important to stress that the MDP-I and II helped re-establish the legitimacy
of the concept of cost recovery among participating municipalities, a critical achievement that needs to be
preserved by future operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The role of the Project Executing Units (PEUs): The experience of the MDP-I and II operations shows that
PEUs play a key role in providing technical support to municipalities. During the MDP-II, some PEUs
have gone beyond this advising role, playing a more active role in delineating a strategy for the use of the
loan. These provinces have generally been more successful in structuring individual subprojects within
broader development strategies and capitalizing on economies of scale.

Weak dissemination efforts: The CEU and most PEUs have failed to fully capitalize on the potential for
cross-fertilization at the national and provincial levels by not actively promoting the exchange of
information among participants and the dissemination of successful innovative solutions to common
problems through, for example, seminars, newsletters, workshops, `best practice' fairs. In addition, new
ICTs open new opportunities to support cross-fertilization through websites featuring discussion forums,
sample subprojects (bancos de proyectos), project statistics and other relevant information for provincial
and municipal participants.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total Bank project cost anticipated at appraisal was US$300, which combined with another US$300
being financed by a parallel IDB operation, added up to a total cost of US$600. The actual project cost
was US$537.5 million, mainly as a result of the devaluation, which lowered local costs. Of the original
Bank loan of US$210 million, a total of US$198.02 million were disbursed, an additional US$4.07 million
were declared not eligible due to misprocurement, and the remaining US$7.93 million were cancelled. The
Bank loan financed approximately 37 percent of the project total costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the achievements under the project in the participating provinces and municipalities is
likely, although it varies across components.

Physical Infrastructure: With regard to the large number of physical investment subprojects financed
under the MDP-II, they are likely to continue to work well and be adequately maintained as a result of good
technical design and supervision of works, as well as the provisions made for maintenance and operation
costs. The same is true for the maintenance of construction and road equipment purchased under the
MDP-II, as municipalities were required to design and implement rigorous maintenance plans. However,
there were no financial pervisions made for their future replacement, such as putting aside a portion of the


                                                     - 15 -

annual savings arising from the replacement of old equipment. The FPSI operation currently under
preparation--i.e., the Basic Municipal Services Project--will certainly help municipal and provincial
governments continue to improve physical infrastructure at the municipal level. With the Ministry of
Planning and Infrastructure as the counterpart, the new operation will provide financial and technical
assistance to municipal governments to improve basic service delivery in an efficient and sustainable
manner, focusing on a more limited number of provinces and sectors to maximize its impact.

Institutional Development: Overall, the sustainability of institutional development achievements is
considered to be likely. In terms of capacity building, it is clear that the project, through the introduction of
enhanced management practices and sustainable financing mechanisms for municipal investments, has
considerably improved municipalities' technical capacity. However, it is less clear how long the newly
acquired skills will remain within municipalities after successive changes in administration, particularly in
small and medium-size municipalities. During the interviews conducted as part of the project's final
evaluation, local officials consistently reported the need for ongoing training in areas were the MDP-II has
had its greatest impact, such as subproject preparation and evaluation and bidding procedures, to minimize
the impact of staff rotation (pp.32, 35; Research for Decision, 2004.a). The sustainability of individual ID
subprojects is expected to vary across municipalities. Those that have had the support of the province, such
as the implementation of the RAFAM in the province of Buenos Aires, are expected to be more sustainable,
as provincial governments have the ability to put in place adequate systems of incentives or legal
requirements--for example, in the case of the RAFAM, municipalities are required by law to implement it.
Subprojects that have strong ownership and have been fully embraced by municipal staff, such as the
modernization of Godoy Cruz and the implementation of the SIAGEF in Ushuaia, are highly likely to be
sustained over time. Since most ID subprojects have been identified as priorities by individual
municipalities, it is reasonable to expect significant levels of ownership across the ID portfolio.

As mentioned earlier, the sustainability of the activities performed under M3M component among
individual municipalities is particularly encouraging, as mayors in the pilot municipalities--even those that
have replaced the ones that led the M3M process--fully embrace them. The sustainability of the overall
concept is still to be determined, as dissemination among other municipalities has been mainly informal and
unsystematic until now. The current assignment of responsibilities within the government regarding
sub-national governments (the Ministry of Planning has responsibility for infrastructure investments and
territorial planning; the Ministry of Interior has responsibility for public sector modernization; and the
Ministry of Economy has responsibility for local economic development and strategic planning) will make
it more difficult to design and implement an integrated municipal intervention such as the M3M through
Bank operations. However, the fact that the three ministries have expressed their interest in continuing the
M3M experience as part of the operations being prepared in their respective orbits reflects the value of the
experience and suggests good prospects in relation to its sustainability.

The PREM operation currently under preparation--e.g., the Sub-national Governments Modernization
Project (SNGMP)--will continue to support the modernization and institutional strengthening of municipal
governments. With the Ministry of the Interior as the counterpart, the SNGMP will support the
strengthening of municipal governments in a top-down approach, supporting the `wholesale' development
of municipal management tools at the provincial level to fully capitalize on economies of scale and to
ensure that these tools are fully consistent both horizontally (i.e., across municipal governments) and
vertically (i.e., between provincial and municipal levels).

Fiscal Objectives: The sustainability of fiscal objectives depends not only on levels of cost recovery but
also on the approach taken by individual provinces toward municipal debt. As discussed earlier, the
devaluation following the 2001 December crisis has had a severe impact on the project's financial


                                                      - 16 -

objectives, generating deficits at various levels of government and disrupting the normal functioning of
financial mechanisms, such as cost recovery from final beneficiaries and the Municipal Development
Funds. Despite the relatively high levels of cost recovery among some municipalities, financial
sustainability has been severely damaged by the devaluation, as it is highly unlikely that municipalities will
increase payments from final beneficiaries to account for the new exchange rate (the municipality of Río
Grande attempted to do so, generating such uproar among its residents that the decision had to be reversed).

The devaluation has also threatened the sustainability of the Municipal Development Funds, particularly
those that were established under the MDP-II. Specifically, the Municipal Funds were conceived as a
sustainable financing mechanism to be established in each province to lend to municipalities under the same
conditions as the project. Their capitalization was based on: (a) the spread between the rate charged to the
province and that charged to municipalities; and (b) the shorter maturity of the loans given to the
municipalities compared to that of the provincial subsidiary loan. Provinces participating in the MDP-I,
including Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Neuquén and Santa Fe had established such Funds under the previous
operation, and all of them with the exception of Neuquén have been using them to finance additional
investment subprojects as originally envisioned (see Annex 19). Conversely, although the newly
participating provinces established their Funds early on in the implementation stage, the Funds failed to
capitalize as expected. As observed during the implementation of the MDP-I, one of the primary factors
affecting the capitalization of the newly established Funds was the mismatch between the provincial and
municipal repayment schedules. Specifically, provinces had to start repaying their loans to the national
government much earlier than the municipalities--the time lag was mainly the result of the time that took to
prepare and begin implementation of the municipal subprojects. Thus, initially provinces had to resort to
other provincial resources to meet the first debt services. As the municipalities slowly began to repay their
loans, Municipal Funds generated enough funds to make the debt payments to the national government.
Had the devaluation not taken place, at some point in time even the new Municipal Funds would have
generated enough resources to repay the advances made by the provinces and to begin financing a parallel
portfolio of municipal subprojects. While all Municipal Funds have been somewhat affected by the
devaluation by being caught inside the `corralito,' the sustainability of the Funds is highly unlikely in those
provinces that have absorbed the exchange gap resulting from the devaluation, including Catamarca, La
Rioja and Mendoza. In provinces that have taken a somewhat harder stand, such as Neuquén, the
sustainability of the Funds will be unlikely, but at least they will help avoid generating a deficit from the
province's participation in the MDP-II. On a more positive note, it is important to underscore the decision
of the provinces of Buenos Aires and Misiones to add additional funds to their already financially healthy
Municipal Development Fund, as they consider them a very effective instrument for municipal financing.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N.A.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank's team in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the
operation has been satisfactory. It correctly identified the window of opportunity to introduce the Bank's
urban agenda to all provincial jurisdictions and their municipalities. Drawing from the successful
experience of the MDP-I, it replicated its design, expanding the new operation to all provinces. The design
of the new operation, however, was not without its challenges, as there was little information on the
characteristics of the municipal sectors of the new participating provinces. Bridging this information gap
required a substantial effort to acquire information on the structure of the municipal sector in each
participating province, including provincial-municipal revenue sharing systems, the volume of automatic


                                                    - 17 -

and discretionary transfers, municipal creditworthiness--current-account balances, debt stock, debt
servicing capacity--as well as an estimation of the potential demand for municipal infrastructure. In
addition, it required a significant degree of cooperation and coordination with the IADB, which was
co-financing the operation. While the preparation team incorporated the lessons learned from other
municipal operations in the region and the OED reviews of the urban sector, it could have benefited from a
more in-depth review of the MDP-I to fully capitalize on its potential and avoid some of its shortcomings.
Likewise, although the design of the MDP-I had been clearly successful, the team did not seem to question
enough the relevance of the wholesale approach to the post-Convertibility Law environment. As mentioned
earlier, a shorter operation may have been more adequate.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision for this operation is deemed satisfactory. Supervision missions were regularly
conducted twice a year and all documentation is included in the project's electronic files. Moreover, the
Bank's supervision team placed a strong emphasis on obtaining first-hand experience of the project's
implementation experience at all levels of governments, for which supervision missions included regular
visits to PEUs and individual municipalities. This strategy helped the Bank not only obtain a deeper
understanding of the challenges faced by provinces and municipalities during project implementation but
also to establish a presence among Argentina's subnational governments.             A Midterm Review was
conducted in November 1998, in which important improvements were made, such as developing a system
of project indicators and adding the M3M component to foster a more integrated approach toward
municipal development in pilot municipalities. The project maintained a `Satisfactory' or a `Highly
Satisfactory' rating in terms of both the achievement of project development objectives and its
implementation progress over its entire life; thus, the decision to support the government's request to extend
its closing dates to ameliorate the negative impact of the 2001-2002 crisis was warranted, in spite of the
clearly excessive lifespan of the project--over ten years from its approval in March 1995 to its final
closing in June 2005.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
For the reasons outlined above, the Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory. Aware that the
MDP-I and II lacked the focus and the incentives needed to forge more in-depth reform among municipal
governments, the Country Management Unit (CMU) attempted to create synergies with other operations.
Specifically, the more extensive municipal strengthening supported under MDP-II operations was to be
complemented by a more in-depth reform of the provincial-municipal automatic revenue-sharing transfer
system (coparticipación municipal) under the Provincial Reform Loan (Loan 3836-AR, approved in
FY95, PRL). As a condition for the release of the PRL's second tranche, participating provinces were
required to draft new legislation on revenue-sharing with municipalities, incorporating incentive rules that
based at least 30 percent of transfers directly on fiscal performance. Likewise, a third tranche condition
required that such legislation be submitted to provincial legislatures. While these conditions were met, it
was very much a pro forma effort, as none of the proposals were adopted as municipalities that stood to
lose revenues mounted a fierce political opposition to the proposed changes. No other operation aimed at
the municipal sector was approved in the 1990s, which reflects the little importance assigned to the
municipal sector in Argentina's reform program.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Central Coordinating Unit (CCU)
played a very active role in the preparation of the project, particularly in collecting and analyzing data on
the municipal sector of participating provinces, as well as contributing its understanding of Argentina's
municipal sector based on the implementation experience of the MDP-I.



                                                     - 18 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall government's performance is rated as satisfactory. The national government provided steady
support during its implementation, granting full autonomy to the CCU for project implementation. As
mentioned earlier, there was an excessive bureaucratization of the government's overseeing functions when
a centralized unit was first established at the Ministry of Infrastructure in early 2001, which lead to
significant delays in project implementation. At the provincial level, provincial governments were also
supportive of the project, providing the necessary resources for the adequate staffing and functioning of the
Provincial Executing Units (PEUs), as well as the repayment of project obligations, including commitment
fees.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Central Coordinating Unit (CCU) has been satisfactory. It has effectively provided
general coordination among provincial governments, managed the flow of documents required by the Bank
and the provinces, monitored and reported on project implementation, including the preparation of robust
semi-annual performance reports, and managed the program's special account. Although management had
at times been weak, this shortcoming was somewhat offset by the technical soundness and personal
commitment of the CCU professional staff. Over the years, they have developed close working relations
not only with the Provincial Executing Units but also individual municipalities. Moreover, the permanency
of key CCU staff was an important factor ensuring a minimum level of continuity throughout the life of the
project despite changes in management both at the national and provincial levels. In those areas where the
CCU had a strong expertise--e.g., bidding procedures, street paving, appropriate selection of road
equipment--it played a key role in bringing valuable expertise to the PEUs and participating
municipalities, significantly enhancing the quality of their investments. However, in areas where there that
expertise was missing, the CCU could have relied more on short-term consultants to strengthen its technical
expertise. Likewise, although the CCU was responsible for disseminating experiences and techniques to the
provinces, it did not fully capitalized on its potential for promoting cross-fertilization in a systematic
manner, focusing almost exclusively on the operational aspects of the program.

While the CCU management and staff provided their full support to the preparation of this ICR, the
process was complicated by the recent reduction in size of the CCU and its relocation to a different
physical location, which resulted in the lost of many electronic and paper files that documented the
implementation history of the program.

As noted earlier, the performance of the PEUs has been critical to the success of the operation. PEUs were
established in each participating province and granted responsibility for implementation, supervision and
evaluation of all program activities in the province. They were directly responsible for the design,
implementation and supervision of the project, as well as for providing guidance and technical assistance to
municipalities. In general, the PEUs fulfilled their responsibilities as defined under the project agreement
and the project operation manual. They also largely complied with their requirement to regularly produce
semi-annual performance reports. Overall, the PEUs were staffed with competent and dedicated staff
strongly committed to the principles of the project. They implemented and supervised the project according
to the operation manuals with very little supervision on the part of the CCU or the Bank, and were the
primary agents of institutional strengthening at the municipal level. As noted above, some PEUs took a
more proactive approach, initiating subprojects targeting multiple municipalities that reflected provincial
priorities or responded to commonly shared problems. As could be expected, strong provincial support was
critical to the performance of the PEUs, as it influenced both the resources available and their political
leverage. However, those PEUs with stronger political support were more vulnerable to changes in the
political environment, generally experiencing isolation or considerable staff changes under the next



                                                    - 19 -

administration.

It is important to note that there were deficiencies in procurement administration.           In particular,
misprocurement cases were found in Córdoba and Corrientes, leading to the cancellation of US$1.2 and
US$2.9 million, respectively. In addition, total contracts using the category shopping exceeded by over
US$9.0 million the threshold established in the Legal Agreement. To prevent other irregularities, in
December 2001 the Bank implemented a number of precautionary measures aimed at strengthening
procurement supervision of the provinces, including suspending the use of shopping, removing all
procurement autonomy from the participating provinces, having the CCU staff conduct field visits to the
participating provinces and some municipalities at least twice a year, and increasing the number of
contracts and field visits of ex-post reviews. Both the CCU and the PEUs made a strong effort to strength
procurement procedures and no other irregularities were identified.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.

8. Lessons Learned

important lessons can be drawn from the implementation of the MDP-II operation to enrich future
operations, both in Argentina, within and beyond the region.

Demand-driven portfolio operations such as the MDP-I and II are effective instruments to promote
basic institutional development among municipal governments. However, they lack the incentives to
support deeper reforms in a systematic way. An adequate system of incentives, both at the provincial and
municipal levels, is a prerequisite for broader municipal reform. At the provincial level, discretionary
grants need to be removed and the revenue-sharing transfer system needs to reward fiscally responsible
behavior and efficiency. At the municipal level, incentives should come from local constituencies that hold
elected officials accountable for management of their public resources. In the case of Argentina, adequate
incentives are slowly developing, as discretionary grants are increasingly being reduced because of tight
provincial budgets, and democratic mechanisms continue to mature.

Commitment from municipal authorities and personnel is important for the success of municipal
strengthening projects. Municipalities have to play an important role in the design of municipal
strengthening projects to foster their sense of ownership and maximize capacity building, even when the
lack of adequate technical capacity may post initial barriers to project implementation. Requiring
municipalities to compete for financing, identify and prepare subprojects and provide co-financing were
effective features of the MDP-II's design to ensure municipal commitment.

Demand-driven portfolio operations, such as the MDP-I and II, provide great flexibility and risk
diversification, but the overall portfolio tends to be rather fragmented. Given their flexibility, this type
of operations is particularly well suited to deal with uncertainty--in terms of potential demand for specific
sectors, commitment toward modernization on the part of provincial and municipal governments and
macro-economic conditions--as well as a complex subnational environments that exhibit a wide range of
variation among participants. However, the overall demand-driven portfolio can be expected to have a
fragmented nature, in which individual subprojects address individual needs and are generally not
conceived as part of broader development strategies.

An important role for subnational governments is critical to the success of the project. Although the
lack of adequate provincial and municipal technical and institutional capacity may result in initial project



                                                     - 20 -

bottlenecks, their enhanced responsibilities within the project contribute to strong `hands-on'
capacity-building, both at the provincial and municipal levels, and fosters their sense of ownership of the
project.

Keep subproject requirements within reasonable bounds. Since individual subprojects are generally
small, it is important not to over-dimension preparation and evaluation requirements.              Excessive
requirements unduly increase the cost of borrowing and promote the unnecessary use of private consultants,
which diminishes the potential for `in-house' capacity-building.

While the MDP-II operation was not targeted at poverty alleviation, this type of operation offers the
opportunity to improve living conditions of the poor. However, cost-recovery criteria should be
complemented with the implementation of transparent subsidies to be able to reach lower income-sectors of
the population.

Ensuring technical soundness of individual investments can be challenging in demand-driven
operation of such a broad scope as the MDP-I and II. Although subproject eligibility criteria required
detailed economic and technical evaluation of individual investments, it is important to note that individual
subprojects in a multi-sector project do not receive the same level of attention as in operations with a more
limited scope. Focusing on fewer sectors seems a more effective strategy to mitigate this risk and, at the
same time, to fully capitalize on economies of scale and the know-how generated by the project. This
applies for both physical investments and institutional development.

The vertical integration of the basic management tools at the provincial and municipal levels is critical
to fully capitalize on their potential fiscal impact and ensure their sustainability over time. Cadastre,
financial administration and tax administration systems have to be conceived as part of an integrated
strategy that contemplates the full consistency and fluid interaction of these tools at the provincial and
municipal levels. For example, the updating of provincial cadastre systems depends on the ongoing
exchange of information with municipal governments, as municipalities routinely collect information on
new construction and changes in land uses. At the same time, municipal governments could benefit greatly
from having access to geo-referenced data to enhance territorial and urban planning, service provision, and
the prioritization of capital improvements, but they generally lack the necessary resources. Thus, the
development of cadastre systems in which information flows fluidly between provincial and municipal
governments can ensure their sustainability while maximizing their potential impact.

Provincial governments need to play a key role in the design and implementation of municipal
development strategies. In the case of federal countries such as Argentina, in which the systems of
incentives--i.e., inter-governmental transfers, institutional frameworks, etc.--determining the behavior of
municipal governments are defined at the provincial level, it is critical that provincial governments play a
key role in delineating the strategy toward municipalities.

Dissemination has to be considered as an important activity at the onset of a project, and treated as
such in terms of inputs, outputs, timetable, and impact. To fully capitalize on the potential for
cross-fertilization, national and provincial units should actively seek to promote the exchange of
information among participants. For example, successful approaches to service provision and institutional
development should be documented and disseminated through seminars, newsletters, workshops, `best
practice' fairs and an easily accessible and regularly updated website featuring discussion forums, sample
subprojects (bancos de proyectos), project statistics and other relevant information for provincial and
municipal participants.



                                                    - 21 -

Demand-driven portfolio operations can serve as incubators, fostering the generation of innovative
solutions for common problems. The ultimate impact, however, depends on the ability of higher levels of
government to recognize the value of an innovation and its potential for replication, and to ensure its
dissemination among other participants. In this regard, the ultimate impact of the M3M pilot experience is
still pending.

Decentralize all review, procurement, and disbursement procedures as much as possible.                  To
effectively conduct a wholesale lending operation, it is critical to rely on agile review, procurement, and
implementation procedures. Given the large number of subprojects--over 811 subprojects in the case of
MDP-II--and the vast number of related documents, such as bidding documents, contracts, and terms of
reference, that are characteristic of portfolio subprojects, simplified procedures are critical to avoid
potential administrative bottlenecks.

Do not expect municipal portfolio projects to disburse quickly and easily at first. Municipal portfolio
projects like MDP-I need to be designed with longer implementation periods to take into consideration the
complex institutional framework of subnational governments--such as the approval of enabling legislation
at both the provincial and municipal levels--and the complexity of implementation characteristic of
portfolio loans.

Field visits to provinces and municipalities are necessary for the effective supervision of municipal
projects. Progress reports and discussions with national officials are not sufficient for the effective
supervision of municipal projects. Field visits to provinces and municipalities are necessary to develop
first-hand knowledge of implementation progress and to understand the difficulties faced by sub-borrowers.
Moreover, it is important to note that the resources needed for adequate supervision might be higher than
for other operations.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   REPORTE NACIONAL DEL SEGUNDO PROGRAMA DE DESARROLLO MUNICIPAL
   PRESTAMO BIRF 3860/AR


   El propósito de este informe es evaluar la experiencia derivada de la implementación del Segundo
   Programa de Desarrollo Municipal en Argentina, entre 1995 y 2005, desde la perspectiva del gobierno.

   A.ANÁLISIS DE CONTEXTO

   El PDM-II fue la continuación, con leves ajustes, del Primer Programa de Desarrollo Municipal. Este
   había sido reconocido como una herramienta útil para los propósitos de desarrollo de inversiones a nivel
   municipal, en un marco de disciplina fiscal y de fortalecimiento de los niveles subnacionales.

   El fundamento del PDM-II fue el reconocimiento de la existencia de una demanda insatisfecha a nivel
   municipal, tanto para el desarrollo de proyectos de inversión como de fortalecimiento institucional, en
   una amplia cantidad de municipios. De hecho, la demanda municipal en una amplia variedad de
   sectores, excedía las posibilidades de financiamiento de la operación. No obstante el Programa actuó
   con cierto efecto de demostración para introducir prácticas efectivas en el desarrollo de inversiones, la
   incorporación de la idea del recupero de los costos de inversión, administración y mantenimiento por
   parte de los beneficiarios, y una mayor transparencia en las relaciones financieras entre los distintos
   niveles de gestión.



                                                   - 22 -

Asimismo, con la idea de fortalecer las capacidades locales, el Programa se estructuró bajo una política
de descentralización del Estado. Así, la organización del proyecto involucró a los tres niveles de
gobierno de la Argentina, con procesos de descentralización de competencias y responsabilidades del
gobierno central hacia los gobiernos provinciales y de los gobiernos provinciales a los locales.

El objetivo del proyecto fue contribuir a hacer más efectiva la administración en los niveles provinciales
y municipales, a partir de una mejora en los mecanismos de financiación de las inversiones municipales,
como así también, ayudar a una mayor efectividad del federalismo fiscal a través del fortalecimiento de
la capacidad de las municipalidades para asumir las responsabilidades que les sean transferidas.

Sus objetivos específicos son:
a)    movilizar recursos financieros externos e internos, de manera no deficitaria ni inflacionaria, con el
fin de financiar proyectos municipales justificados, en particular aquellos que contribuyan al desarrollo
de actividades productivas, y
b)    fortalecer la capacidad de los municipios y comunas para planificar, financiar y ejecutar de una
manera eficiente sus programas de inversiones.

Para alcanzar sus objetivos, el Programa financió actividades en aquellas municipalidades que
aseguraron un mínimo de viabilidad económica y financiera. Se desarrollaron actividades financiadas
por el Banco en dos categorías: a) inversiones (por ejemplo obras de infraestructura y adquisición de
equipos y máquinas), y b) desarrollo institucional (por ejemplo, provisión de consultores y asistencia
técnica para mejorar la capacidad institucional de los municipios).

La evaluación del impacto de los proyectos por sector fueron, en términos generales, muy positivas.
Según el informe de evaluación externa Informe final de la Consultoría de Evaluación de Resultados e
Impactos del Programa de Financiamiamiento a Municipios. Research for Decision, 2004. realizado al
finalizar el Programa, se constató:

a) la evaluación de los proyectos de las áreas de Infraestructura Vial y de Servicios revela un impacto
sustancial en términos de saneamiento, seguridad urbana, prevención de pérdidas materiales, cobertura
de servicios públicos, transitabilidad peatonal, accidentes de tránsito.

b) en los proyectos de Infraestructura de Servicios, específicamente saneamiento, de acuerdo con la
información cualitativa, el impacto en términos de calidad de vida es considerado como altamente
sustancial, específicamente en los municipios de Córdoba, Tandil, Neuquén.

c) los proyectos de planeamiento estratégico y urbano territorial, como fortalecimiento de las
capacidades de gestión municipal, dejaron prácticas instaladas de articulación institucional, y en todos
los niveles municipales se priorizó el desarrollo local como herramienta para una mejora de la calidad
de vida de los habitantes del municipio, la cual podrá ser medida en el mediano y largo plazo. La
experiencia fortaleció a los municipios donde se desarrolló y a su respectiva gestión, en una instancia
intensiva de aprendizaje y capacitación, incorporando a los empresarios y comerciantes locales en el
proyecto.

d) se subrayan dos proyectos en particular que involucran redes viales rurales, en los que el impacto
productivo es estimable y es altamente sustancial ya que los principales beneficiarios son los
establecimientos productivos agropecuarios que comercializan sus productos a través de estas redes
viales mejoradas (Caso Bragado y Gral. Villegas).

El Programa se desarrolló con altos niveles de satisfacción, con desembolsos que superaban aún las
estimaciones iniciales, hasta el 2001. Durante ese año comenzó un proceso de desaceleración de la
ejecución. En diciembre se produjeron una serie de hechos de orden político, económico y social, que
dieron lugar a la crisis más aguda que tuvo que atravesar la Argentina, afectaron directamente la


                                                 - 23 -

ejecución del Programa.

En este nuevo contexto los sectores más dinámicos y beneficiados de la economía son los primarios y los
productores de bienes exportables, y con ello se produjo un cambio en la relación entre provincias,
configurándose un nuevo mapa de provincias ricas y pobres, lo que repercutió directamente en los
Municipios.

La fuerte recesión del año 2002, influyó negativamente en la liquidez de los municipios, dificultándose
inicialmente la toma de nuevos préstamos. Si bien esta situación se revirtió, durante prácticamente 18
meses el Programa ejecutó una mínima cantidad de acciones. Recién a mediano plazo los municipios
volvieron a tomar confianza en la política económica y resultado de ello fue la presentación de nuevos
pedidos de financiamiento.

A fines de 2001, el Programa había, prácticamente, comprometido la totalidad de los recursos (96.5%).
No obstante, luego de la fuerte devaluación, se multiplicaron los recursos en pesos, lo que dio lugar a la
gestión de una nueva serie de proyectos, que cambiaron el perfil de los proyectos que habían sido
ejecutados hasta ese momento (se orientó la inversión a proyectos de ejecución de corto plazo, en
especial de adquisición de equipos).

La incertidumbre acerca de la finalización del Programa, tramitada una prórroga con mucha antelación,
obstaculizó el desarrollo de una planificación consistente a mediano plazo de la etapa final de la
operación. La prórroga fue otorgada dos meses antes del cierre vigente a ese momento, lo que obligó a la
Unidad Ejecutora Central a rechazar solicitudes de financiamiento que hubiesen utilizado todo el
financiamiento disponible y comprometido.         Esto perjudicó la ejecución total del Programa y la
necesidad de devolver un saldo de fondos al Banco.

Asimismo, la retracción económica incidió fuertemente en los niveles de recaudación, particularmente en
los municipios. Hecho que se fue revirtiendo paulatinamente, lo que se verificó por un mayor nivel de
actividad económica, lo que derivó en nuevos pedidos de financiamiento que se continuaron recibiendo
aún finalizado el programa.

En este contexto, fueron identificadas nuevas demandas que impulsaron a que se haya reiterado a la
Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros, por parte del Señor Ministro Julio De Vido y la Secretaría de Obras
Públicas, el pedido prioritario de financiamiento de un nuevo proyecto Municipal a ambos Bancos
(BIRF y BID), resultando priorizado dicha solicitud por Jefatura de Gabinete de Ministros y Ministerio
de Economía.

Complementariamente, a través del Programa se desarrolló, por medio de la donación japonesa (TFO
26528) el estudio "Estrategias ambientales para municipios de la Argentina", el cual se desarrolló en 5
ciudades de distintas características territoriales, ambientales y sociales de la Argentina. El producto
más desatacado del proyecto consistió en un diagnóstico ambiental y un plan de acción detallado y
cuantificado, de acciones tanto de inversiones físicas como de desarrollo de políticas de fortalecimiento
institucional de los municipios en todo lo relacionado al manejo del habitat y las regulaciones
consecuentes. El banco de proyectos resultantes se encuentra disponible para ser ejecutado por alguna
unidad del ámbito gubernamental.


B. ASPECTOS RELEVANTES DE LA FASE DE IMPLEMENTACIÓN

El modelo de organización del Programa tuvo un diseño descentralizado, con la participación de los tres
niveles de gestión: nacional, provincial y municipal. La coordinación estuvo a cargo de la Unidad de
Coordinación Central, en el ámbito del Ministerio de Planificación Federal, Inversión Pública y
Servicios. La implementación del Programa en cada provincia estuvo a cargo de Unidades Ejecutas


                                                  - 24 -

Provinciales, establecidas en cada una de las diez provincias participantes: Buenos Aires, Catamarca,
Córdoba, Corrientes, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, Neuquen, Santa Fe y Tierra del Fuego.

Esta estructura de ejecución permitió el amplio impacto territorial que tuvo el Programa, habiendo
asignado una importante capacidad de gestión a nivel provincial y local para el desarrollo de los
proyectos.

Con esta estructura, fueron realizadas varias estimaciones y proyecciones para la ejecución del
Programa. Desde el punto de vista del gobierno nacional, las principales planificaciones fueron: i) la
proyección de desembolsos efectuada para todo el período de ejecución del proyecto, y ii) la asignación
preliminar de recursos a las provincias, con el mecanismo de redistribución para ajustar la asignación
inicial a las provincias. Ambos instrumentos resultaron adecuados para la gestión del Programa.



C. PRINCIPALES LECCIONES APRENDIDAS


Planificación sectorial

Una de las cuestiones más significativas que surge de la evaluación del Programa en relación al marco
de referencia sobre el que apoyar la selección de inversiones, ha sido la referida a los procesos de
planificación estratégica y urbano-territoriales que han permitido mejorar y potenciar la calidad de las
mismas y posibilitar un esquema de priorización de las intervenciones.

El Programa tendió a financiar proyectos en una gran cantidad de sectores, sin una política que
preanunciara una estrategia a mediano o largo plazo.        La demanda de financiamiento se concentró en
ciertos sectores de interés prioritario para las municipalidades, con una mirada más bien de corto plazo.
Una mirada más estratégica puede y debe ser desarrollada.

Asimismo, en muchos casos se financiaron proyectos específicos, no estimulando la creación de
procesos sistemáticos de identificación, preparación e implementación de proyectos.

Finalmente, la ejecución de proyectos como el M3M mostró la importancia de la planificación sectorial
y la posibilidad de apoyo de estos procesos a través de Programas como el PDM-II.


Concentración en menos sectores

El PDMII ha financiado una gran cantidad de proyectos en distintos sectores. Esto respondió a un
criterio de diseño del Programa donde las necesidades de los municipios eran muy amplias y no había
ningún tipo de fuente de financiamiento especial. La evaluación del Programa sugiere restringir la
amplitud de tipos de proyectos y la concentración en sectores prioritarios tanto para el gobierno nacional
como para los gobiernos provinciales, con el objeto de contribuir a resolver los problemas centrales de
infraestructura a nivel local, en especial en el sector de saneamiento.

La demanda de financiamiento fue concentrada en inversiones físicas, tales como rehabilitación de rutas,
mejoramiento de caminos, y adquisición de equipos de mantenimiento, postergando los proyectos del
desarrollo institucional.   En general, en los municipios se evalúa que estos proyectos (DI) tienen
resultados a largo plazo, o que los impactos en el municipio son menos claros o "palpables", por lo que
no se priorizan a pesar del reconocer su necesidad. Por ello se considera relevante hacer un esfuerzo
para mostrar las experiencias exitosas en este sector.

La clarificación de las responsabilidades y competencias en los distintos niveles de gestión. Uno de



                                                   - 25 -

los aspectos de mayor fortaleza en la ejecución del PDM II ha sido la distribución adecuada de
responsabilidades entre los distintos niveles.

Guías de formulación de proyectos

Los distintos involucrados en la gestión del Programa han valorizado positivamente la utilización de las
guías de formulación de proyectos para la preparación de los proyectos. Si bien se considera la
necesidad de reformulación para una nueva etapa, su utilización resultó altamente provechosa.

Resolución de problemas, no financiar obras de infraestructura sin considerar aspectos de gestión y
sustentabilidad

Los proyectos que mayor impacto han conseguido fueron aquellos que se plantearon como proyectos
integrales, donde la inversión en obra ha sido un componente (si bien el más importante a nivel de
costos), también consideró la gestión y sustentabilidad de la inversión y el fortalecimiento o capacitación
de las agencias vinculadas con la gestión del proyecto.

La participación de la comunidad

Los proyectos en los que hubo mayor participación comunitaria mejoraron la gestión y sustentabilidad
de los mismos, y gobernabilidad general de los gobiernos locales. Damos como ejemplo las experiencias
desarrolladas en Río Grande, Ushuaia, Tandil y Rauch (Pcia. De Buenos Aires), en proyectos Piletas de
oxidación, Ampliación de la red colectora y de la planta de tratamiento de residuos cloacales en el
municipio de Neuquén.

Si bien el estímulo a la participación vecinal no fue prevista dentro del diseño del programa, y sí fue
posteriormente incorporada en los proyectos M3M, es importante resaltar que debe ser promovida
especialmente. Podrían preverse instancias o condiciones de elegibilidad que de algún modo exijan al
Municipio a la búsqueda de consensos sobre las prioridades de las obras a implementar. Esto es
particularmente importante, aunque no únicamente, en los procesos de reforma institucional

La participación puede fortalecer la sustentabilidad de los proyectos de dos maneras; primero, como ya
se mencionó, porque en la elección de las prioridades o de las alternativas, se reduce la probabilidad de
que esta pueda estar orientado por malas elecciones técnicas, discrecionalidad,           electoralismo, o
simplemente confusión (por una inadecuada "visión de la ciudad") vis a vis las expectativas o deseos de
los vecinos. Por otro lado, el compromiso vecinal puede convertirse en apoyos que las áreas técnicas
pueden construir al exterior de la organización municipal, que contribuyan a la perdurabilidad de los
resultados de los proyectos a través de las distintas gestiones, obligando a los diferentes partidos a
asumir los proyectos como iniciativas "de estado".

Promoción de la responsabilidad ciudadana

El Programa ayudó a crear una conciencia de la disciplina respecto del pago de las tasas y
contribuciones a nivel municipal y a transparentar la relación financiera entre las municipalidades y
provincias.

Asociación de municipios

Para algunas inversiones compartidas, acueductos, caminos productivos, etc., ejemplos en varios
proyectos de la Provincia de Buenos Aires (caminos productivos, RAFAM, etc.)

Desarrollo de capacidad institucional en municipios y provincias

El Programa ha contribuido a incrementar el nivel de profesionalidad al dejar instalado un apreciable
know how en municipios medianos y grandes y por admitir proyectos de capacitación




                                                 - 26 -

D. RECOMENDACIONES AL BANCO MUNDIAL

En función de la experiencia, se puede recomendar que el diseño de estructuras de gestión para
Programas con características similares al PDM-II responda a criterios de descentralización, con
Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales con capacidad de gestión y de control. Debería requerirse como
condición de autonomía de las UEP una capacidad técnica demostrable en el conjunto del equipo de
trabajo y recursos físicos tales como equipos informáticos, acceso a internet, equipos de comunicación,
vehículos para el traslado al interior de la provincia y disposición de recursos corrientes mínimos, según
tipo y tamaño de proyectos en gestión.

Se debería prever un plan de capacitación desde el comienzo de cada Programa, y programar acciones
correctivas de asistencia técnica y capacitación en los casos en que se observen debilidades en la
ejecución de los programas, y que generen déficits operativos visibles.

En proyectos descentralizados con una amplia distribución de proyectos a nivel territorial, la
Implementación de un software integral que considere los requerimientos de información del nivel
nacional y provincial es indispensable a la hora de establecer los arreglos institucionales pertinentes.

Por otra parte, se recomienda el desarrollo de iniciativas sistemáticas de intercambio de experiencias
desarrolladas por los Municipios en el marco de los Programas, que podrían facilitar la identificación de
dificultades comunes y la adopción de acciones correctivas, así como favorecer interacciones que
potencialmente podrían evolucionar el desarrollo de proyectos asociados.

Programas de esta envergadura requieren indefectiblemente de claros sistemas de comunicación tanto
verticales como horizontales. Un primer paso para facilitar la comunicación UEN-UEP-Municipios, es
el desarrollo de un página web la cual debe contar con las siguientes características:
·     Contar con información actualizada
·     Canales de acceso "públicos" y "privados"
·     Difusión de casos exitosos
·     Banco de proyectos: Incorporación de proyectos "ejemplo" y de un banco de proyectos y desarrollo
de una vinculación entre municipios para intercambio de experiencias sobre el desarrollo de los
proyectos.
·     Canal de consulta para proveedores
·     Registro de buenos proveedores: Desarrollo de un sistema de información al alcance de los
municipios participantes sobre desempeño de proveedores.


Minimizar las diferencias entre las metodologías de contratación de ambos Bancos, promoviendo la
utilización de los aspectos más eficientes de cada uno.

El Banco debería propender a mejoras en la gestión de los desembolsos: Reducción de los tiempos de
gestión bancaria y de rendiciones por parte de las UEP y Municipios

Debería contemplarse un enfoque que privilegie las acciones de reforma y fortalecimiento institucional,
permitiendo priorizar una necesidad detectada: la de planificación estratégica. Es imprescindible, por
razones de eficacia, eficiencia y sustentabilidad, que los proyectos a financiar orientado al
financiamiento de inversiones municipales se inserten en el marco de planes estratégicos desarrollados
por cada municipio. Esto permitiría asegurar que las acciones y proyectos encarados se inserten en una
planificación global, y reducir la probabilidad de que el financiamiento sea dirigido por criterios poco
técnicos o que no se ajusten a las necesidades y demandas prioritarias de los municipios.




                                                  - 27 -

   Los procedimientos del Banco deberían asegurar la mayor eficacia y eficiencia en la ejecución de los
   subproyectos, de una mejor comunicación entre Unidades y ejecutores, y el desarrollo de mecanismos
   que aseguren calidad y menor costo.

   Otra recomendación se vincula con enfatizar los enfoques integrales, en el proceso de ejecución de los
   proyectos. En este sentido, la experiencia del M3M ha sido muy positiva, y por ende demostró ser una
   metodología que, con sus ajustes, puede ser replicada en varios municipios.

   Las misiones del Banco deberían trabajar en colaboración directa con las unidades ejecutoras, en
   función de la variedad de situaciones que se puedan presentar.

   Es necesario definir procesos de monitoreo más ajustados promoviendo la introducción de un conjunto
   de indicadores estratégicos, que permitan identificar problemas en la ejecución y detectar en forma
   temprana los desvíos. En este sentido, es imprescindible la implementación de un buen proceso de
   sistematización de información de la gestión de los proyectos, de seguimiento, monitoreo e impacto, no
   solamente de registro de movimientos financieros de los proyectos.

   Por último, es necesario destacar que, en general, se ha verificado un importante compromiso de los
   recursos humanos municipales, con la gestión de los mismos y el cambio en sus prácticas burocráticas.
   Los eventos de capacitación regionales para lanzar la tercera etapa del programa, podrían resultar
   espacios concretos de comunicación y apoyo intermunicipal.                 Es importante, sin embargo,
   institucionalizar reuniones periódicas entre intendentes y funcionarios técnicos de las diferentes zonas.

   Restaría comentar el problema de la declaración de no elegibilidad de procedimientos (missprocurement
   ) y la afectación que se hace al Programa.     Ello se produjo por no contar, desde el comienzo, con un
   instrumento adecuado de auditoria técnica interna y monitoreo permanente de los proyectos, de forma de
   poder corregir rápidamente dichas observaciones.        En caso contrario el cargo debería hacerse al
   municipio y no sobre la totalidad del Programa, perdiendo los fondos asignados y afectando al resto de
   las provincias participantes. Observado esto, en el último período (2002-2003 en adelante) se
   implementó un procedimiento de revisión y seguimiento físico de todos los proyectos ene ejecución.



   UNIDAD EJECUTORA NACIONAL
   UCPYPFE
   MINISTERIO DE PLANIFICACION FEDERAL,

   14 de diciembre de 2005

(b) Cofinanciers:
Input was requested from the IABD Task manager, but no answer has been received as of today.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

The individuals interviewed in the course of the preparation of this report include:




                                                    - 28 -

National Coordinating Unit                      Buenos Aires Project Executing Unit
Guillermo Cappelletti, Coordinator              Adriana Martín, Coordinator
Jorge Acosta                                    Patricia Tombesi
Marisa Alvarez                                  Pablo Salvioli Director
Susana Benedit                                  Marcelo Arrufat
David Calori                                    Oscar Jalid
Raúl Peronja                                    Raúl Meda
                                                Verónica Merbilhaá
                                                Ariel Serrano
                                                Nora Tilbe
Province of Mendoza                             Misiones Project Executing Unit
María F. Rubio, International Financing Unit    Miguel Vogeli, Coordinator
                                                Graciela Villanueva
                                                Gustavo Ortega
                                                Laura Rojas
                                                Viviana Rovira
Tierra del Fuego Project Executing Unit         Municipality of Apóstoles (Misiones)
Mercedes Méndez                                 José Ramón Cura, Mayor
Héctor Orlandi                                  Ana María Puerta, former mayor
                                                María Eugenia Zafrán
                                                Analía Abraham
Municipality of Lobos (Buenos Aires)            Municipality of Morón (Buenos Aires)
Prof. Gustavo Sobrero, Mayor                    Martín Sabbatella, Mayor
Cr. Javier Ginastasio, Minister of Finances     Estela Santos
Municipal Staff                                 Luis María De Luca
Ing. Mónica Beccaría                            Daniel Larrache
Mr. Alberto Meluendes                           María del Rosario Ponce
                                                Inés Rivero
Municipality of Tandil (Buenos Aires)           Municipality of Río Grande (Tierra del Fuego)
Miguel Angel Lunghi, Mayor                      Jorge Martín, Mayor
Carlos Alberto Fernández                        Gabriel Clementino
Francisco Jorge Nogues                          Rafael Naccarato
Omar Andrés Groh                                José Labrocca
Marcela Cristina Espino                         Paulino Rossi
Luis Edgardo Jensen                             Ariel Pagella
                                                Gustavo Melella
                                                Enrique Gallo
                                                Ana Pérsico
                                                Karina Valdeiglesias
                                                Alfredo Ballarini
Municipality of Ushuaia (Tierra del Fuego)
Pablo Wolaniuk
Mariano Pombo
Alberto Speranza
Graciela Beatriz Río
Jorge Ontivero
Luis A. Romano
Viviana Guglielmi
Francisco Lerario
Horacio Burgos




                                               - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Project Development         Key Performance                            Actual Achievement
        Objective                   Indicators                  Dec. 2001           At Project Completion


A. External and internal   At least 95% of the          71% of the total amounts   72.1% of the total
resources mobilized in a   outstanding municipal        of municipal subsidiary    amounts of municipal
non-deficit, non-          subsidiary loans should      loans are being paid in    subsidiary loans are
inflationary manner to     be repaid on time.           time.                      being paid in time.
finance justified
municipal investment.      At least 65% of the total    64% of the total cost of   Level of cost recovery is
                           cost of the aggregate        the investments is being   61%, although it does
                           investments recovered        recovered from cost        not reflect the exchange
                           from final beneficiaries in  savings, municipal         gap resulting from the
                           each municipality in a       revenues, or payments      devaluation.
                           given year.                  from final beneficiaries.

                           Municipal Development        MDFs established in all    While MDFs are
                           Funds (MDFs)                 participating provinces.   established in all
                           established, adequately      Buenos Aires, Córdoba      participating provinces,
                           regulated and                and Santa Fe are using     their soundness as
                           operational in each          to finance additional      sustainable financial
                           province.                    municipal investments.     instruments was
                                                                                   hampered by the
                                                                                   devaluation, particularly
                                                                                   in provinces that
                                                                                   absorbed the exchange
                                                                                   risk.
B. Municipalities'         The change in the            3 to 100% increase in      More than 14 million
capacity strengthened to   coverage of municipal        coverage. Approx.          beneficiaries, incl.
better plan, finance, and  services due to each         17.5% of beneficiaries     almost 7 million direct
execute cost-effective     subproject should be         with unsatisfied basic     beneficiaries; roughly
capital investment         adequately recorded.         needs (UBNs)               20% of beneficiaries with
programs.                                                                          UBNs.

                           At least 90% of all          Accomplished.              Accomplished.
                           subprojects should begin
                           implementation within
                           180 days after the
                           signing of the subsidiary
                           loan agreement.
 C. Municipal and          At least 30% of all          638 out of a total of 993  515 of out of a total of
provincial institutional   municipalities in the        municipalities in the 10   993 municipalities in the
capacity strengthened to   participating provinces      participating provinces    10 participating
better manage their        should participate in the    participated in the        provinces participated in
resources and to           program.                     project--equiv. to 64%.    the project--equiv. to
increase the efficiency in                                                         52%
the delivery of services.  Number of municipal          1,700 municipal agents.    Not available.
                           staff trained as a result
                           of the program.
                           At least 6% of total         12% of all project funds   6.2% of all project funds
                           project funds to finance     allocated to ID            allocated to ID
                           institutional development    subprojects                subprojects.
                           (ID) subprojects.
                           At least 30% of all          47% of all physical        Approx. 40% of all
                           physical investments to      investments have a         physical investments
                           have a direct impact on      direct impact on           have a direct impact on
                           productive activities.       productive activities.     productive activities.




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Component               Costs Estimated at Appraisal                   Actual Costs
                      Local    Foreign     Total      %      Local   Foreign    Total   %
 Municipal
 Infrastructure        163.0       80.0     243.0      81.0   181.6      63.7    245.3  93.5
 Institutional
 Strengthening            7.0      10.0      17.0      5.7      11.8      0.1     11.9   4.5
 Project
 Administration          40.0        --      40.0      13.3      5.2               5.2   2.0
 Total Project Cost
 Bank Portion          210.0       90.0     300.0     100.0   198.6      63.8    262.4 100.0
 Total Project Cost
 IADB Portion              ---       ---    300.0                ---       ---   276.0
 Total Project Cost        ---       ---    600.0                ---       ---   538.4




                     Costs Estimated at Appraisal                     Actual Costs
                Local    Foreign      Total       %        Local   Foreign     Total    %
Bank             120.0         90.0     210.0      35.0     150.3     48.3       198.6   36.8
IADB                                    210.0      35.0                          187.0   34.8
Municipalities   180.0                  180.0      30.0     152.8                152.8   28.4
Total                                   600.0    100.0                           538.4  100.0




                                                 - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N.A.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/12/1994                5    URBAN FINANCIAL SPEC.
                                             (1), TM; TRANSPORT SPCLST.
                                             (1);CIVIL ENG. (1)
                                             ;OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ACCT/FIN. ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/21/1994                6    URBAN FINANCIAL
                                             SPEC. (1), TM;
                                             TRANSPORT SPCLST. (1);
                                             CIVIL ENG. (1) ;
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPCLST.(1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1); ACCT/FIN.
                                             ANALYST (1)

 Supervision

              05/12/1995                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             URBAN SPECIALIST (1)
              07/05/1995                5    URBAN FINANCIAL SPEC.            S               S
                                             (1); TM,TRANSPORT SPCLST.
                                             (1); CIVIL ENG. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ACCT/FIN. ANALYST (1)
              12/08/1995                2    URBAN SPECIALIST (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
              06/04/1996                2    URBAN SPECIALIST (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              10/19/1996                2    URBAN SPECIALIST (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              06/13/1997                2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/25/1998                5    MISSION LEADER (1);              HS             HS
                                             MUNICIPAL FINANCE (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEVE. (1);
                                             SECTOR LEADER (1)
              03/03/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1); URBAN          HS             HS
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT (1)
              09/22/1999                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/14/2000                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             MUNICIPAL SPECIALIST (1)
              12/14/2000                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS



                                              - 33 -

                                            ENVIRONM. SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (2)
               05/01/2001              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS    HS
                                            CONSULTANT (2)
               12/16/2001              6    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    HS
                                            CONSULTANT (4);
                                            ENVIRONMENT (1)
               09/06/2002              6    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            OPERATIONS (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
                                            (1); CIVIL WORKS (1); URBAN
                                            DEVELOPMENT (1)
               09/05/2003              5    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            OPERATIONS (1);
                                            MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            31.9                           75.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 31.2                           65.3
  Supervision                          221.6                         440.6
  ICR                                      15                          45.9
  Total                                299.7                         627.3




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Central Coordinating Unit (1996-2005), Semi-Annual Progress Reports, National Government, Buenos
   Aires, Argentina.
Research for Decision (2004.a), Informe Final de Evaluacion de Proyectos del Programa de
   Financiamiento a Municipios, Relevamiento Cualitativo, Municipios y UEP, Buenos Aires,
   Argentina.
Research for Decision (2004.b), Informe Final de Evaluacion de Proyectos del Programa de
   Financiamiento a Municipios, Resúmen Ejecutivo, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Research for Decision (2004.c), Informe Final de Evaluacion de Proyectos del Programa de
   Financiamiento a Municipios, Encuestas a Intendentes, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Research for Decision (2004.d), Informe Final de Evaluacion de Proyectos del Programa de
   Financiamiento a Municipios, Fichas Individuales de Evaluación de Proyectos, Buenos Aires,
   Argentina.
World Bank (1996-2005), Documents in Project's Electronic File, including Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office
   Reports, Project Status Reports, Project Financial Assessments, and Project Procurement Assessments;
   IRIS, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1997), Implementation Completion Report ­ Argentina: First Municipal Development
   Project (Ln. 2920-AR), Report No. 16641, 30 May 1997, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1995), Staff Appraisal Report ­ Argentina: Second Municipal Development Project, Report
   No. 13600, 6 March 2005, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1995), Argentina ­ Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 14278-AR, Washington, D.C.




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Municipal Participation by Province

                                                          Municipalities
                         Provinces
                                                  Total      PDM II      %

                         Buenos Aires             134          88          65.7
                         Catamarca                 33          29          87.9
                         Córdoba                  249          65          26.1
                         Corrientes                66          28          42.4
                         La Rioja                  18          18         100.0
                         Mendoza                   18          18         100.0
                         Misiones                  75          75         100.0
                         Neuquén                   34          34         100.0
                         Santa Fe                 363          157         43.3
                         Tierra del Fuego          3            3         100.0
                         Total                    993          515        51.9



Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, June 2005




                                                    - 38 -

Additional Annex 9. Relative Weights of Provincial Portfolio

                                   Provincial Portfolio
              Provinces                                       Population    Loan Proceeds
                                   US$ Million        %          ('000)       per Capita

              Buenos Aires                  65.0         34.3     13,827.2                4.7
              Catamarca                      1.7          0.9         334.6               4.9
              Córdoba                       36.6         19.3       3,066.8              11.9
              Corrientes                     7.5          4.0         931.0               8.1
              La Rioja                       8.6          4.5         290.0              29.7
              Mendoza                       11.0          5.8       1,579.7               7.0
              Misiones                       6.6          3.5         965.5               6.8
              Neuquén                       23.1         12.2         474.2              48.7
              Santa Fe                      18.0          9.5       3,000.7               6.0
              Tierra del Fuego              10.4          5.5         101.1             103.0
              M3M                            1.2          0.6

              Total                       189.6       100.0          24,571               7.7



Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, June 2005; INDEC, Ministry of Economy




                                                    - 39 -

Additional Annex 10. Aggregate Cost Recovery Rates

                                              Total Cost of        Number of     Cost
     Cost Recovery Methodology                 Subprojects        Subprojects   Recovery

                                          US$ millions     %       #      %       %

     Direct Beneficiaries                          79.04   49.7     167    36.8      55.4
          Betterment levies                        75.21   47.3      155   34.1      54.6
          Concessions                                1.01    0.6       2    0.4      -
          User charges                               2.83    1.8      10    2.2      86.5
     Cost Savings                                  29.85   18.8      73    16.1      82.0
     Municipal revenues                            50.17   31.5     214    47.1      58.4
          Municipal taxes                            7.79    4.9      28    6.2      85.4
          Municipal fees                           33.11   20.8      172   37.9      54.7
          Other municipal sources                    9.28    5.8      14    3.1      74.4
     Total                                        159.07  100.0      454  100.0      61.0



Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, May 2005




                                                    - 40 -

Additional Annex 11. Cost Recovery Rates by Type of Subproject


                                                 Emitted         Collected      Cost Recovery
           Type of Subproject
                                             (US$ million)     (US$ million)           %

           Urban Infrastructure                         12.0            11.6                96.7
           Sanitation                                   18.0            11.9                66.0
           Equipment                                    39.2            24.1                61.0
           Road infrastructure                          39.0            19.7                50.0
           Community Facilities                          4.1             3.9                96.0
           Institutional Development                     4.0             0.2                 4.0

           Total *                                    116.3             71.3                61.0

            * Cost recovery is still ongoing, for which total emitted amount is smaller than
               the total subproject cost shown in the previous table.



  Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, May 2005




                                                    - 41 -

Additional Annex 12. Cost Recovery Rates by Province


                                           Emitted             Collected        Cost Recovery
            Province
                                         (US$ million)        (US$ million)            %

            Buenos Aires                             24.4               19.9                81.5
            Catamarca                                 1.9                1.9               100.0
            Córdoba                                  18.0                6.9                38.5
            Corrientes                                3.4                2.2                65.8
            La Rioja                                  5.9                1.8                30.5
            Mendoza                                   1.9                0.9                47.7
            Misiones                                  6.2                4.5                72.8
            Neuquén                                   8.3                5.5                65.8
            Santa Fe                                 36.2               20.4                56.5
            Tierra del Fuego                         10.2                7.3                71.1
            Total *                                116.3                71.3                61.0

            * Cost recovery is still ongoing, for which total emitted amount is smaller than
               the total subproject cost shown in the previous table.



  Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, May 2005




                                                   - 42 -

   Additional Annex 13. Repayment of Municipal Debt to Provincial Governments by
   Province

                           Total Muncipal            Repayment Emitted (US$ million)               Repayment Collected (US$ mil
 Province                       Loans

                             (US$ million)         Principal      Interest         Total          Principal    Interest

 As of Dec. 2001

 Buenos Aires                      68,739,761       10,103,667      7,724,017     17,827,684         9,210,898  7,618,796   16,
 Catamarca                          1,421,083            61,527       152,870         214,397           13,025      90,630
 Córdoba                           51,994,975        4,590,615      5,942,193     10,532,808           331,157    349,461
 Corrientes                        10,300,755        3,124,381      1,687,034      4,811,415         2,472,155  1,331,722    3,
 La Rioja                           4,070,494          491,060        293,879         784,939          461,277    263,353
 Mendoza                           11,817,826        1,238,826        924,516      2,163,342         1,070,420    499,906    1,
 Misiones                           9,712,606          560,126        609,942      1,170,068           393,481    456,358
 Neuquén                           11,348,045        1,522,548        824,175      2,346,723         1,338,557    740,642    2,
 Santa Fe                          15,475,401        3,653,363      2,521,237      6,174,600         3,524,820  2,486,417    6,
 Tierra del Fuego                   8,108,722          564,295        480,951      1,045,246           340,607    293,561

Total                            192,989,668        25,910,408    21,160,814      47,071,222       19,156,397  14,130,846   33,
   w/o Cordoba                  140,994,693        21,319,793    15,218,621       36,538,414      18,825,240   13,781,385

 As of Project Completion

 Buenos Aires *                   65,216,473       30,788,226    15,306,184       46,094,410      29,699,758   14,896,827   44,5
 Catamarca                         1,652,569          691,726        456,838       1,148,564          339,833     320,098
 Córdoba *                        36,562,360       29,110,162    10,983,205       40,093,367        8,174,332   2,732,701   10,9
 Corrientes *                      7,549,839         4,187,437     1,859,693       6,047,130        2,312,280   1,471,924    3,7
 La Rioja                          8,610,559        3,793,489      1,269,907       5,063,396        2,317,598     976,342
 Mendoza *                        11,022,561         4,318,248     1,942,170       6,260,418        1,231,703   1,574,868    2,8
 Misiones                          6,695,651         3,347,432     1,605,108       4,952,540        3,060,730   1,469,429    4,5
 Neuquén                          23,147,582          6,839,485     2,310,354      9,149,839         6,682,554   2,284,935
 Santa Fe *                       17,960,567       11,793,650      5,202,244      16,995,894      11,537,525    5,121,150   16,6
 Tierra del Fuego                 11,137,668        4,603,506      1,549,965       6,153,471        4,575,140   1,540,757

Total                           189,555,830        99,473,359    42,485,669     141,959,028       69,931,453   32,389,031  102,3
   w/o Cordoba                  152,993,470        70,363,197    31,502,464     101,865,661       61,757,121   29,656,330

 * As of December 2004.
Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, Dec. 2004; Provincial Executing Units, Nov. 2005.




                                                         - 43 -

Additional Annex 14. Treatment of Municipal Debt by Province in the Aftermath of the
Devaluation

            Level of Government that Absorbed Exchange Gap
Province                                                                 Comments
           Municipalities  Both      Province   Undetermined
Buenos          x                                            There was a formal renegotiation
Aires                                                        of the MDP-II debt between the
                                                             province and municipalities
                                                             (Decree No. 774/03) in 2003, in
                                                             which repayment period was
                                                             extended to ease the pressure of
                                                             debt servicing on municipalities.
                                                             However, municipal loans would
                                                             be fully recovered under the
                                                             terms set in the agreement,
                                                             including the debt accrued during
                                                             the period 2001-2003, when
                                                             repayment was being calculated
                                                             using a 1:1.4 exchange rate to
                                                             avoid suffocating municipalities
                                                             during the crisis. Payments are
                                                             automatically deducted from
                                                             automatic transfers
                                                             (coparticipation).
Catamarca                                            x       There has been no formal
                                                             decision on who will absorb the
                                                             exchange gap. As of now, the
                                                             province issues payment notices
                                                             using a 1:1 exchange rate, but
                                                             accruing the exchange gap into
                                                             the principal. Payments are
                                                             automatically deducted from the
                                                             coparticipation.
Córdoba                                                      No information available.
Corrientes                                                   No information available.
La Rioja                             De facto        x       There has been no formal
                                                             decision on who will absorb the
                                                             exchange gap. Since April 2002,
                                                             however, the province has done
                                                             so de facto, as it calculates
                                                             repayment using a 1:1.4 rate and
                                                             absorbing the difference.
                                                             Payments are automatically
                                                             deducted from the
                                                             coparticipation.
Mendoza                              De facto        x       There has been no formal
                                                             decision on who will absorb the
                                                             exchange gap. As of now, the
                                                             province issues payment notices
                                                             using current exchange rates, but
                                                             have ceased to automatically
                                                             deduct payments from the
                                                             coparticipation. Some
                                                             municipalities are still paying, but
                                                             most of them are in default.
Misiones        x                                            While payments were done using
                                                             a 1:1 exchange rate during 2002,
                                                             the difference resulting from the
                                                             difference in the exchange rate
                                                             was later accrued into the
                                                             municipalities' debt (Decree No.
                                                             1676/03). Payments are
                                                             automatically deducted from the



                                              - 44 -

         Municipalitie  Both     Province Undetermine
             s                                 d
Province  Level of    Comments
         Government
            that
          Absorbed
          Exchange
            Gap
                       De facto                x      Repayment was suspended during
Neuqué                                                the 2002-2003, as part of the
n                                                     broader process of debt
                                                      renegotiation with the national
                                                      government (Decree No. 2737/02).
                                                      The final outcome of these
                                                      negotiations is still pending, with
                                                      the 2002-2003 debt being
                                                      considered overdue and unpaid.
                                                      Municipal debt repayment was
                                                      reinitiated in January 2004,
                                                      utilizing current exchange rates. In
                                                      the case of Neuquén, the financial
                                                      impact of the devaluation on
                                                      municipalities have been lessened
                                                      by the significant increase in
                                                      municipal revenues--approximately
                                                      280 percent between 2001 and
                                                      2005--primarily as a result of the
                                                      increase in 'regalías' (oil and gas),
                                                      which are priced in US dollars.
                                                      Four municipalities are regularly
                                                      satisfying their repayment
                                                      obligations. In the case of the
                                                      remaining eleven municipalities,
                                                      the payments are automatically
                                                      discounted from the coparticipation
                                                      .
Santa Fe                  x                           During the period 2001-2004, debt
                                                      repayment was estimated using
                                                      1:1 exchange rate. There has
                                                      been a formal renegotiation of the
                                                      MDP-II debt between
                                                      municipalities and the province at
                                                      the end of 2004, which
                                                      established: i) the utilization of
                                                      current exchange rates from
                                                      January 2004 onwards; ii) an
                                                      increase in the debt amount
                                                      equivalent to the exchange rate
                                                      gap accrued during 2004; and iii)
                                                      an extension of repayment period.
                                                      In the case of loans signed after
                                                      January 2002, debt repayment has
                                                      been always calculated using
                                                      current exchange rates. Payments
                                                      are automatically deducted from
                                                      the coparticipation.

Tierra       x                                        Municipalities have fully absorbed



                                         - 45 -

del                                                         the exchange risk. Repayment has
Fuego                                                       always been calculated using
                                                            current exchange rates, even when
                                                            the dollar reached closed to Arg$4
                                                            in 2002.


Source: Provincial Executing Units, November 2005.




                                                  - 46 -

Additional Annex 15. Physical Investment and Institutional Development Subprojects by
Province

                      Physical Investments          Institutional Development             Total
  Provinces            Amount            %              Amount             %             Amount
                    (US$ Million)                    (US$ Million)                     (US$ Million)

  Buenos Aires                  60.0       92.4                    4.9        7.6                65.0
  Catamarca                      1.5       92.1                    0.1        7.9                 1.7
  Córdoba                       36.3       99.3                    0.3        0.7                36.6
  Corrientes                     7.4       97.9                    0.2        2.1                 7.5
  La Rioja                       7.0       81.2                    1.6       18.8                 8.6
  Mendoza                       10.4       93.9                    0.7        6.1                11.0
  Misiones                       5.9       89.2                    0.7       10.8                 6.6
  Neuquén                       21.9       94.7                    1.2        5.3                23.1
  Santa Fe                      17.6       98.0                    0.4        2.0                18.0
  Tierra del Fuego               9.8       94.5                    0.6        5.5                10.4
  M3M                                                              1.2      100.0                 1.2
  Total                       177.8        93.8                 11.8          6.2              189.6

                      Physical Investments          Institutional Development           Total # of

                    # of Subprojects     %         # of Subprojects        %           Subprojects


  Buenos Aires                  168        73.7                    60        26.3               228.0
  Catamarca                        6       75.0                      2       25.0                   8
  Córdoba                       106        91.4                    10         8.6                 116
  Corrientes                     36        90.0                      4       10.0                  40
  La Rioja                         6       60.0                      4       40.0                  10
  Mendoza                        17        85.0                      3       15.0                  20
  Misiones                       55        77.5                    16        22.5                  71
  Neuquén                        52        68.4                    24        31.6                  76
  Santa Fe                      172        85.6                    29        14.4                 201
  Tierra del Fuego               21        77.8                      6       22.2                  27
  M3M                                                              14       100.0                  14
  Total                         639        78.8                  172         21.2                811



                         Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, June 2005




                                              - 47 -

Additional Annex 16. Composition of the MDP-II Subproject Portfolio


 Type of Subprojects                                      Total Cost           IBRD Financing

                                                  US$'000           %         US$'000      %

 Physical Investments Portfolio                        238,260       100.0 *    177,762     100.0 *
 Urban Services                                          52,730       22.1       39,481      22.2
     Water                                                9,696        4.1        7,272       4.1
     Street Lighting                                     13,158        5.5        9,868       5.6
     Sewerage                                            18,377        7.7       13,783       7.8
     Gas                                                  1,863        0.8        1,189       0.7
     Solid waste collection                               8,976        3.8        6,875       3.9
     Others                                                 660        0.3          495       0.3
 Other Sanitation                                        16,582        7.0       12,416       7.0
     Flood protection                                     1,195        0.5          896       0.5
     Drainage                                            14,279        6.0       10,689       6.0
     Environmental sanitation                             1,107        0.5          830       0.5
 Road Infrastructure                                   107,570        45.1       80,119      45.1
     Road Networks                                        3,308        1.4        2,472       1.4
     Street paving                                     103,646        43.5       77,185      43.4
     Traffic signals                                        615        0.3          461       0.3
 Community Facilities                                    20,392        8.6       14,943       8.4
     Recreational areas                                   3,448        1.4        2,248       1.3
     Slaughter houses                                       352        0.1          264       0.1
     Bus terminals                                        8,288        3.5        6,216       3.5
     Cemeteries                                               77       0.0           58       0.0
     Community facilities                                 8,093        3.4        6,057       3.4
     Others                                                 134        0.1          100       0.1
 Equipment                                               40,987       17.2       30,802      17.3
     Ambulances                                             957        0.4          748       0.4
     Maintanance equipment                                8,929        3.7        6,697       3.8
     Construction equipment                                 215        0.1          161       0.1
     Solid waste collection equipment                     2,347        1.0        1,760       1.0
     Road-related equipment                              27,659       11.6       20,776      11.7
     Vehicles                                               880        0.4          660       0.4

 Institutional Development Portfolio                     13,589      100.0 **    11,793     100.0 **

 Municipal Core Functions                               9,015.8       66.3      7,956.6      67.5

    Administrative restructuring                        3,925.0       28.9      3,408.2      28.9
    Territorial/urban planning                          1,943.5       14.3      1,891.0      16.0
    Cadastre systems                                    1,458.2       10.7      1,206.6      10.2
    Tax administration                                  1,031.1        7.6        868.4       7.4
    Financial administration                              561.5        4.1        497.2       4.2
    Local economic development                              96.5       0.7         85.2       0.7
 ITC and Office Equipment                               3,535.1       26.0      2,896.0      24.6
 Capacity Building                                         387.4       2.9        352.4       3.0
 Strengthening of PEUs                                     619.0       4.6        557.3       4.7
 Others                                                     31.2       0.2         31.2       0.3
    Auditing                                                31.2       0.2         31.2       0.3

 Overall Portfolio                                     251,849       100.0     189,556     100.0

 * Percentage relative to physical investments portfolio.
 ** Percentage relative to insitutional development portfolio.
Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, June 2005.




                                                         - 48 -

   Additional Annex 17. Type of Physical Investment Subprojects by Province

Province             Urban Services             Other Sanitation       Road Infrastructure Community Facilities

                        Total Cost                  Total Cost            Total Cost           Total Cost
                    US$ ('000)      %          US$ ('000)       %      US$ ('000)    %      US$ ('000)   %

Buenos Aires             29,852      37.2            7,101        8.9     26,619     33.2         4,408     5.5
Catamarca                   232      11.4               -        -            -        -            -       -
Corrientes                   -        -                220        2.2       6,220    62.1           42      0.4
Córdoba                   2,283       4.7            2,064        4.3     42,188     87.2          225      0.5
La Rioja                  4,510      49.4            4,607       50.4         -        -            15      0.2
Mendoza                   1,603      10.9               -        -          7,347    50.0         4,363   29.7
Misiones                    507       6.5               -        -            -        -          1,138   14.7
Neuquén                   7,913      27.1            2,106        7.2       9,812    33.6         7,266   24.9
Santa Fe                  4,191      17.9              484        2.1       5,883    25.1         2,535   10.8
Tierra del Fuego          1,639      12.2               -        -          9,501    70.9          399      3.0
Total                    52,730      22.1           16,582        7.0    107,570     45.1       20,392      8.6

                     IBRD Financing              IBRD Financing         IBRD Financing       IBRD Financing
                    US$ ('000)      %          US$ ('000)       %      US$ ('000)    %      US$ ('000)   %

Buenos Aires             22,389      37.3            5,306        8.8     19,850     33.1         3,306     5.5
Catamarca                   174      11.4               -        -            -        -            -       -
Corrientes                   -        -                165        2.2       4,544    61.5           33      0.5
Córdoba                   1,712       4.7            1,548        4.3     31,641     87.2          169      0.5
La Rioja                  3,525      50.4            3,455       49.4         -        -            11      0.2
Mendoza                     993       9.6               -        -          5,410    52.3         2,920   28.2
Misiones                    380       6.5               -        -            -        -           853    14.6
Neuquén                   5,934      27.1            1,579        7.2       7,359    33.6         5,450   24.9
Santa Fe                  3,144      17.9              363        2.1       4,403    25.0         1,902   10.8
Tierra del Fuego          1,230      12.5               -        -          6,912    70.3          299      3.0
Total                    39,481      22.2           12,416        7.0     80,119     45.1       14,943      8.4


   Source: Central Coordinating Unit, Ministry of Planning, June 2005.




                                                       - 49 -

Additional Annex 18. Main Outcomes of the Municipality of the Third Millennium Pilot
Program


Urban and Territorial Planning
Apóstoles
 l In-depth, highly participatory identification process, which resulted in the concept of Apóstoles Verde as
    the image of the municipality.
 l Urban development plan has been developed together with corresponding normative framework
 l The plan has been approved and formally adopted by city council.
 l Responsibilities have been clearly defined for enforcing and updating the plan within the municipality,
    with adequate allocation of human and physical resources.
Río Grande
 l An in-depth strategic analysis was conducted, which identified the threats and opportunities facing the
    municipality. This process originated the concept of the Patagonia Sur-Sur micro-region, which
    promotes the integration of Rio Grande with Rio Gallegos and Ushuaia in Argentina and Punta Arenas
    in Chile.
 l It also originated the concept of Río Grande Sustentable.
 l Sound urban development plan has been developed together with corresponding normative framework
    as well as detailed land-use maps and supporting municipal ordinances, incl. including a preservation
    and environmental ordinance.
 l The planning staff is now in the process of `educating' city council to get its approval and formal
    adoption of the plan.
San Martin de los Andes
 l A more focused study focusing on tourist aspects, which are of critical importance to this well-know
    tourist center.
Tandil
 l Urban development plan has been developed together with corresponding normative framework. This
    plan is particularly timely, as development pressure is threatening the hill surrounding the city.
 l Although still pending, approval and formal adoption of the plan by city council is highly likely, as city
    council members have been kept well informed of the process.
 l Once approved by city council, the plan needs to be approved by the provincial level, as required by
    provincial law.
Local Economic Development
Apóstoles
 l A local economic development area (Dirección de Desarrollo Económico Local) was established within
    the municipality's finance unit.
 l Training seminars were offered for small and medium entrepreneurs (PyMEs).
 l Apóstoles is at the heart of the yerba mate production area, for which there is substantial tourism
    potential. A tourism corridor has been developed to capitalize on this opportunity.
 l An employment clearinghouse, which concentrates information on individuals seeking work, has been
    established.
 l It is worth noticing that, of the three areas of intervention of the M3M, this one had been the least
    developed one by the mayor that set in motion the M3M concept. The new mayor fully embraced it and
    implemented several of the subprojects that had been identified as part of the M3M diagnosis.




                                                          - 50 -

Local Economic Development (cont.)
Río Grande
 l A local economic development agency (Agencia de Desarrollo Local) has been established within the
    municipality in partnership with the National Technological University (UTN).
 l As part of the efforts to foster the development of small and medium enterprises, the newly established
    local development agency has worked with local furniture manufacturers and artisans to help them
    modernize their designs and develop a distinctive `Muebles Fueguinos' style, as well as to adopt quality
    standards and control mechanisms to achieve consistent levels of quality. They have also taken their
    products to show fairs in Punta Arenas, successfully expanding their markets. Similar efforts have
    focused on the promotion of fly fishing (pesca artesanal) and the commercialization of moss pit (turba).
 l Another municipal initiative that resulted from the M3M has been the Employment Intermediation Plan (
    Plan de Intermediación Laboral), which works with local and potential employers to detect and address
    the lack of needed skills. Training has been offered technical skills in construction, basic electronics,
    and textiles--both industrial and artisanal.
San Martin de los Andes
 l The diagnosis study of the local economy that was identified as part of the M3M was financed by the
    municipality with its own resources.
 l A database of local economic data was developed under the M3M.
Tandil
 l A database of local economic data has been developed under the M3M, which is being updated
    annually.
 l Implementation of `ProTandil,' an initiative aimed at articulating the various actors in local economic
    development--public, private, community spheres. The new mayor incorporated this initiative as part of
    his electoral platform and is now supporting its further development.
 l The same is the case with a development program aimed at entrepreneurs (formerly called Gestar),
    which is now being implemented by the new mayor with a different name.
Municipal Administrative Reform
Apóstoles
 l Implementation of an integrated municipal management system and supporting computer equipment
    that includes not only the basic financial modules, such as accounting and budgeting, but also other
    capabilities such as maintaining a single register of taxpayers (padrón único de contribuyentes),
    automatic emission of vehicle tax and other municipal fees, monitoring of taxpayer payment plans,
    consolidated file registry, and human resources management.
 l Strong emphasis on capacity building, with 118 out of the 140 municipal personnel participating in a
    total of 37 workshops and seminars focusing on various areas such as management skills, group
    management techniques and customer service.
 l Basic computer training provided to all municipal personnel.
 l Adoption of new internal processes that resulted in significant improvements in internal productivity and
    levels of customer service.
 l Increase in municipal tax collections as a result of the creation of an area for tax compliance and
    inspections in the Finance Department and a cleaning-up of tax payer registries that resulted from the
    implementation of a new IT system.


Municipal Administrative Reform (cont.)
Río Grande
 l Design and implementation of a new organizational structure, the re-categorization of existing
    personnel according to their skills and the profile needed for individual posts. Although the proposed
    organizational reform has generated strong resistance on the part of labor unions and other
    organizations, the municipality is carrying out the renegotiation of contracts of the municipal personnel
    (`paritarias').
 l Implementation of an administrative career in conjunction with the National Technical University (UTN)
    as an incentive for ongoing capacity building within the municipality.
 l Ambitious training program with the participation of 400 out of 1000 municipal staff.
 l Implementation of a new human resources management system, which has reduced absenteeism from
    13 to 11 percent, equivalent to annual savings of US$170,000 per year.
 l Implementation of a financial administration system, including the supporting IT equipment
 l Modernization of the cadastre system, including the regularization of land tenure of 300 plots that have
    been developed in what used to be state land.
San Martin de los Andes
 l A substantial overhaul of the municipal tax administration office, including the reengineering of critical
    processes and the incorporation of new supporting ITCs.
                                                         - 51 -

Tandil
 l Implementation of seven out of the nine modules of the RAFAM, which resulted in considerable gains in
   productivity.
 l An intense participatory process was implemented to develop a shared vision, mission and values for
   the municipality. It involved workshops all levels of municipal staff, participatory activities with
   community organizations, and 217 surveys to help characterize the profile and aspirations of municipal
   personnel.
 l A team of municipal staff in place with the responsibility for improving customer assistance and
   implementing quality assurance programs.




                                                       - 52 -

Additional Annex 19. Municipal Development Funds by Province


Province   Creation of the MDF     Currently                         Comments
                                   financing
                                     other
                                  subproject
                                       s
           Provincial Legislation    Date
Buenos            11661            7/13/1995   YesThe province is currently financing a robust
Aires                                               municipal portfolio, with the MDF funds
                                                   generated during the MDP-I and plans to
                                               continue to do so. In addition, the province has
                                               decided to add additional funds to the MDF for
                                                    additional municipal financing. The MDF
                                              constitutes a more agile financial instrument than
                                               other alternatives available to the province, with
                                                  clear eligibility conditions and lending terms
                                                  defined ex-ante. Moreover, the MDF can be
                                                 self-sustained, as municipal repayments are
                                               deposited into the MDF instead of the provincial
                                                                      treasury.
Catamarca          4875            4/16/1996    NoWhile the MDF has not been used to repay
                                                       the provincial debt to the national
                                                    government--the repayment, instead, is
                                                  automatically deducted from the province's
                                               coparticipation--its capitalization has been slow,
                                                  as municipalities are repaying their debts in
                                               pesos. At this time, there are no plans to use the
                                              MDF to finance other municipal subprojects, with
                                               approx. US$380,000 sitting in a bank account.
Corrientes         4985            9/6/1995                NoNo information available.
Córdoba            8448           12/15/1994   YesThe province is currently financing a robust
                                                    municipal portfolio, with the MDF funds
                                              generated during the MDP-I. Cordoba's situation,
                                               however, is peculiar, as the MDF is funded by a
                                               share of the total municipal coparticipation. This
                                                 arrangement provides Cordoba's MDF with a
                                               substantial and recurrent inflow of funds, which
                                                  has allowed the province to finance a large
                                                                municipal portfolio.
La Rioja           6140            1/18/1996   NoAlthough no formal decision has been made,
                                                it appears that the MDF will be used to absorb
                                              the exchange gap resulting from the devaluation.
Mendoza            6416            6/8/1996                NoNo information available.
Misiones           3261            12/71995    Not at this time, but is about to start.Provincial
                                               Decree No. 1513/05 established the conditions
                                                 for the municipal loans to be financed by the
                                                  MDF. An amount of US$334,000 has been
                                               designated for these loans until a new operation
                                                                    is available.




                                            - 53 -

Additional Annex 20. Illustration of Institutional Development Subprojects

Administrative restructuring (29 percent of ID subprojects)

Godoy Cruz       § It involved the implementation of a fully integrated municipal management system
(Mendoza)             aimed at providing internal users with real-time information on a wide array of
                      variables.
                 § With the new management system, municipal staff can now obtain information on
                      the specific location of a particular file, the time it has been there and what steps
                      are still pending, the profile of each municipal employee including employment
                      history, number and ages of the dependents and health coverage, statistics on
                      municipal taxes collected on that day, week, month or year, as well as the gap with
                      respect to anticipated targets.
                 § The implementation of such a system has yielded substantial improvements in
                      effectiveness, efficiency, transparency and better delivery of administrative
                      services. For example, the number of files being processed per municipal agent
                      increased by almost 30 percent between 2001 2004. Similarly, the annual volume
                      of files processed annually increased by 45 percent over the same period.
                 § AsaresultoftheMDP-II,GodoyCruzhasundergoneadrastictransformationand
                      is now one of the more advanced municipalities in the province.

Urban and territorial planning (14.3 percent of ID subprojects)

Tandil           § Urban development plan has been developed together with corresponding
(Buenos Aires)        normative framework--i.e., lad use maps, zoning ordinances, etc.
                 § This plan is particularly timely, as development pressure is threatening the hill
                      surrounding the city.
                 § Although still pending, approval and formal adoption of the plan by city council is
                      highly likely, as city council members have been kept well informed of the process.
                 § Once approved by city council, the plan needs to be approved by the provincial
                      level, as required by provincial law.

Cadastre systems (10.7 percent of ID subprojects)

Ushuaia          § The municipal cadastre system now has up-to-date information on the totality of
(Tierra del           urban parcels, including informally developed fiscal land.
Fuego)           § Although initially conceived as a complement of the provincial cadastre system
                      financed under the PDP-II, the implementation of the municipal cadastre system
                      has proved critical to the municipality, as the political and institutional disarray in
                      which the province has fallen in the past two years has disrupted the flow of
                      information between the two levels of government.
                 § In the case of Tierra del Fuego, the real-estate tax is under municipal jurisdiction,
                      for which the municipality is actively integrating cadastral information with its tax
                      administration system.
Malvinas         § This cadastre subproject included the reengineering of information flows and
Argentinas            processes, as well as their institutionalization by the adoption of the necessary
(Buenos Aires)        enabling municipal legislation.
Mendoza          § The experience of the province of Mendoza in developing a prototype cadastre
                      system, however, was less successful, particularly in terms of transferring the
                      system developed by the university to the individual municipalities.

Tax administration (7.6 percent of ID subprojects)

Neuquén          § The objectives of the administrative and tax restructuring subproject implemented
(Neuquén)             by municipality of Neuquén were to increase municipal tax collections by 50
                      percent, reduce evasion (morosidad) to 25 percent, rationalize the municipality's
                      tax system, and improve customer service.
                 § Thesubprojecthasjustbeencompleted,forwhichitsfullfiscalimpactisstilltobe
                      realized.
                 § Some of its preliminary outcomes include the elimination of the backlog of
                      unprocessed tax files, the implementation of call centers to respond to taxpayers'
                      inquiries, and the development of Internet-based payment processes.



                                                      - 54 -

Financial administration systems (4.1 percent of ID subprojects)

Morón (Buenos    § The province of Buenos Aires utilized the MDP-IItosupporttheimplementationof
Aires)               its newly developed municipal financial administration system (Reforma de la
                     Administración Financiera en el ámbito Municipal; RAFAM)), which has to be
                     adopted by all municipalities in the province by 2007 (Decree 2980/00).
                 § The individual modules, as well as the operation and user manuals were
                     developed by the province.
                 § The MDP-II financed its deployment within pilot municipalities, the purchase of
                     computer equipment, and personnel training.
                 § InthecaseofthemunicipalityofMorón,forexample,sevenmodulesarenowfully
                     operational in 37 decentralized units, and more than 200 municipal employees
                     have been trained to use the system.
                 § Substantial increases in productivity have resulted from the implementation of the
                     new system, including a 26 percent increase in the annual volume of appeals being
                     processed and a 29 percent increase in the municipal taxes collected per municipal
                     employee when comparing pre- and post-RAFAM levels.
Ushuaia          § Theexperienceofthemunicipalityofisalsonoteworthy,asithasimplementedan
(Tierra del          integrated administrative, financial and economic management system (SIAGEF),
Fuego)               which has become the backbone of an ambitious process of municipal reform.
                 § While originally envisioned for 12 users, the SIAGEF now has more than 150
                     users.
                 § The system has significantly increased the transparency, rationality and efficiency
                     in the use of the municipal resources, including human resources. It has also
                     resulted in drastic increases in productivity.
                 § For example, the processing, monitoring and cancellation of payment plans for
                     municipal taxes was reduced from 9,000 to less than 400 man-hours per years.
                 § Likewise, the generation of reports showing statistics on tax collections, which
                     used to take more than three hours prior to the implementation of the SIAGEF, is
                     now automatic.

Acquisition of computer and office equipment (26 percent of ID subprojects)

Arenales         § With a population of 15,000 inhabitants, Arenales' municipal personnel used to
(Buenos Aires)       carry out most administrative functions by hand or utilizing the computer
                     equipments of a neighboring municipality.
                 § The MDP-II financed the acquisition of 15 personal computers, 15 printers and
                     training for seven municipal employees.
                 § The new equipment has resulted in significant improvements in productivity and
                     customer service, including a reduction in the processing time of a typical
                     municipal transaction from 5-7 days to 1-2 days, the time required to satisfy a
                     specific information request from 3-4 days to 15 minutes, and the annual volume of
                     files (Expedientes 4040) processed from 64 to 211 before and after the subproject.
La Rioja         § Some provinces, such as La Rioja, have financed the acquisition of computer
                     equipment for all their municipalities, capitalizing on economies of scale and
                     providing much needed technical assistance on the selection of ICT equipment.
Buenos Aires     § The province of Buenos Aires financed the purchase of equipment for 15
                     municipalities to connect to the provincial intranet.




                                                   - 55 -

Capacity building (2.9 percent of ID subprojects)

Misiones        § Based on an in-depth diagnosis of the municipal sector, the province of Misiones
                     identified the need for training and capacity building at the municipal level as one
                     the key priorities of its policies toward municipal governments.
                § The Misiones' UEP, in conjunction with the provincial Ministry of Government,
                     designed and implemented a robust training program aimed at all the municipalities
                     in the province.
                § The training was structured around four modules focusing on: i) the role of
                     municipal government in the context of Misiones' public sector reform program; ii)
                     institutional, legal and organization framework of Misiones' municipal sector; iii) an
                     overview of municipal financial resources and their administration; and iv) project
                     preparation and evaluation.
                § During1998,eachofthesefourmodulesthatconsistedofapproximately20hours
                     of training was offered in each of the four geographical areas, reaching 168
                     municipal    agents     (including   managers,   professional and technical staff)
                     representing 59 of the province's 75 municipalities. The subproject was highly
                     effective, laying the foundations for a highly successful implementation of the MDP-
                     II in the province.




                                                      - 56 -

- 57 -

