Page  1
April 2, 1998
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3860-AR (Second Municipal Development Project) 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated October 18, 
1995 (the Loan Agreement), as amended.  
In response to your Ministry’s letter of March 6, 1998 in which the Bank was 
informed that the CCU (as such term is defined in Section 1.02 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement) is now within the Secretariat of Social Development and not within the 
Under Secretariat of Housing as stated in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement, we are 
pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to amend Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement 
to read as follows in its entirety:
"Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying out Part C 
of the Project: (a) maintain, within the Borrower’s Secretariat of Social 
Development, a unit, with staff, responsibilities and functions satisfactory 
to the Bank (the CCU); and (b) provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, all the funds, facilities and other resources required by the CCU to 
carry out its functions and responsibilities in an efficient and timely 
manner.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Roque B. Fernández
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services
Date: no date
