Page  1
November 20, 1997 
Mr. Roque Fernández 
Ministro de Economía y Obras
   y Servicios Públicos 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
1086 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 3860-AR (Second Municipal Development Project) Amendment 
to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated October 18, 
1995 (the Loan Agreement).  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your 
request and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank agrees to amend the Loan 
Agreement as follows:
1.
Schedule 1, paragraph 4 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
"The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for training, for goods under contracts 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent, for works under contracts costing less than 
$1,500,000 equivalent, for consulting firms’ services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants’ services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower (but the Bank may not so require if such 
expenditures are made under contracts covered by the provisions of Schedule 4, Section 
I, Part D.1 (a) of this Agreement).".
2.
Schedule 4, Section I, Part D.1 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  "With respect to:  (i) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part A.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts per calendar 
year for goods and the first two contracts per calendar year for works to be awarded 
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Part C.1 of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contracts required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.".
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date first above written upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Myrna L. Alexander
Director
Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  2
By: Roque Fernández
Date: February 20, 1998
