Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13968-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
MAY 18, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1994)
Currency Unit =  Yuan (Y)
$1.00           =  Y 8.70
Y 1.00          =  $0.115
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    =  15 mu
1 ton (t)         =  1,000 kg
=  2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
8-7 Plan - National Seven-Year Plan for       MCH  - Maternal and Child Health
Poverty Reduction (1994-2000)       MOA  - Ministry of Agriculture
ACWF  - All-China Women's Federation          MOF  - Ministry of Finance
ADBC   - Agricultural Development Bank of     MOL  - Ministry of Labor
China                               NCB   - National Competitive Bidding
BPREZ  - Beihai Poverty Reduction Enterprise  PADO - Provincial Poor Area Development
Zone                                         Office
CAS    - Chinese Academy of Sciences          PLG   - Project Leading Group
EPB     - Environmental Protection Bureau     PMO   - Project Management Office
ERR    - Economic Rate of Return              RCRD - Research Center for Rural
EU      - Environmental Assessment and                 Development
Monitoring Unit                     SOE   - Statement of Expenditures
FRR    - Financial Rate of Return             SPC   - State Planning Commission
IBRD    - International Bank for              SSB   - State Statistical Bureau
Reconstruction and Development      TAG   - Technical Advisory Group
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding   TVE   - Township and Village Enterprise
IDA     - International Development           WBPO - World Bank Project Office
Association
IMR    - Infant Mortality Rate
LGPR   - Leading Group for Poverty
Reduction



CHINA
SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:          Provincial and County Governments of Guangxi, Guizhou
and Yunnan; Beihai, Nanning and Fangcheng Municipalities;
and the Cental Government's Leading Group for Poverty
Reduction
Poverty:                Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                 Loan:  $47.5 million equivalent
Credit: SDR 128.6 million ($200 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Credit: IDA standard terms with 35 years' maturity.
Commitment Fee:         Loan:  0.75  percent on  undisbursed  loan  balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Credit: 0.50 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:        Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, onlent from the
Borrower through the provinces to the project
enterprises at interest rates no less than the
prevailing rates for Agricultural Development Bank
of China loans for similar purposes
Credit: 20 years, including 6 years of grace, at 2.00 percent
annual interest rate
Financing Plan:         See para. 3.44
Economic Rate of Return: 36 percent overall
Map:                    IBRD 26525
Project ]ID Number:     CN-PA-3639






CONTENIS
1   Absolute Poverty In China  ...........................                         1
A.  Introduction  .................................                            I
B.   Rural Absolute Poverty  ..........................                        1
C.  The Government's Poverty Reduction Program  ....           ........        5
D.  Origin of the Project ............................                         7
E.   Rationale for Bank Group Involvement .................                    8
F.   Bank Group Sector Work and Lending Operations ...          .......        8
G.  Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Group Operations          ......        9
2   The Project Area  .................................                           11
A.  Natural Resources, Land Use and Poverty ...............                   11
B.   Social Services ................................                         14
C.   Rural Infrastructure .............................                       16
D.  Labor Markets, Employment and TVE Development ...             .....       17
E.   Incidence of Poverty  ............................                       19
F.   Ethnic Minorities ..............................                         19
G.   Selection of Project Counties, Townships and Villages      .......       21
3   The Project .....................................                             23
A.  Objectives and Scope ............................                         23
B.   Description ..................................                           23
C.   Detailed Features ..............................                         25
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission in September 1994 and an
appraisal mission in December 1994, comprising Messrs./Mmes. A. Piazza, J. Goldberg,
P. Stott, J. Shi, M. Goldberg, E. Liang, M. Bi, R. Zweig (IBRD/IDA), C. Saint-Pierre,
R. Glencross, R. Yip, C.L. Cheong, E. Leman, K. Rippen, R. Weller, and L. Chen
(Consultants). Ms. C. Lucas participated in the preparation of the report in Washington.
Peer reviewers are E. Jimenez (PRDPH), J. Socknat (ASTHR), H. Ribe (AF6HR), and
H. Beemer (EA2HR). The preparation team gratefully acknowledges the strong support
of a Japan: Policy and Human Resources Development Fund grant, without which the
preparation of this complex and innovative project would have been extremely difficult.
The Task Manager is Alan Piazza, the Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg, and the
Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- ii -
D.  Status of Preparation ........ .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  35
E.  Implementation Schedule  ...........      ..     ............        36
F.   Project Costs and Financing ....... .  .  .    ......... .  .  .  .   .  36
G.  Procurement .......... .  .  ..    ............ .  .. .  .    .     37
H.  Disbursements ...... ...........            ...............         40
I.   Accounts and Audit .............      ..     ..............        41
J.   Environmental and Social Impact ........ ..        ..........      42
4  Project Organization and Management ...................                  44
A.  Project Organization and Management ....... ..        ........      44
B.  Financial Management ............       ..      .............        47
C.  Execution of Project Works ...........     ..     ...........       48
D.  Project Launch Workshop ...........       ..     ............       49
E.  Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting ....... ..      ........      49
5 Production and Markets .50
A. Production .50
B. Markets .52
C. Prices .53
6 Benerits and Risks    ..54
A. Benefits   ..54
B. Cost and Rent Recovery    ..55
C. Financial and Economic Analysis    ..55
D. Risks  ..57
7 Agreements Reached and Recommendation .58
ANNEXES
1. Project Area Statistics .61
2. Education Subcomponent .65
3. Health Subcomponent .81
4. Labor Mobility Component .95
5. Guangxi Municipal Employment Development Subcomponent                    117
6. Rural Infrastructure Component .143
7. Land and Farmer Development Component .152
8. Poverty Monitoring Component .166
9. Cost Estimates .176
10. Implementation Schedules .195
11. Disbursements .198
12. Financial and Economic Analysis .199



-1.1-
- mi -
13. Proposed Bank Group Supervision Input            ....................       218
14. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files ...   .....      223
15. Project Counties and Townships .........................                    225
CEAR¶S
Chart 1-Project Management Structure  ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  227
TABLEs IN TEXT
1.1 Rural Economic Growth and Incidence of Absolute Poverty ...       .....        2
1.2 Rural Economic Growth Rates ..........................                         5
2.1 1992 Rural Poverty Incidence, Income and Grain Production       .......       22
3.1 Project Cost Summary  ..............................                          37
3.2 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  .............                   38
3.3 Disbursement Arrangements ...........................                         41
5.1 Annual Production at Full Development ....................                    51
IBRD No. 26524: Project Counties and Municipalities
IBRD No. 26629: Guangxi Project Counties and Municipalities
IBRD No. 26525: Puding County (Guizhou) Project Areas






- 1 -
1. ABSOLUTE POVERTY IN CEINA
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1       China is widely recognized for its achievements in reducing absolute poverty
since the adoption of a broad program of rural economic reforms beginning in 1978. It
is estimated that, since that year, some 170 million Chinese escaped absolute poverty and
that the share of total population living in absolute poverty declined to less than 10 percent
by the middle of the 1980s. The form of poverty also changed over this period, from large
numbers of poor spread widely across the countryside to pockets of poverty in remote
resource-deficient areas. This change in the form of poverty required a change in the
govemment's approach to reducing poverty, and the Bank Group has been an active
participant in the design of the government's new national strategy for reducing absolute
poverty in the 1990s. As one of several means of operationalizing that new strategy, the
Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance in financing a poverty reduction
project in the poorest upland counties of the southwestern provinces of Guangxi, Guizhou
and Yunnan.
B. RURAL ABsoLuTE POVERTY
1.2       Background.  Rural economic reforms, including the adoption of the
production responsibility system, the dismantling of the commune system, agricultural
product price increases and market liberalization, were associated with dramatic rural
economic growth during 1978-85. The 1992 Bank Group study, China: Strategies for
Reducing Povery  in the 1990s (hereafter, Strategies),1/ concluded that broad
participation in that reform-driven rural economic growth brought about the tremendous
reduction in absolute poverty, from roughly 270 million poor in 1978 to about 100 million
in 1985, or from one third to about one tenth of the total rural population. Average rural
per capita income grew at an average annual rate of 13 percent in real terms during this
period, and increased a total of more than 140 percent. The gross value of agricultural
output increased by a total of 60 percent in real terms, at an average annual rate of
7 percent, or more than double the total growth and rate of the previous decade. Perhaps
most impressive was the increase in township and village enterprise (TVE) output and
employment levels. TVE output values appear to have increased fivefold in real terms
during 1978-85 (although part of this increase is explained by a broadening of the
definition of township and village enterprise beginning in 1984), and employment more
1/  The report, China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s (Washington, DC: World Bank,
Washington, D.C., 1992), is available to the public.



-2-
than doubled from 28 to 70 million jobs. These trends in rural economic growth and
absolute poverty are summarized in Table 1.1.
Table 1.1: RURAL ECONOMIC GRowT AND INCIDENCE OF ABSOLuTE POVERTY
1978      1985      1990      1993
Population (million)
Total                                  963      1,059     1,143      1,185
Rural                                  790        808       841       852
Incidence of Rural Absolute Poverty
Million people                         260         96        97        na
Percent of rural population             33         12        12        na
Average Real Per Capita Income
Rural (1978 Yuan) La                   134        324       348       391
Real Sectoral Output Values
Agriculture (1978=100)                 100        162       204       243
TVE (1978=100) Lb                      100       506      1,184     3,755
TVE Employment
Million people                          28        70         93       123
La Nominal rural average per capita income deflated by the rural retail consumer price
index.
ll Nominal TVE output value deflated by the implied deflator for gross industral output.
Source: Chinese Statistical Yearbook, 1994 and Strategies.
1.3       Correlates of Poverty. Absolute poverty in China is now concentrated in
resource-constrained remote upland areas. Since virtually all of China's rural population
received land use rights as part of the implementation of the production responsibility
system during the early 1980s, there are few if any landless laborers. Instead, the majority
of the rurl poor are now concentrated in resource-deficient areas, and comprise entire
communities located mostly in upland sections of the interior provinces of northern,
northwestern and southwestern China. Although these poor have land use rights, in most
cases the land itself is of such low quality that it is not possible to achieve subsistence
levels of crop production. Consequently, most poor consume grain and other subsistence
foods beyond their own production levels, and are negatively affected by price increases
for these products. The poorest households are typically those further disadvantaged by
high dependency ratios, ill health and other difficulties. Minority peoples are known to



-3-
represent a highly disproportionate share of the rural poor. Available evidence does not
suggest that women are greatly overrepresented among the poor, although poverty certainly
does exacerbate society-wide problems of lower rates of female participation in education,
higher relative female infant mortality rates, and higher rates of maternal mortality.
1.4       The educational and health status of China's remaining absolute poor are
deplorable. At least 50 percent of the boys in many of China's poorest towns and villages
and, particularly in some minority areas, nearly 100 percent of the girls do not attend
school and will not achieve literacy. The infant mortality rate and maternal mortality ratio
in very poor counties-which exceed 10 percent and 0.3 percent, respectively-are at least
50 to 100 percent greater than the national average, and are much greater yet in the poorest
townships and villages. Incidence of several infectious and endemic diseases, including
tuberculosis and iodine deficiency disorders, is concentrated in poor and remote areas.
Roughly 50 percent of children in households at or below the absolute poverty line are at
least mildly malnourished (stunted), and iron, vitamin A, and other micronutrient
deficiencies remain a severe problem among the poor. As many as 90 percent of poor
children suffer chronic worm infections.
1.5       Recent Trends. The incidence of rural absolute poverty does not appear to
have significantly declined during the second half of the 1980s.  A number of
macroeconomic developments stymied concerted government efforts to reduce poverty
during 1985-90: (a) sharply increased prices for grain and other subsistence goods
adversely affected the real incomes of the majority of the rural poor; (b) rapid growth of
the working age population exceeded the expansion of employment opportunities,
contributing to a temporary worsening of rural underemployment (during 1989-90);
(c) economic growth was greater in the higher-income coastal provinces than in the lower-
income inland northwestern and southwestern provinces; and (d) rural income levels
stagnated during the second half of the 1980s (the average annual growth rate of real per
capita rural income declined to only 1 percent during 1985-90). In addition, fiscal
decentralization passed an increasing share of the costs of rural social and relief services
to local governments. While successful in better-off areas, this fiscal reform put pressure
on the limited revenues of poor area governments. In the absence of adequate levels of
appropriately earmarked funding from higher levels of government, poor-area local
governments have been unable to support either adequate social services or economic
growth.
1.6       The key obstacle to reducing poverty during 1985-90, however, was the
absence of meaningful levels of agricultural growth and rural enterprise development in the
upland areas. Many of the rural poor in 1978 resided in less remote and less hilly areas,
where increased application of fertilizer, irrigation, better seed and other modern inputs
could bring about rapid productivity gains, and so were able to participate in the rapid
agricultural growth of 1978-84. However, the quick reductions of poverty through
agricultural growth were largely exhausted by end-1984. Most of the residual poor have
remained trapped in more remote upland areas where agricultural productivity gains have
proven far more problematic. Measured on a per capita basis, output of grain and
subsistence foods in such areas failed to sustain any significant increase during the 1980s.



Although the agriculture sector did expand in real terms during 1985-89, increased output
of nongrain crops and animal and aquatic products, products that few of the poor either
produce or consume in significant quantities, accounted for virtually all of the modest
growth that did occur. By comparison, the very strong annual growth during 1978-84 of
per capita production of grain and oilseeds-which are the subsistence crops of most
immediate importance to the poor-turned negative during 1985-89.
1.7        TVEs, an important source of employment in the rural economy as a whole,
have developed very slowly in poor areas. In the early 1980s, TVE employment actually
decreased in poor areas as the commune system was dismantled and workers could no
longer be paid in work points instead of cash. Employment rose only after a 1984 policy
initiative supporting private rural enterprise opened opportunities for small, family firms
particularly suited to the small market niches available in poor areas. However, by 1990,
only 4 percent of the rural labor force in China's 120 poorest counties had found
employment in rural enterprises, in contrast to the 22 percent finding such employment in
the nation as a whole. Restraints on labor mobility were relaxed during the 1980s,
enabling an increasing number of the rural poor to share in national TVE growth by
migrating to employment opportunities where they occur. Unfortunately, after tremendous
growth during 1978-88, TVE employment declined in 1989 and 1990 in response to the
government's strong deflationary measures implemented in those two years. It is believed
that the absolute poor were among the first to lose their jobs during the temporary decline
in TVE employment.
1.8        Current Status. Official government estimates indicate that the number of
absolute poor has declined to about 80 million, or less than 7 percent of the total
population, during the early 1990s. Although an independent estimate of the current
number of absolute poor has not been undertaken, extraordinarily strong overall economic
growth, coupled with a resurgence of rural income growth and TVE employment during
1990-93, would certainly have been consistent with a substantial decline in absolute
poverty.l/ As shown in Table 1.2, the growth rate of real rural income recovered from
only 1 percent during 1985-90 to 4 percent during 1990-93. TVE employment, having
declined in 1989 and 1990, also increased sharply during 1991-93, expanding by 10 million
jobs each year. Grain production also increased strongly during 1990-93, leading to a
temporary decline in the market price of grain, with consequential benefits for the absolute
poor. However, while it appears that the incidence of absolute poverty did decline during
1990-93, it should be noted that (a) market grain prices recovered beginning in late 1993;
2/  Strategies estimated the incidence of absolute poverty for each year 1978 and 1980-90. Unfortunately,
changes in the State Statistical Bureau's (SSB) calculation of mral income beginning in 1991 do not
allow for a simple extension of the methodologies employed in Strategies To estimate the incidence of
absolute poverty in 1991-93. Instead, the Bank Group's Policy Research Department (Poverty and
Human Resources Division; PRDPH) has initiated work with SSB to establish an updated methodology
for estimating poverty in the 1990s. Initial results of the PRDPH and SSB work suggests that the "head
count' incidence of absolute poverty may have declined slightly during 1990-92, but there was a
significant worsening of the severity of remaining poverty during those same years (i.e., the poverty
gap increased).



- 5 -
(b) there was a definite worsening of the distribution of rural income during 1990-92; and
(c) there was a slight increase in the number of the extremely poor during 1990-92.3/
Table 1.2: RuRAL ECONOMIC GROwTH RATES
Average Per Capita      Agricultural       Incremental Annual
Period           Rural Income          Output Value        TVE Employment
1978-85              13%                  7%                  6.0 million jobs
1985-90               1%                  5%                  4.6 million jobs
1990-93               4%                  6%                 10.0 million jobs
Source: Table 1.1.
C. TE GOVEaNmErr'S POVERTY REDuCTION PROGRAM
1.9       Institutions. The Chinese government has a strong commitment to poverty
reduction, and most government ministries and agencies have special poverty reduction
responsibilities and projects. The Ministry of Civil Affairs provides disaster relief and
income maintenance support, and coordinates the distribution of relief grain through the
Ministry of Domestic Trade's Grain Bureau system. The State Education Commission and
the Ministry of Public Health administer some special programs to improve the education
and health status of the poor. The newly established Agricultural Development Bank of
China offers subsidized loans for poor-area development through a variety of funds
administered by provincial bank branches and their networks of county and lower-level
banks (until mid-1994, these funds were administered by the Agricultural Bank of China
and several other banks). The State Planning Commission administers a Food-for-Work
Program, which assists with the building of roads and riverine transport, drinldng water
systems, irrigation works and other capital construction in poor areas. In addition, each
of 27 central ministries and agencies has its own special poor-area project and every
province has its own specially-funded programs.
1.10      The State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction (LGPR) was
established in 1986, in part to provide greater coherence to these many poverty reduction
initiatives and, in particular, to expedite economic development in the poor areas. Since
its establishment, LGPR and its executive agency, the Poor Area Development Office
(PADO), have emerged as the principal advocates of China's rural poor and are now the
I/  Official SSB data show that the proportion of nul households with avego nominal per capita inomes
of lows than 150 yuan (which is le thn half the government's official absolute poverty line) increasd
from 0.73 percent in 1990 to 0.83 pewcent in 1992.



- 6 -
key agencies responsible for coordinating the nation's $1 billion in annual funding for
poverty reduction programs. The State Council funds another three poverty reduction units
that operate within the LGPR orbit: the China Development Foundation for Poor Areas,
the Cadre Training Center, and the Economic Development Service Center. Provinces,
prefectures, and counties have all established Leading Groups and PADOs after the central
model, and many townships have a "designated person" to handle poverty reduction work.
1.11      Strategy. While continuing preexisting rural social and relief services, the
poverty reduction strategy adopted during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) introduced
a new emphasis on economic development programs in the poor areas. The Government's
commitment to sustained efforts to eradicate poverty also figured prominently in the Eighth
Five-Year Plan (1991-95). During the Eighth Five-Year Plan period, the Government
reconfirmed and extended LGPR's central role as the coordinating body responsible for
poverty measurement and research, project planning and monitoring, and management not
only of domestic funding but also of bilateral and multilateral assistance for poverty
reduction. The poverty reduction strategy announced in the Eighth Five-Year Plan
highlighted (a) a continued emphasis on developing the productive capacity of poor-area
agriculture and rural enterprise through subsidized loans, (b) better targeting of assistance
to reach the poorest of the poor, and (c) improved management and coordination of
poverty reduction activities.
1.12      The government's poverty reduction strategy has been further defined and
substantially updated through the newly issued National Seven-Year (1994-2000) Plan for
Poverty Reduction (8-7 Plan). The 8-7 Plan recognizes that the significant reduction and
change in nature of absolute poverty (para. 1.1) makes it more practical and fiscally less
burdensome to target increased development and social services assistance to China's
remaining absolute poor. In near complete agreement with Strategies' recommendations
for reducing poverty in the 1990s, the 8-7 Plan calls for:
(a)  institution building and policy reform, including a strengthening of the
institutions responsible for implementing explicit poverty reduction projects
and programs, the establishment of an independent and objective poverty
monitoring system, the concentration of available funding in the poorest
counties (a number of relatively well-off counties and provinces will be
"graduated" from the new poverty reduction program), and improved access
of the poor to employment opportunities outside the poor areas;
(b)  greater investment in the development of human capital, including more
central government funding for health, nutrition, education, and relief services
in the poorest areas; and
(c)  continued investment in poor-area agricultural, rural enterprise, road and other
rural infrastructure development projects.
1.13      Ofricially Designated Poor Counties. In 1986, using Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) county-level rural income data, LGPR developed a national roster of 331 poor



- 7 -
counties eligible for development assistance. A county was identified as poor if its 1985
average rural per capita income fell below poverty lines of Y 300, Y 200, or Y 150,
depending on other locational or political factors. Average per capita grain production of
less than 200 kg was also adopted as a second key indicator of poverty. In addition to the
national roster, 368 provincially designated poor counties, eligible for provincial funding,
were selected on the basis of poverty lines determined by the provinces. Province-specific
poverty lines used during the Seventh Five-Year Plan period ranged from Y 150 in Yunnan
to Y 400 in Jiangsu. In addition to drawing up a roster of poor counties, most provinces
have identified townships in otherwise well-off counties as eligible for special assistance.
As evidenced by the wide difference in qualifying income levels (Y 150 to Y 400), the
provincial rosters include a number of counties that are relatively poor by provincial
standards but that would not qualify as absolutely poor by the national minimum standard.
That provinces created their own special programs testifies to a concern with relative
poverty and, in many instances, to provincial budgetary strength. On the other hand, the
provincial roster does, in some cases, compensate for the incorrect exclusion of counties
with average per capita income levels below the national minimum standard. The Yunnan
provincial roster, for example, includes all the counties that should have received central
government support for absolute poverty reduction (that is, 15 counties with average per
capita income of between Y 120 to Y 150 in 1985).
1.14       While a very large proportion of the rural population within the officially
designated poor counties must have been poor, this definition of poverty failed to capture
the poor in otherwise well-off counties.A/  Based solely on 1985 income data,
furthermore, the method did not adequately correct for single-year aberrations in county
rural income levels. Strategies has also observed that the regionalization of poverty
evidenced by the MOA county-level rural income data is significantly different from that
indicated by the State Statistical Bureau's (SSB) provincial rural income distribution data.
Notwithstanding these important issues, it is certain that the combined list of officially
designated poor counties captures the core of remaining absolute poverty in China.
Furthermore, under the new 8-7 Plan, the list of officially designated poor counties has
been reduced from 699 to 592, and a number of relatively well-off counties and provinces
will be 'graduated" from the new poverty reduction program (para. 1.12).
D. ORIGIN OF TE PROJEcr
1.15       Through the preparation  of Strategies and its public release at the
"International Conference on Poverty Issues in China" (held in Beijing in October 1992),
close collaboration with the Chinese government has been established and the Bank Group
has played an active role in the development of the new national strategy for reducing
absolute poverty in the 1990s (para. 1.12). At the conclusion of the conference, State
4/  Based on three-year (1981-83) average township-level runl per capita income data, the Research Center
for Rural Development (RCRD) had earlier identified 50 million absolute poor residing in about 7,000
townships, situated in 225 counties in 11 mountainous regions. While a preferred means of monitoring
poverty, the RCRD township-level mothodology was not an operationally viable mechanism for
targeting China's poverty reduction progrm. In 1986 LGPR switched to the county level for the
purposes of poverty reduction programs and monitoring.



- 8 -
Councilor Chen Junsheng (the Govemment of China's senior policymaker for agriculture,
rural development, and poverty reduction) and senior Bank Group staff announced the
proposal to operationalize Strategies' recommendations for reducing poverty in the 1990s
through a Bank Group-assisted project to reduce poverty in southwestern China. It was
decided at that time that the project would take a multisectoral approach to reducing
absolute poverty in the worst-affected upland areas of Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan.
Consistent with one of the principal themes of the conference, it was also agreed that the
project would encourage community participation during preparation and implementation
and that all interested international agencies, both official and nongovemmental, would be
invited to participate in project preparation, funding and implementation. Supported by
a generous Japan: Policy and Human Resources Development Fund grant, project
preparation included local and international consultants and five missions to China during
July 1993 to December 1994.
E. RATIONALE FOR BANK GROUP INVOLvENMWr
1.16      The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy in that it directly
addresses two of the Bank Group's top operational priorities in China, namely poverty
reduction and environmental protection. Bank Group participation in the project will
greatly assist the realization of the government's 8-7 Plan and it is expected that, if
successful, the project will become a prototype for extension to the remainder of China's
poor areas and the overall poverty reduction program. Bank Group involvement in the
project will also play a catalytic function in the establishment of an independent national-
level poverty monitoring system. In addition, Bank Group participation is helping to focus
the project's rural development component toward the development and provision of an
integrated package of environmentally sound andfarmer-determined technologies for more
productive upland agriculture.
F. BANK GROUP SECrOR WORK AND LENDING OPERAnoNS
1.17      During the early and mid-1980s, the first Country Economic Report and the
Gansu Provincial Study devoted much analysis to China's income distribution and the
physical well-being of the Chinese population and the poor.5/ A number of Bank Group-
supported projects during these years, including the Gansu Provincial Development Project
(Loan 2812-CHA and Credit 1793-CHA) and the Northern Irrigation Project (Credit 1885-
CHA), directly helped reduce poverty by providing opportunities for voluntary resettlement
to newly irrigated areas for hundreds of thousands of absolute poor residing in rainfed
upland areas of the Loess Plateau. The Gansu Provincial Development Project also
included a very effective rural education subproject that targeted the absolute poor. More
generally, the Bank Group's program of agricultural investments (about 40 projects in all),
buttressed by projects supporting agricultural education, rural health care and rural water
supply, played a significant role in raising rural incomes and living standards during the
1980s.
S/  China. Long-Tenn Development Issue and Options (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press,
1985) and China: Growth andDevelopment in Gansu ProvInce (Washington, DC: World Bank, 1988).



- 9 -
1.18      Completion of Strategies contributed to making poverty reduction a more
explicit focus of Bank Group lending in China in the early 1990s. Bank Group-supported
poverty reduction activities, channeled to areas of concentrated poverty in central and
western China, now include poor-area health, education, rural water supply and hygiene,
and numerous agricultural projects and agricultural project subcomponents. The Rural
Health Workers Development Project (Credit 2539-CHA) aims at better-quality health
services, improved health status, and the development of new financing models for health
services in the poorest areas. The Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Project
(Credit 2655-CHA) addresses the malnutrition, epidemic disease and high maternal and
infant mortality rates that remain widespread among China's absolute poor. The Infectious
Diseases Project (Credit 2317-CHA) seeks to reduce the incidence and risk of infection of
two severe diseases that are most prevalent in poor areas. The Education Development in
Poor Provinces (Credit 2339-CHA) and Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas
(Credit 2651 -CHA) projects are helping to improve primary and lower-secondary education
and schools in poor counties and villages. By increasing coverage of safe water supply and
sanitation, health and hygiene services, the Rural Water and Sanitation Project (Credit
2336-CHA) improves health and productivity of some of the poorest and most needy
inhabitants of rural China. The Loess Plateau Watershed Rehabilitation Project (Credit
2616-CHA) seeks to double real income levels for the 1.2 million rural poor in the targeted
watersheds by increasing agricultural productivity. The Shaanxi Agricultural Development
(Credit 1997-CHA), Henan Agricultural Development (Credit 2242-CHA), Tarim Basin
(Credit 2294), Guangdong Agricultural Development (Credit 2307-CHA) and Sichuan
Agricultural Development (Credit 2411-CHA) projects include poverty reduction
subprojects in several extremely poor counties. Attacking poverty through single-sector
programs, these projects and project components have made a real and sustainable
contribution to poverty reduction. However, no Bank Group-supported project in China
has as yet used a focused, multisectoral rural development approach to attack absolute
poverty in a severely resource-deficient area where single-sector programs cannot achieve
sustained poverty reduction.
G. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PiEVIOuS BANK GROUP OPERAToNS
1.19      The Bank Group's experience with a large number of multisectoral rural-
development-cum-poverty-reduction projects has not been entirely successful in terms of
impact or sustainability. An extensive OED review of two decades of Bank Group
experience with rural development projects documents that the complexity of project design
and implementation and problems with institutional coordination have been the principal
causes of mixed results.&/ This confirms the warning of the Bank Group's 1975 Rural
Development Sector Policy Paper that such projects tend to suffer from a program design
that is too ambitious and complex, calling for exceptional leadership that cannot always be
made available on a sustained basis. Recognizing that these institutional difficulties are
inherent to multisectoral projects, the OED analysis favors the approach of 'implementing
separate project components in different ministries as though they were separate projects,
6/  World Bank Epence with Rural Dewlopment, 1965-1986 (World Bank, 1987).



- 10-
but with a coordinating unit located in a nonsector ministry such as Planning or the
President's Office' and emphasizes the importance of long-term institution building. The
OED report also highlights the importance of (a) strong government commitment to the
project and a favorable macroeconomic cnvironment, (b) relying primarily on locally
proven technical innovations (the results of research and trials were often not available in
time to have an impact on concurrent projects), (c) retaining flexibility in program design
during implementation (i.e., after the time of appraisal), and (d) supplementing the Bank
Group's own inputs, during design and supervision, to cover the full range of skills
required by a multisectoral project. A more recent OED review of the Aga Khan Rural
Support Program (AKRSP), on the other hand, concludes that 'rural development can be
made to work' with proper project design and implementation.2/ Additional key lessons
from the successful AKRSP experience are the importance of (e) a comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation process and (f) full community participation.
1.20      Project design and plans for organization and management have carefully taken
these lessons into consideration. Most importantly, LGPR, which is an interministerial
office of the State Council, will be responsible for coordinating project design and, through
the provincial and county Project Management Offices (PMOs) and Leading Groups (LGs),
monitoring implementation. During the course of project preparation, LGPR's World
Bank Project Office (WBPO) was established with Bureau-level status and approved for
30 professional-level staff positions. The county PMOs, in close collaboration with the
sectoral bureaus and agencies, would be responsible for the actual implementation of the
project. This approach, in a somewhat simpler form, has been validated in previous Bank
Group projects in China.S/ In addition, the project enjoys strong government support
and a favorable macroeconomic environment, relies primarily on an integrated package of
proven technologies, and would establish a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
process. It is believed that current Bank Group procedures provide adequate allowance for
changes to project design during the course of implementation. Lastly, the project
encourages community participation by enabling households to make key decisions during
project design and implementation.
2/ lhe Aga Khan Rural Supporr PNogran in Pakistan (World Bank, 1990).
1/  Simlar organizational structures were established under the Pishibng-Chaohu Agricultuwal
Development Project (Cr. 1606-CHA, Ln. 2579-CHA) and Red Soils Agncultural Development Project
(Cr. 1733-CHA).



- 11 -
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. NATuRAL REsouRcEs, LAND USE AND POVERTY
2.1       Location. The project would take place in 35 mountainous and remote poor
counties of Yunnan (10 counties), Guizhou (13) and Guangxi (12). These counties, which
are all nationally designated poor counties under the 8-7 Plan (para. 1.14), stretch over
700 kilometers (km) from northeast Yunnan on the southern bank of the Yangtze River to
the northwest corner of Guangxi bordering Viet Nam. The project counties in Guangxi
and Guizhou are located along the axis of the new Nanning-to-Kunming rail line (now
scheduled for completion in 1996), and should benefit from this major improvement to
transport capacity. In contrast, there is no rail link passing through northeast Yunnan, and
transport to and from the project counties in the Zhaotong Prefecture region is expected
to remain constrained. The project villages have a farm population of 635,000 households
and cover an area of some 22,000 km2. The project area is shown in the map Project
Counties (IBRD No. 26524) and summary project area statistics are given in Annex 1.
2.2       Poverty and Environmental Destruction. Livelihood systems in the project
area are based on subsistence farming, with only intermittent access to very small amounts
of cash from both agricultural and off-farm origin. The project villages form pockets of
rural poverty subject to an unfavorable natural resource base and long distances to markets
and services. It is not coincidental that the project-area poor reside in a region of
mounting environmental degradation-these poor have little alternative but to extract their
meager livelihood on some of the nation's least productive but most ecologicaUy fragile
lands. The poor are both the perpetrators of upland environmental destruction, abetted by
sometimes adverse government policy, and the victims of that destruction in that it further
diminishes agricultural potential.
Land Use and Poverty
2.3       The low-elevation karst ranges of southwest Guizhou and northwest Guangxi
make up the southern half of the project area. The Yunnan-Guizhou karst plateau, actuaUy
a rugged mountainous region with elevations from 1,500 meters (m) in Guizhou to
2,300 m in Yunnan, comprises the northern half of the project area. Both regions face
similar severe environmental constraints: (a) only a small portion of the total land area is
suitable for crop production; (b) the hydrological regime, together with elevation, restricts
paddy and double-cropping and has hampered previous attempts to intensify corn
production; and (c) the large remaining land area is ineffectively utilized and heavily
degraded.



- 12 -
2.4       Flat Land. In the karst ranges, the cultivated flat land is typically restricted
to 1 to 5 hectare (ha) patches located in "sink holes" between karst peaks, and accounts
for only 5 percent of the total land area. The available flat land in the project area
amounts to only 0.06 ha per capita, or about half the national average of 0.1 ha per capita.
The highly uneven hydrological regime of these sink holes precludes paddy cultivation, and
often restricts cropping patterns to one crop of corn, followed by a marginal crop that is
exposed to flooding hazards. A much greater proportion, about 20 percent, of the total
land area of the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau is cultivated. Although one tenth of a hectare
is available per capita on the plateau, the distinctly cold climate, in combination with a
prolonged dry season (extending late into spring), allows only one crop of corn in most
upland poor villages. Fields located above 2,100 m of elevation are planted to potatoes
and buckwheat. Some paddy is grown in valleys below 1,500 m of elevation, but it is
often at least partly rainfed. (Detailed data on climate, soils and agricultural land use are
presented in Annex ).
2.5       Sloped Land. Steep rocky slopes with a degraded vegetative cover comprise
at least three quarters of the project total land area. These sloped lands are officially
considered to be forest land (about 50 percent), pasture (about 30 percent) and "wasteland"
(the remaining 20 percent of sloped land). However, actual forest cover is found mostly
in a limited number of government-backed reforestation areas that comprise less than
20 percent of the area considered to be forest land. Half of the pasture land, located on
open karst, has very low potential. Unused or unallocated land is officially classified as
"wasteland," and is severely affected by unsustainable land use practices.
2.6       Environmental Destruction. The absence of secure land tenure rights has
been identified as a major cause of environmental degradation of the sloped lands in the
project area. Marked environmental degradation is ongoing in better-off villages, where
farmers are extending cash crops on erodible slopes, and uncontrolled animal numbers
result in extensive and highly visible overgrazing. Poorer villages have seen a clear
decline in their agricultural resource base during the last several decades. Unbalanced
farming practices have depleted karst soils from their originally fairly high ferility levels,
and recovery from the heavy deforestation of the Great Leap Forward period (1958-59)
will be a lengthy process that has only recently begun. Large tracts of terraces built on
erodible soils are now in disrepair and, following decollectivization in the early 1980s,
water conservancy facilities in the project area have not always been adequately
maintained.
2.7       Previous policies of restricted out-migration, in combination with an increasing
population, have resulted in locally heavy population pressure, particularly on the Yunnan-
Guizhou plateau. The population density reaches a maximum of 270 people per km2 at the
meeting point between Yunnan and Sichuan provinces. Most of the fragile wasteland in
this region is in fact already planted to food crops, contributing to extensive soil erosion
and frequent landslides.
2.8       Agricultural Support Services.  Chemical fertilizers, including urea and
phosphate, are widely available in project townships. However, availability of seeds,



- 13 -
seedlings and animal production services is still limited. There are supply problems for
seed for the principal crop, corn, and marketing channels for seeds of secondary food
crops, including potato, have only recently been set up. Most tree crop nurseries only
support government-backed planting programs, and acceptable-quality livestock breeds and
reliable veterinary services are not usually available outside of county seats and better-off
townships.
2.9       The agricultural extension service does not have the financial resources and
qualified staff that would be needed to address the diverse physical and human environment
in mountain areas. Programs typically take the form of campaigns to promote the use of
subsidized agricultural inputs, and no formal credit is available to many households for
farming activities. In the absence of a national research program on karst and mountain
environments in southwest China, the only technology package available for extension is
plastic sheeting for hybrid corn.
2.10      Grain Availability and Cash Income.  Nonhybrid varieties, with yields
averaging only about 2 tons per ha, occupy 60 to 95 percent of project counties' corn area.
Consistent with these low yields and the limited cultivated area per capita, more than half
the population in the project villages produced less than 150 kg of grain per capita during
1991-93. Between 10 to 50 kg per capita of relief grain are brought into the project
counties annually, but these quantities are not sufficient to raise per capita grain availability
to the 200 kg per capita minimum necessary for basic subsistence. The consequential
widespread moderate to severe malnutrition has been a chronic problem in the project areas
since population growth rates, although steadily decreasing, have more than offset the
modest increases in grain production over the last decade.
2.11      More than 80 percent of project households live below the poverty line of
Y 320. In five of the eight project counties in northeast Yunnan, average rural per capita
net income is less than Y 160. Since most income is in kind and consumed on-farm, entire
households typically have cash incomes of only Y 150 to Y 300 ($15 to $35) per year.
Sources of cash income, apart from irregular off-farm activities such as local coal mining
and labor mobility to urban areas, mainly consist of occasional animal sales and collection
of forest products. Households with very limited land area, with high dependency ratios
or impoverished by medical fees for family illness, or with no farm animals left, have
incomes far less than these average figures.
Upland Agricultural Development Potential
2.12      Despite their unfavorable natural resource base, there is promise for increasing
the agricultural productivity of the project upland poor. There is some potential for the
rehabilitation of natural resources and the prevention of their further degradation. The
national strategy for rural poverty reduction has recently shifted from the singular objective
of reaching grain self-sufficiency in favor of increasing income-earning capacity through
improved, diversified farming systems with animal husbandry, cash crops, particularly tree
crops, and off-farm income. Market opportunities for these various alternative activities



- 14 -
are now reaching the project area. Perhaps most importantly, it should now be possible
to improve farmers' land use rights for sloped land and particularly wastelands (para. 2.5).
2.13      Corn-based farming systems can, to some degree, be intensified.  With
carefully applied research, it should be possible to develop hybrid corn varieties that better
suit upland farmers' consumption tastes. Where coal on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau and
fuelwood in the karst ranges are available to be used as fuel, corn stalks can be processed
for use as animal feed. At the same time, low-cost improved technologies should be
developed for a varied range of other food crops. Integrated with increased animal and
tree crop production, these several technologies would markedly improve income levels
and nutritional status.
2.14      In addition, throughout the project area, there are numerous localized
opportunities with considerable agricultural development potential. In the karst ranges, for
example, 25 percent of the area is made up of gently sloped limestone hills bearing red
earths, which are suitable to paddy terraces and to orchard and tea development. In
northeast Yunnan, the deep valleys of the Yangtze River system face an arid climate, but
the less remote valleys have potential for developing tropical products once drinking water
and irrigation facilities have been rehabilitated or expanded. Appropriate investment in
these opportunities should be balanced with support for improved and diversified poor-
household farming systems.
B. SociAL SERVICEs
2.15      Education. Despite impressive gains in educational attainment on a national
level, the educational status in the project areas is abysmally low. Official figures indicate
that while in China primary school enrollment is on average 98 percent, in project areas
only 60 percent of the 7-15 age cohort have ever enrolled in primary school. Of these
children, about 65 percent are boys. As with enrollment rates, completion rates vary
considerably. While the national average for primary school completion is about
82 percent, completion in project townships (which include project areas and better-off
nonproject administrative villages) can be as low as 45 percent. Furthermore, SSB survey
data covering the poorest households in the project areas (para. 3.39) suggest that among
the 13-15 age cohort, only 20 percent of the boys and 5 percent of the girls graduated from
primary school. In addition, minorities, more so than nonminorities, experience lower
educational attainment. Given the above, it is no surprise that many do not achieve
literacy (para. 1.4).
2.16      Low educational status among those in the project areas reflects the reality that
access to primary education for the poor is quite limited and those services that exist suffer
in terms of quality. While the central government provides financial transfers to the poor
areas of China, these resources are not adequate to meet all primary education needs, and
financing of education is mainly the responsibility of local governments and communities.
As part of their cost-recovery process, these local entities have required that families pay
for children to attend school. Although this fee is modest (about $5 per school year), it
represents nearly 25 percent of average rural per capita income in the poorest areas,



- 15 -
thereby hindering access of many children to school. In addition, parents often have to
pay boarding and transportation for children in grades six and above. This, combined with
the perceived opportunity cost of forgone household labor, greatly decreases access to
primary education, especially for females. Limited funds have also resulted in a lack of
primary school places and dilapidated school buildings.
2.17       Along with insufficient access, the delivery of primary education suffers from
inadequate teacher training, insufficient books and instructional equipment, and poor
management. Preservice and inservice training courses in China focus on teaching subject
matter and methods appropriate for large urban schools, but few courses are offered for
teachers on the methods and techniques required for small and ethnically mixed rural
schools. There is little practice in multigrade or multisubject teaching techniques, or in
bilingual education. In addition, on average, most of these teachers are lower-secondary
school graduates and some did not even graduate from primary school. Thus, a portion
of the teachers in poor rural areas do not have the basic academic background to acquire
adequate teaching skills.
2.18      Health. As with education, while China has made tremendous progress in
enhancing the health of its population, improvements have been uneven and have occurred
primarily in urban areas. Infant mortality, maternal mortality, and nutritional status are
far worse in project areas compared to the national average and better-off areas (para. 1.4).
The poor health status of those in the project areas stems from a combination of limited
access to health services and the low quality of services provided.
2.19       In the context of insufficient levels of govemment support combined with
severe poverty, access to health care in the project areas is hindered by the fee-for-service
provision of most health services, the dilapidated and insufficient number of health clinics,
an inadequate quantity and flow of pharmaceuticals and supplies. SSB survey data indicate
that approximately 90 percent of the poorest in project areas cannot afford to pay for
medical services. Almost half of the project villages do not have a health post, so villagers
must travel on average at least 4 km to reach a health facility. The village health clinics
and township hospitals that exist are invariably dilapidated. Furthermore, often health
facilities do not have an adequate stock of pharmaceuticals and lack essential equipment
to provide even the basics of health care.
2.20      The quality of the health services that reach the poor population greatly suffers
because of inadequate training on the part of providers, insufficient monetary incentives
to provide quality care, and poor planning and management. The care practices and skills
of health staff at all, but particularly at lower levels, is problematic. Salaries for health
workers are insufficient, resulting in low retention rates and workers splitting their time
between health tasks and other income-earning activities. Furthermore, reliable data on
mortality, morbidity, and nutritional status that are important in designing and evaluating
health and nutrition interventions are lacking.
2.21       The Benefits of Targeting Social Services to the Poor. The benefits of
targeting education and health interventions to the poor are well known. Basic investments



- 16 -
in human resources are key ingredients for effective poverty reduction. Thes investments
complement one another-a healthy and well-fed child learns more in school. They also
enhance a person's ability to be productive and to earn income. Fortunately, relatively
modest and well-targeted investments in human resources have proven to be very effective
in increasing literacy and wages in the case of education and in decreasing health outcomes
such as morbidity and mortality.
C. RURAL INDFRASUC1URE
2.22      The government's Food-for-Work Program (para. 1.9) has provided a total of
Y 10 billion during 1984-93 for the construction of roads, water supply facilities, and other
infrastructure in China's poor areas. Achievements have been significant: since the late
1980s, 1,500 townships have been linked to the network of rural roads; about 56 million
of the rural poor have been served with basic water supply systems; and over 1 million ha
of land have been rehabilitated through soil and water conservation works and served with
irrigation facilities. However, some 1,700 townships and 17,000 administrative villages
have yet to be served with rural roads, and there remain some 50 million inhabitants in the
poor regions without access to potable water. About 13 percent of rural households have
yet to be served with even some rudimentary form of electricity supply. The remaining
unserviced areas include the very poorest regions. Extending infrastructure coverage to
these areas will be more challenging, both technically and financially, because of the
remoteness of these thinly populated villages located in difficult, mountainous terrain.
2.23      Despite the success of the Food-for-Work Program, the environmental
degradation and lack of rural infrastructure in the poorest villages of southwest China make
living conditions harsh and arduous. Inhabitants in these regions often have to cover long
distances by foot and labor through steep terrain to reach the nearest source of drinking
water, and even there the water source may be contaminated or contain high levels of
fluoride. The nearest dirt roads are reached only after some kilometers of steep climb and
descent by jungle tracks, and considerable labor is expended by villagers in bringing their
small amounts of agricultural and forest products to the nearest farmers' market. Lack of
access to basic facilities such as water supply, roads, electricity and telecommunications
constitutes a severe constraint to the increased productivity and improved well-being of the
poorest communities in these remote villages.
2.24      Paved roads reach all project county towns and dirt roads reach almost all
project townships, but only 60 percent of all administrative villages in project townships
(and a much smaller percentage of project villages themselves) have any road access. The
rehabilitation and expansion of water systems is particularly urgent in the Guangxi and
Guizhou project counties where more than half of project villages face seasonal drinking
water shortages and a very small proportion of cultivated land is irrigated. Roughly half
the project administrative villages have access to electricity, and about one quarter to
telephone networks.



- 17 -
D. LABOR MARKS, EMLoYMENT AND TVE DEvELoPMENT
2.25      Labor Markets. Rural underemployment is a major challenge for the Chinese
government, and agricultural job creation, which is expected to increase only marginally
in the 1990s (less than 1 percent per year at best), cannot solve the problem. The
difficulty is worst in the upland counties of Guangxi, Guizhou, Yunnan and other western
provinces, where there are large pools of surplus laborers. Project data indicate that more
than one third of the rural population in the project areas are chronically underemployed
(i.e., classified as "surplus workers").
2.26      A profile of the underemployed in project areas has identified a large pool of
potentially productive workers, provided they are offered rudimentary training. At least
half of these underemployed are illiterate or have only completed primary school
education. Three quarters of the underemployed in the project area are between the ages
of 16 to 35, and nearly half are ethnic minority people who speak local dialects.
2.27      TVE Development. The TVE sector has been one of the most dynamic
elements of the economic boom in China over the past 15 years. TVEs are a promising
source of employment for the rural underemployed (paras. 1.7 and 1.8). Nationally, TVE
sales revenues amounted to Y 474 billion in the first quarter of 1994, a real increase of
more than 50 percent over the comparable period in 1993. TVE employment has
continued to expand, providing jobs to more than 123 million workers, or some 28 percent
of the national rural labor force, in 1993.
2.28      Although TVE development in China's central and western regions was weak
during the early 1980s, there has been surprisingly strong TVE growth in these regions in
the more recent past, with increases in output value of 50 and 70 percent, respectively.
Buoyed by rapid TVE growth in Guangxi's coastal, municipal and eastern areas, TVE
employment increased sharply from 11 percent of Guangxi's rural labor force to more than
19 percent in 1993. Although TVE employment continues to represent a relatively low
share of the total rural labor force in Guizhou and Yunnan, viz., about 9 percent, or just
one third of the 1993 national average, such employment has grown rapidly in recent
years.
2.29      Despite very rapid growth at the provincial level, significant barriers remain
that block the development of agroprocessing, mineral processing, handicraft and other
industries in the poor upland project areas. Project county TVE and Labor Bureau staff
attribute the lack of TVE development to the lack of investment credit and working capital
and poorly developed infrastructure. While TVE managers may be attracted by relatively
low wage costs and the availability of agricultural and mineral raw materials, these
advantages are often not sufficient to overcome the lack of financing, roads, reliable
electricity supply and other basic requirements.
2.30      While the development of new railroad links and improved rural roads are
promising developments for future TVE investment, upland counties with high
concentrations of absolute poor could continue to be overlooked. The production and



- 18 -
employment potential of these counties is illustrated by TVE development in Puding
County (Guizhou). Recently established labor-intensive TVEs include carpet weaving and
embroidery, and together these types of TVEs should be able to create a substantial
number of jobs over the next three years. These TVEs have begun to experiment with
innovative business practices such as "satellite factories," which would create home-based
jobs in project areas. Despite large numbers of orders for their products, these ventures
have been unable to attract sufficient investment credit or working capital. Other TVEs
throughout the project area, such as marble factories and fruit processing plants, have
significant job creation potential but remain underfunded.
2.31      Labor Mobility. Local TVEs cannot create sufficient numbers of jobs for the
large number of rural surplus laborers in upland counties, and many unemployed people
turn to labor mobility as an alternative. However, poor households in upland counties
suffer from serious labor-market barriers that raise the risks of labor mobility and lower
the returns. Faced with limited local employment opportunities and little information about
jobs in distant markets, tens of thousands of surplus laborers from upland households use
informal labor mobility channels to find work. Households report having to liquidate
assets or take on additional debt from local sources to finance frequently unsuccessful job
searches. There are a few traditional village networks with urban connections to provide
support to migrants, such as those available to surplus laborers from Sichuan and Zhejiang
provinces, but these are not yet well developed in most of the project counties.
2.32      Existing government-organized channels have not been focused on helping the
millions of underemployed upland migrants eager to find jobs in urban markets. Until
recently, the priority of provincial labor bureaus has instead been the redeployment of
unemployed workers from state-owned enterprises in urban areas. Both spontaneous and
government-organized channels now exist, but Ministry of Labor officials believe that the
largest share of migrants from poor upland households use the riskier spontaneous
channels. The Yunnan Provincial Labor Bureau, for example, organized the migration of
48,000 rural workers in 1993, but estimates that an additional 300,000 people left their
place of origin without assistance. The Guizhou Provincial Labor Bureau found jobs for
60,000 people in 1992, mostly in the toy, fireworks and electronics factories and service
industries of Guangdong. An additional 220,000 reportedly used spontaneous channels,
with many heading for the highly competitive and rapidly growing urban labor markets in
Shanghai and Guangzhou.
2.33      One reason for large-scale spontaneous labor mobility is that wage rate
differences between poor rural areas and prosperous urban and rural areas have grown,
from a 300 percent difference in 1982 to about 600 percent at present. The large wage
rate gap holds the promise of large remittances as a source of cash income for upland poor
households and the local economy. The Ministry of Labor estimated that 37 million rural
migrants in 23 large cities remitted Y 75 billion to their families. Per capita remittances
of Y 2,000 are far greater than per capita income for poor households in upland counties
(viz., Y 320 or less), and would alone be more than sufficient to achieve the 8-7 Plan
target for per capita income (of Y 500 in 1992 constant yuan) for such families. The
Guizhou Labor Bureau reported remittances of more than Y 2 billion, sent by 800,000



- 19 -
women and 200,000 men outside the province. In some cases, the remittances exceed the
county govemment's own annual revenues. Village interviews revealed that, even without
remittances from migrants, the upland household benefits significantly from just the
decreased demand on its meager food supply.
2.34      The potential gains from labor mobility hide significant risks that present
special challenges to indigenous peoples and women from upland areas, and for their urban
destinations. Rural workers migrating through spontaneous channels often work in coal
mines, construction sites and assembly lines and are increasingly vulnerable to illness,
accidents, sexual abuse and other forms of exploitation. The number of fires and other
on-site accidents in China has increased markedly in recent years, and in 1993 more than
2,400 people died, thousands more were injured and there was $130 million in property
damage from reported fires and accidents. Growing urban labor markets in the Yangtze
and Pearl River Deltas and southem Guangxi need large numbers of low-skill labor for
new and expanding plants. However, the presence of millions of migrants has increased
the already severe strains on urban housing, water, sewer, communications, transportation
and other services in these areas. While they recognize the economic benefits of migrant
workers, municipal authorities in many cities are concerned with the risk of large and
expanding slums in urban and peri-urban areas.
E. INCIDENCE OF POVERTY
2.35      Poverty Monitoring. An independent and effective poverty monitoring system
is vital in obtaining an accurate identification of the poor, in analyzing the accuracy of
targeting benefits, and in assessing the impact of poverty reduction activities.
Unfortunately, much work has yet to be done to establish reliable and comprehensive
estimates of poverty. Strategies found that, depending on the data source for per capita
income, estimates of poverty incidence at the provincial level can vary as much as
50 percent. While SSB administers a comprehensive rural household survey that gathers
data on provincial averages, it does not provide information at the county level-an
absolute necessity in identifying the poor and for evaluating changes in poverty. It also
does not include sufficient information on important correlates of poverty such as
household expenditures, education, health, labor mobility and credit experience. While
other sources of data exist that could augment information obtained through the SSB rural
household survey, some of that information is not collected on a systematic basis and very
little data exist on the characteristics of the bottom 5 to 10 percent of the income
distribution.
F. EThNc MnoRmr
2.36      Chinese law recognizes 55 ethnic minority groups with a total population of
about 91 million in 1990, of which about three quarters (69 million) resided in autonomous
counties, prefectures or regions. The autonomous areas have special governance features,
including requirements for minority representation in the local People's Congress and in
the local government administration. In addition, they are given special taxation and other
rights. Regardless of where they live, minority people may have other special privileges,



- 20 -
such as exemption from family-size limits. As is true of all rural Chinese, minority people
have clear rights to, and effective control over, their lands and associated natural
resources.
2.37      The complex set of historical forces that traditionally marginalized China's
ethnic minorities economically have not been fully overcome by 45 years of development.
Thus, although minority people comprise less than one tenth of the total population, they
are estimated to represent between 40 and 50 percent of the number of absolute poor.
Some 257 of the 592 8-7 Plan poor counties (para. 1.14), furthermore, are minority
autonomous counties. Minority groups, including the Miao, Yao, Buyi, Zhuang and
others, represent just over one third of the population of Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan,
and comprise half the total number of project beneficiaries. In Guizhou, the population
of some project-area karst townships is composed of 60 percent Buyi households. Minority
people comprise 90 percent or more of the beneficiary population in most project
townships in Guangxi.
2.38      Geographical location and the resulting economic barriers are two of the most
important reasons for a high incidence of minority households among the absolute poor in
project areas. The lack of rural roads as well as cultural and language differences also
limit interaction with growing sectors of the economy. Marginal land, rapid deforestation
and rapid population growth combine to limit productivity and per capita income. The
process of agricultural innovation has favored areas with more flat land and adequate
irrigation, low-cost transportation, and better-developed markets, and has developed
technologies that do not fit the unique circumstances faced by the absolute poor and upland
people.
2.39      Long-term prospects are not favorable for most of the more than 1.4 million
project-area minority people. With inadequate bilingual education opportunities, and
school fees that limit access to schools in many cases, educational attainment can be very
limited. Market information gaps also restrict the household's ability to take advantage of
local and distant off-farm opportunities.
2.40      To ensure appropriate design of component activities, a process of detailed
consultation was conducted in upland communities involving village leaders, a sample of
the poorest households, village teachers, health practitioners and other members of the
community, with special attention paid to minority people. During project development,
an independent field investigation in Guangxi and Guizhou by a cultural anthropologist led
to suggestions regarding health, education and labor mobility component design and
implementation, and these were incorporated into specific component activities. NGO
(viz., Ford Foundation in Beijing and CARE Australia) staff also participated in project
preparation missions and advised on community and minority people's informed
participation in project design and implementation. Senior staff, from the national,
provincial and local levels, of the State Nationalities Affairs Commission have also
participated in project preparation and are included in the provincial and local project
leading groups (PLGs).



- 21 -
2.41      Mechanisms have been designed to permit ongoing participation of minority
households in project areas and, since 80 percent of pilot villages comprise minority
groups, unexpected adverse impacts on minority households and villages would be detected
during the early stages of project implementation and addressed in a participatory way with
the communities. A village labor-mobility management committee would be established
to develop (a) transparent candidate selection criteria that ensure equal access to
employment opportunities to minority people, and (b) procedures that orient households
in the local language to the voluntary nature, benefits and risks of participation in labor-
mobility activities. Interviews with minority households confirmed that labor-mobility
candidates would prefer to be placed in self-selecting groups and share dormitory rooms
(Annex 4). For the social services component, strategies and a monitoring plan have been
developed to ensure that activities promote participation of minority people, including
bilingual primary school education and bilingual training of teachers (Annex 2, paras. 13,
26 and 27). The health subcomponent would serve to supplement well-established
traditional medicine practices in the project area. Minority people would have equal access
to all technical assistance, resources, services and infrastructure provided under other
project components.
G. SELECIlON OF PROJECr CoUNTIES, TowNsEps AND VILLAGES
2.42      Counties. About 25 million, or nearly one third, of China's remaining
absolute poor reside in the remote upland areas of Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan. The
149 poor counties in these three provinces also comprise one quarter of the nationally
designated 8-7 Plan poor counties (para. 1.14). The 35 project counties are among the
poorest of the 8-7 Plan counties, with average rural per capita income levels ranging
between Y 160 to Y 310 and per capita grain production averaging about 200 to 220 kg
per capita. The contrasts between poverty incidence, income levels and grain production
for the project counties and the averages for the Guangxi Autonomous Region and China
are shown in Table 2.1. The incidence of rural poverty in the Guangxi project counties
is three times the provincial average and about six times the national average. Average
rural per capita income and grain production in the project counties are also substantially
less than the provincial and national averages.
2.43      Townships and Villages. The project area consists of 290 townships and
1,798 administrative villages, and comprises the poorest half of the townships in the 35
project counties and the poorer half of the administrative villages in the 290 project
townships. Principal criteria for the selection of project townships and administrative
villages were per capita income levels and grain production (below average) and the
proportion of indigenous peoples (above average). As illustrated in the maps Guangxi
Project Counties and Municipalities (IBRD No. 26629) and Puding County (Guizhou)
Project Areas (IBRD No. 26525), an effort was also made to select townships and
administrative villages in contiguous project-area blocks in order to improve ease of project
implementation. (All natural villages in the project administrative villages are included in
the project.)



- 22 -
Table 2.1: 1992 RuRAL POVERTY INCiDENCE, INCOME AND GRAN PRODUCION
Incidence of     Rural Per   Grain Production
Rural Poverty    Capita Income   (kg per rural
(percent)     (1992 Yuan)    inhabitant)
National Average            less than 10%        784             522
Guangxi Average                 18.4%            732            380
Guangxi Project Counties        60.2%            312             198
Guangxi Project Townships       78.4%            270             176
Source: Chinese Statistical Yearbook, 1994 and project data.
2.44      The exclusion of half of the townships and three quarters of the administrative
villages in the project counties allowed for the targeting of adequate levels of investment
to the poorest villages with the greatest number of indigenous peoples. As shown in Table
2.1, nearly four fifths of the rural population in the Guangxi project townships are
absolutely poor-considerably more than the proportion (three fifths) for the Guangxi
counties. Average rural per capita income and grain production in the Guangxi project
townships are also substantially less than the provincial and national averages. In Puding
County (Guizhou), project data show that 1992 per capita agricultural output value was
20 percent greater in nonproject townships (Y 330) than in the project townships (Y 274).
Per capita grain production was 12 percent greater, and the structure of grain production
included far more preferred grain (i.e., wheat and rice), in Puding's nonproject townships
than in the project townships.



- 23 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. OBJECTvES AND SCOPE
3.1       The principal objectives of the project are to: (a) demonstrate the effectiveness
of a focused, multisectoral rural development project approach to poverty reduction, (b)
facilitate a "market-friendly" increase in labor mobility from the poor areas to better-off
rural and rapidly growing urban areas, (c) upgrade poverty monitoring at the national and
local levels, and (d) significantly reduce absolute poverty in 35 of the very poorest counties
in southwestern China.  The project would also stabilize or even reverse upland
environmental destruction through land and pasture improvement and soil conservation
works, and encourage greater local community participation by enabling households to
make key decisions during project design and implementation.
3.2       At present, the LGPR system at the central, provincial and local levels
(a) administers a large program of official development assistance (grants, credit and
standard loans) through the national banking system and (b) coordinates a very wide variety
of special poor-area projects and specially funded programs supported by each of 27
central ministries and agencies (para. 1.9). These existing poverty reduction programs
include nearly all sectors and known approaches to poverty reduction. However, the
various approaches have rarely been integrated at the local level, and the effectiveness of
an integrated multisectoral package of poverty reduction initiatives has certainly never been
tested on a large scale in the very poorest upland areas of China. Though much smaller
in scale and more limited in content than the proposed project, a small number of
integrated multisectoral rural development projects have been supported in China by
several international agencies including UNDP, IFAD, WFP and FAO. The successful
implementation and favorable impact of these smaller projects suggests that the proposed
project's integrated multisectoral approach will, particularly for the most severely affected
resource-deficient areas, prove far more effective in achieving a sustainable reduction of
China's remaining absolute poverty than have most existing unintegrated poverty reduction
programs. It is therefore expected that the Bank Group-supported project will become the
prototype for extension to the majority of China's other poor areas and to the overall
poverty reduction program.
B. DESCRIPION
3.3       The project would comprise the following six components:
(a)  social services, including (i) increasing the access and quality of primary
education provided to the poor through facilities construction, tuition
payments, teacher and management training, and the provision of textbooks



- 24 -
and instructional equipment; and (ii) enhancing the availability and delivery
of primary and curative health care to the poor through health clinic and
township hospital renovation and construction, the establishment of a village
health cooperative fund, the strengthening of public health programs in disease
prevention and control and maternal and child health, and enhancing the
management capabilities of health administrators at the county and provincial
level;
(b)  labor mobility, through a voluntary system of enhanced rural labor mobility
for the upland absolute poor, supported by skill training through an enterprise
reimbursement system, a computerized demand-driven job placement system
emphasizing local markets, monitoring of worker safety and living conditions,
and reporting of abuses and grievances;
(c)  rural infrastructure, including the labor-intensive construction of rural roads,
safe drinking water supply systems, small-scale irrigation, agricultural
drainage works, biogas digesters, and rural electrification;
(d)  land and farmer development, using menus of crop and livestock activities
to increase upland agricultural productivity and reverse the trend of
environmental degradation through (i) extension of improved agriculture and
smallholder livestock management techniques and inputs, (ii) establishment of
tree crop nurseries and provision of saplings and tree crop management
extension (for high-altitude and red-soil varieties), (iii) intensification of staple
crop production on the modest amount of available flat land, (iv) terracing for
improved water and soil conservation, and (v) the support of provincial and
regional research;
(e)  TVE development, through support for TVEs consisting of investment credit
for labor-intensive, commercially viable agroprocessing, mineral, service and
handicraft industries that have strong backward linkages to poor households
and meet environmental safeguards; and,
(f)  institution building and poverty monitoring, through (i) improving LGPR
and PADOs' capabilities in project design and implementation, procurement,
accounting, and monitoring and evaluation; and (ii) establishing an objective
poverty monitoring system for the project areas by using improved SSB survey
instruments to provide a credible and comprehensive poverty profile, analyze
the accuracy of the targeting of benefits to the absolute poor, and measure and
evaluate the impact of the project's individual components.
The project would also directly link the economies of the project upland counties with
China's fast-growing coastal zones. For this purpose and in support of the labor mobility
component, the IBRD loan of $47.5 million would assist urban and agricultural
development activities in Beihai, Nanning and Fangcheng (Guangxi Province). Aided by
the IBRD loan, the three cities would provide at least 37,000 full-time and 17,000 seasonal



- 25 -
job opportunities (over a six-year period) for the absolute poor from the project's upland
areas.
C. DETrAnFD FEATURES
Social Services
3.4       The project would facilitate the development of locally funded and managed
education and health systems for the absolute poor at the village level. The education and
health subcomponents concentrate investment in village-level basic infrastructure,
q   upgrading the quality and reliability of services, and the development of mechanisms to
ensure access to social services by the absolute poor. Both the education and health
subcomponents include mechanisms to ensure sustainability, and would completely phase
out project funding for tuition assistance, nutrition supplementation and medical assistance
by the final year of project implementation (see Annex 9, Table 10).
3.5        Education Subcomponent.  The project would address low educational
attainment among those in project areas by enhancing the delivery of primary education
to the poor. This would occur through (a) primary school renovation and construction,
(b) supporting tuition assistance and nutritional supplements for poor students, (c) the
provision of textbooks, instructional equipment and furniture, and (d) teacher and
management training. The government has recently established the national target of
universal nine-year primary education by the year 2000.  Therefore, due to the
disproportionately low levels of female enrollment and retention (para. 1.4) in the project
area, the project by definition strongly favors girls' education.
3.6        To increase access to primary education for the poor, approximately 2,400
teaching points, along with 320 center schools,l/ would be rehabilitated or constructed
and assistance in the form of beds, sheets, and cookware for 16,600 students per year
would be supported. Furthermore, because building schools does not guarantee higher
enrollment and retention rates, and in response to prohibitive school fees, the project would
provide tuition assistance equaling 60 to 100 percent of fees for 540,000 student years, or
on average, for 90,000 students per year of the project. To ensure sustainability, the
number of students receiving project tuition assistance and nutrition supplementation would
decrease during project implementation. As an additional incentive for children to attend
school and in order to enhance their ability to learn, the project would support an in-school
supplementary nutrition program to avert increased malnutrition during the interharvest
season (March to May) for 205,000 student per season or, on average, for 34,167 students
per year. To ensure proper targeting, teachers and village leaders would play a lead role
in the selection of students to benefit from tuition and nutrition assistance. The project
would also provide salaries to support 2,170 new teachers in the rural areas. To encourage
1/  A teaching point is defined as a one-room school with a teacher who teaches multiple grades or subjects
at the same time. A center school typically consists of six to eight classrooms, student and teacher
dormitories, and a physical education area.



- 26 -
the education of girls, a special effort would be made, over both the short and long term,
to attract qualified female teachers who could serve as role models.
3.7       To enhance the quality of primary education, approximately 12,000 teachers
would be provided with (a) full-time qualification training, (b) inservice qualification
training through correspondence education, and (c) brief periods of intensive subject-
specific inservice training (such as teaching skills necessary for multigrades and
multisubjects). In order to significantly enhance the delivery of primary education in
minority areas, approximately 3,450 teachers would be trained in bilingual teaching
methods. Training in school and educational system management would also be given to
approximately 2,800 primary school principals and educational administrators.
Furthermore, the project would equip primary schools with 900,000 library books, 2,000
sets of instructional equipment, and about 200,000 sets of tables and chairs. To enhance
project management, 13 sets of computers and printers would be provided. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that arrangements acceptable to the Bank Group would be
made for financing, on a grant basis, the annual tuition fees for approximately 90,(000
primary school children per year, selected on the basis of criteria acceptable to the Bank
Group.
3.8       Health Subcomponent. The project would strengthen the health network by
increasing the accessibility and enhancing the quality of health services provided to the
poor at the village and township level. This would occur primarily through facility
construction and renovation, the establishment of a cooperative health fund, training of
health personnel, strengthening of public health programs in disease prevention and control
and maternal and child health (MCH), and enhancing the management capabilities of health
administrators at the county and provincial level (Annex 31.
3.9       At the village level, the health system would be improved to more effectively
and efficiently deliver primary health care to the poor. To increase access to primary care,
the project, during its first 18 months, would either upgrade existing health clinics or
construct new ones. The project would also establish a village cooperative health fund to
provide sustainable access to basic preventive medicine and supplies. The fund would
consist of approximately Y 6 (in 1995 yuan) per capita and would be composed of annual
contributions and monies obtained through the discounted sale (equaling approximately
30 percent of cost) of pharmaceuticals (Annex 3!. Throughout the project life, the project
contribution to the fund would decrease and the community contribution would increase.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that cooperative health-care funds would be
established and thereafter maintained and adequatety funded in all project villages. To
enhance the quality of services provided, a standard set of essential equipment would be
supplied to 1,700 village health clinics. Furthermore, about 1,750 village health aides
would be trained in the delivery of primary health care in activities such as the prevention
and management of communicable diseases, health education, and support and supervision
of birth attendants. A monthly salary increment of Y 65 to Y 80 would be provided to
those village health aides who receive training; if the health aide performs according to
standard, a bonus equaling 20 percent of annual salary would be given. Training would



- 27 -
also be provided to about 3,500 birth attendants in pregnancy case management and
delivery.
3.10      The health network at the township level would be strengthened to not only
provide preventive but also affordable curative health care to the poor. Access to health
services at the township level would be enhanced through expanding and improving
approximately 300 township hospitals and by subsidizing some medical services provided
to the poor. Both access and quality would be improved by (a) providing a basic set of
equipment to about 300 township hospitals, and (b) training and providing monetary
incentives to two to five existing township health workers at each hospital to undertake
preventive-care activities.
3.11      The project would also include assistance for both the disease prevention and
control and MCH programs that span village and township levels. The disease prevention
and control program would be strengthened to include (a) an effective disease surveillance
system that would systematize birth, death, and communicable disease reporting, and
(b) activities to ensure safe drinking water such as the chemical treatment and periodic
assessment of water sources. In addition, vaccines and medication would be provided for
the control of typhoid fever, tuberculosis, and neonatal tetanus. The project would assist
the MCH program by providing (a) monetary incentives to health workers and to mothers
for undertaking appropriate prenatal care and delivery practices and (b) financing to offset
the cost of complicated pregnancies that require referral to township and county hospitals.
In addition, under the MCH program, the project would develop a routine monitoring
system for childhood nutritional status.
3.12      Finally, the project would address deficiencies in health network management
at the county and provincial level through providing training to health administrators in
overall health network management, disease monitoring and control, and nutrition
surveillance. Approximately 210 persons will be trained at the county and 20 at the
provincial level.
Enhanced Rural Labor Mobility
3.13      The project would establish a voluntary labor mobility system to provide
employment to about 343,000 upland surplus laborers over six years, and provide an
important testing ground for assisting the organized flow of rural laborers into China's fast-
growing cities. Project activities build on existing institutional arrangements and systems
of the provincial Labor Bureaus, with adjustments to target upland-poor surplus laborers.
The four elements of the labor mobility system are: (a) village orientation, (b) on-the-job
training by enterprises on a cost-reimbursement basis, (c) job placement, and
(d) monitoring worker rights, job safety and living conditions. County Labor Bureaus
would target project-area poor households with the most surplus labor. Incentives and
emphasis on local job placement would encourage county Labor Bureaus to provide a
representative share of job opportunities to ethnic minorities and women. (See Annex 4
for indicative provincial and sectoral job targets.)



- 28 -
3.14      Special care would be taken to minimize the risks inherent to labor mobility.
Safety records and work conditions of joint ventures with fewer than 100 employees would
be reviewed before workers are placed, since these enterprises have the most frequently
reported cases of worker abuse and accidents (para. 2.34). The provincial and county
offices of the All-China Women's Federation (ACWF) would provide the project's female
migrant laborers with a special orientation on the risks of labor mobility, including sexual
exploitation. A monitoring system focusing on fair treatment of workers and workplace
safety has been designed, based on provincial and county Labor Bureau experiences.
LGPR, provincial Labor Bureaus and ACWF would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation activities. Indicators would include: (a) wage and remittance levels, (b) job
safety records, (c) dormitory conditions, (d) conditions faced by women and ethnic
minority workers, (e) resolution of labor disputes involving migrants, (f) cost per job
created, (g) contract completion rates, and (h) cost recovery rates. To the greatest extent
possible, women and ethnic minorities would be placed in jobs in project counties in order
to facilitate monitoring. A comprehensive monitoring and reporting system is (a) currently
being tested in the pilot phase (para. 3.17), and (b) carefully documented in WBPO's
Labor Mobility Feasibility Study Report (November 1994). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) labor mobility would be strictly voluntary and undertaken only on the
basis of consultation procedures and relocation arrangements acceptable to the Bank
Group; (b) a monitoring and reporting system satisfactory to the Bank Group, focusing on
fair treatment of workers and workplace safety, would be finalized and implemented at the
county, provincial and national levels no later than September 15, 1995; and
(c) commencing September 15, 1995, LGPR would prepare and submit a detailed labor
mobility component monitoring report to the Bank Group by March 15 and September 15
of each year.
3.15      Cost recovery through payroll deductions and remittances would contribute to
a sustainable labor mobility system. The project would conduct village visits to ensure that
these mechanisms do not cause undue hardship on upland households. Provincial and
county Labor Bureaus estimate that costs will range from Y 700 per job for local
placement to Y 2,000 for distant markets with slightly greater skill training requirements
(see Annex 4, Table 4). Fixed-cost investments amount to only Y 100 per migrant for the
first six years.
3.16      The project would establish a computerized management information system
to match surplus laborers with job opportunities. This information system would enable
a new business-oriented joint entity (para. 4.5), consisting of LGPR and the Ministry of
Labor (MOL), to spearhead labor migration from the poor project counties to fast-growing,
highly competitive markets such as Shanghai and Guangzhou. County Labor Bureaus and
TVE Bureaus would ensure that TVEs supported by the project would hire low-skill
workers through the labor mobility system. The joint entity formed by LGPR and MOL
would manage a central labor mobility component fund of Y 111 million to (a) establish
a job placement system for interprovincial labor mobility and (b) provide county Labor
Bureau staff training. LGPR would propose policy and regulatory changes to facilitate the
safe transfer of upland surplus laborers to established enterprises. These may include tax
holidays, other fiscal incentives, and a guaranteed share of work permits in large labor



- 29 -
markets. Effective legal sanctions would also be suggested for cases of worker abuse,
building on recently strengthened national labor regulations and increased numbers of
Labor Bureau monitoring staff.
3.17      A one-year pilot phase would allow the project to test labor mobility strategies
in local, provincial and distant markets before large-scale operations are undertaken. The
project would evaluate the use of groups, alternative remittance channels to ensure the safe
transfer of remittances, payroll deductions to cover costs, and the effectiveness of
monitoring techniques and remedies. The pilot phase would also permit the project to
incorporate findings from labor mobility research supported by MOL and the Ford
Foundation (see Annex 4!.
3.18      Guangxi Municipal Employment Development Subcomponent. A $47.5
million IBRD loan for urban and agricultural development activities in Beihai, Nanning and
Fangcheng (Guangxi Province) would support the labor mobility component (see Annex 5!.
A poverty-reduction enterprise development zone for labor-intensive industries,
unsubsidized low-cost housing schemes (slum improvement and dormitory construction for
migrant workers), mariculture, agriculture, and fast-growing tree plantations would be
supported by the subcomponent. As part of the municipal development effort, enterprises
would provide at least 37,000 full-time and 17,000 seasonal jobs in labor-intensive
industries, suburban forestry plantations, orchards and vegetable production bases, urban
infrastructure construction and other activities over a six-year period to the absolute poor
from the project's upland areas. (The 37,000 full-time positions are included in the overall
labor mobility component target of 343,000 positions.) Subcomponent activities would be
evaluated on the basis of cost per job created, income and remittance levels, and cost
recovery, and would not be related in any way to resettlement or relocation programs.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that participating project enterprises would be
eligible for financing under the project only upon agreement with Beihai, Nanning or
Fangcheng municipality that the enterprise would adopt a business development plan
providing that at least 70 percent of the full-time jobs created in those enterprises would
be reserved for the absolute poor from the project's upland counties.
3.19      The subcomponent's two most innovative activities are the Beihai Poverty
Reduction Enterprise Zone (BPREZ) and low-cost housing in Nanning and Fangcheng.
BPREZ would provide serviced land or factory building space under preleasing agreements
for about 40 firms and create permanent employment for 8,000 migrant workers.
Incentives would be offered to small- and medium-size, nonpolluting, labor-intensive
enterprises. Based on a preliminary review, these are likely to be in the garment, food
processing and component manufacturing sectors.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) Beihai Municipality would undertake a program of site and building
sales and leases for BPREZ satisfactory to the Bank Group, and (b) funding would be made
available only against expenditures for buildings that would be rented or sold when
acceptable prelease or presale agreements, as appropriate, have been concluded with
respect to at least 50 percent of the floor space of the building concerned. In Nanning,
low-income dormitory housing would be provided on a vacant 4.3 ha site in Beihu District
for 29,000 single migrant workers, while Fangcheng would provide housing for 17,500
migrants on a 3.5 ha site. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the low-income



- 30 -
housing provided under the project would be (a) designed and constructed according to
criteria satisfactory to the Bank Group, and (b) exclusively rented for a period not less
than 10 years following completion to migrant workers from poor areas, of which not less
than 70 percent would be workers from the project counties in Guangxi.
Rural Infrastructure
3.20      The project would support the construction of rural roads, water supply
systems, small-scale irrigation, agricultural drainage, soil conservation works, biogas
digesters and small-scale rural electrification (see Annex 6).
3.21      Roads and Water Supply. The project would construct about 1,600 km of
class IV and lower-grade gravel roads in order to link 565 villages in remote mountainous
areas to the existing network of county roads. Roads would have a minimum formation
width of 4.5 m and a 3.5-m-wide carriageway designed for 10-ton vehicular loading.
Low-cost water supply facilities would be provided to 663,000 people in 990 villages.
Facilities would include piped systems with public hydrants, rain collectors, and water
storages to sustain supply up to 100 days in the dry seasons. Systems would be designed
to supply 25 to 40 liters per capita per day and would meet current water quality standards
for rural water supply in China.
3.22      Power. The project would also address the power needs of project areas by
increasing access to electricity and altemative forms of energy. To meet the power
required for agroprocessing, other light industry and mining, 197 km of 35 kV and 675 km
of 10 kV transmission lines and associated transformers and equipment, as well as two
minihydro plants would be installed. About 2,400 biogas digesters for cooking and
lighting would be provided to decrease dependence on scarce fuelwood. The project would
also provide some 2,840 improved stoves, which could reduce household fuelwood
consumption by up to 50 percent.
3.23      Soil Conservation, Irrigation and Drainage.  The project would also
construct and improve soil conservation, irrigation and drainage works for 15,600 ha of
existing and new rice paddy and upland crops. Irrigation improvement would include the
upgrading of the Fengguo Reservoir in Yunnan Province through increasing the storage
capacity of the existing reservoir, constructing 3 km of trunk tunnel canal and completing
the canal system, and terracing of land to be brought under irrigation. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that any dams improved under the project exceeding 10 m in
height or 2.5 million cubic meters in storage volume would be subject to dam safety
review. All dams rehabilitated or constructed under the project would subsequently be
maintained and inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practices,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Land and Farmer Development
3.24      The objective of the land and farmer development component is to create a
substantial and sustainable increase in the agricultural incomes of the more than 600,000



- 31 -
households in the project area. This would be achieved through the development of
improved integrated land use systems including environmentally sound and farmer-
determined technologies for food, cash and tree crops, household animal husbandry
activities, land development, and aquaculture, and through increased access to agricultural
extension and inputs such as seeds. The project would support (a) the establishment of a
wide range of tree crops that would provide cash income over the long term while helping
to control soil erosion, (b) household animal husbandry that would be a source of cash
income in the near term (and supply organic fertilizer), and (c) land development and
improved food production as a means of increasing household food supplies and cash
incomes. Agricultural development activities supported and monitored by the project will
be integrated into comprehensive village-development schemes. Technologies would be
selected in order to maintain low levels of economic and production risks for farmers.
Households would select activities from a menu of agricultural investment options, and
would be expected to diversify into at least two agricultural activities. Investments would
cover the initial two to five years before the first marketable crop is harvested. An upper
limit in the investment per household has been established to allow equitable access to
project benefits.
3.25      Tree Crops and Forestry. Most project households would take part in the
development of some 35 species of perennial crops on 56,100 ha of steeply sloped
"wastelands. " These wastelands are at present either under degraded vegetation cover or
planted with very low-yield corn. One fourth of this area would be planted to nut trees
and one fourth to tree and bush species, which are adapted to shallow karst soils or to
higher elevations, such as Eucommia, bamboo or Sichuan pepper. Low-elevation red-soil
hills would be planted to tea and fruit trees. In addition, some 4,700 ha of mulberry and
10,100 ha of annual cash crops, one third of it being medicinal plants, would gradually
replace corn on lower-yielding fields. Some 11,200 ha of timber plantations and 8,200 ha
of regenerative fuelwood forest in karst villages would also be developed. (A complete
list of species names, related products and areas is provided in Annex 7.) It is believed
that long-term tenure rights are essential to the improved and more sustainable utilization
of wastelands, and that those lands should be contracted to poor area farmers free of
charge. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that project farmers would receive use
rights for a term of not less than 50 years for the wastelands and other lands they plant
to perennial crops under the project.
3.26      Most plantations would be village production bases, 1 to 5 ha in size, under
individual contracts with project households.  Technical assistance for production
technology, transport and marketing would be provided by the extension service or by fruit
companies to farmers joining bases, as well as to farmers planting a small number of trees
in their home gardens. Densities and fertilizer application rates would be selected in order
to ensure the quality and longevity of tree crop production. Technical support, including
selection of varieties, plantation design and soil analysis, would be provided by province
and county specialists. The project would establish a sustainable network of nurseries,
including a central nursery set up in each project county and village nurseries managed by
specialized farmers.



- 32 -
3.27      Animal Husbandry. The project would also assist some 300,000 households
to develop animal breeding and fattening activities including 88,000 cattle, 230,000 goats,
100,000 pigs and 640,000 chickens. The southern half of the project area would focus on
goats. On-farm fodder production would be developed to provide 70 percent of the
requirements of incremental animal numbers in Guangxi, and 35 percent in Yunnan and
Guizhou. This fodder production would be based on local trees interplanted with food
crops, on a range of both local and introduced forage species intercropped with newly
planted orchards, and on 2,900 ha of upgraded pasture in Yunnan. Some 79,000
households would build ammoniated straw tanks for feeding corn stalks to cattle and goats.
Part of the corn stalk and other crop residues would be processed into feed by 200 small
electrical milling machines in administrative villages. A few counties would expand their
ongoing pond and cage fish culture activities in order to include project households.
3.28      Food Crops. Land development, using farmers' own labor, would comprise
the rehabilitation of some 4,200 ha of terraces. The terracing of upland areas in Yunnan
would be combined with small water tanks to allow supplementary irrigation during the
spring drought. A package including fertilizers and seeds would be provided during the
first year of village project activities to improve corn production on 41,300 ha, and potato
seed would be supplied for 2,300 ha in Yunnan. Some county seed companies would be
upgraded in order to supply quality seeds adapted to farmers' needs and taste preferences.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that project farmers would receive exclusive
land use rights for a term of not less than 30 years for existing cropland they develop or
improve under the project.
3.29      Extension and Training. A total of 3,600 farmers would form an expanded
network of demonstration households with 180 ha of demonstration fields on their farms.
These households would be trained as farmer-technicians specializing in tree crops or
animal husbandry. A representative number of new demonstration households would be
minority people and women farmers. In addition, 320,000 farmers would attend an
average of four days of technical and management training. The project would also
provide 290 small pickups to enable technicians to increase their visits to project villages
and demonstration households and to facilitate transportation of input supplies. About
1,200 township technicians would join annual five-day training sessions in county extension
centers, and 350 county-level technicians would be trained in the counties or in provincial
capitals. The project would also assist the provincial research institutes to initiate on-farm
research. This research work would help identify farmers' needs in land use improvement
in karst and high-elevation areas, and would design specific low-cost technologies. The
project would encourage the transfer of these technologies through revised county extension
plans.
TVE Development
3.30      TVEs are a cost-effective means of creating stable jobs for unskilled workers
and spurring economic development in small towns and rural areas. All TVE investments
provisionally accepted for inclusion in this project were proposed, and are sponsored by,
local governments in the project provinces, counties, townships, and villages. They were
subjected to five selection criteria to maximize benefits to the poor: (a) cost per job



- 33 -
created, (b) commercial feasibility, (c) worker safety and environmental risks, (d) skills
training, and (e) backward linkages to poor households. Selected TVEs would add
significant local value to existing and planned agriculture and mineral production.
Commercial feasibility has been analyzed by reviewing trends in demand and prices in
local, regional and national markets. Proposed TVEs that did not meet the five criteria
and were eliminated included a blast furnace, lead processing, sulfur and nitrate mines and
cement plants. About one third of the proposals were rejected, and another third were
modified during preparation. Inevitable replacement proposals would be subjected to the
same criteria and process during project implementation.
3.31      TVE Portfolio Composition.  The TVE component would support 209
enterprises, amounting to a total investment of Y 478 million. The component would
support expansion or creation of 95 agroprocessing firms, 26 mining operations,
8 companies providing services, and 4 handicraft manufacturers, creating 29,500 low-skill
jobs in local towns. Agroprocessing activities include silk reeling, forest products, tea,
fruits and a wide range of local food and medicinal products. The average TVE
investment would be Y 2.2 million, and would provide employment for 140 upland
migrants, at a cost of Y 25,500 ($3,000) per job. Women would make up at least
80 percent of the labor force in some sectors, such as carpet weaving, embroidery and fruit
processing.
3.32      Seventy-six farmers' markets would be established to provide poor farmers in
project areas with affordable access to inputs and profitable outlets for products. These
represent a total investment of about Y 30 million, at a unit cost of Y 390,000. The
location of farmers' markets would be linked to rural road construction. Each province
has selected three farmers' markets for the one-year pilot phase, which would be evaluated
based on the following: (a) access to affordable inputs by poor households, (b) market
prices for products made by poor farmers, and (c) market occupancy rates and financial
sustainability. Based on an evaluation of the nine pilot farmers' markets, adjustments
would be made to the design, number and location of the remaining markets in latter years
of the project.
3.33      Backward Linkages. TVEs would be integrated to agricultural activities
supported by the project. This strategy ensures that economic gains from value-added
processing would support the local economy and absorb surplus labor. It also guarantees
a local market for crops such as longan and silkworm cocoons. Since backward linkages
offer significant benefits, a key indicator of TVE success would be the share of raw
materials provided by farmers from project areas.
3.34      Worker Safety and Environmental Risks. All TVEs would meet existing
national environmental standards for water, soil, and air quality and noise pollution. The
TVE feasibility studies include assessment of environmental risks and risk-abatement
precautions. The studies have been reviewed by the provincial and county Environmental
Protection Bureaus (EPBs), which must approve new and expanded TVE facilities under
national regulations. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the provincial EPBs
would (a) deternine which of these TVEs would require effluent treatment facilities,



- 34 -
(b) review and approve the final designs of the necessary effluent treatment facilides prior
to beginning construcdon, and (c) supervise the plant's implementation and maintenance
of effluent monitoring and treatment systems. PMO environmental assessment and
monitoring units (EUs, para. 4.4) would also confirm that the appropriate EPB has issued
full environmental clearance for each TVE.
3.35      Key monitoring indicators include wage and remittance levels, enterprise
profitability and worker safety records. In addition, in cases in which land acquisition is
required for TVE development, the payment of timely and adequate compensation will be
monitored, based on Chinese regulations and Bank Group policy. Food processing TVEs
would be subject to regular sanitary inspections by local health authorities. In accordance
with Bank Group regulations, no TVEs will be involved in tobacco production or
processing.
Institution Building and Poverty Monitoring
3.36      Institution Building. Careful implementation of the project requires that the
PADOs and PMOs be greatly strengthened, particularly at the central and provincial levels.
To this end, an institutional development program to strengthen the PADOs and PMOs
would be implemented as an integral part of the project. The program would include:
(a) institutional design, including the design of organizational setup, definition of functions
and formulation of policies and procedures; (b) human resource development, including
training and technical assistance; (c) provision of facilities, including office space, office
furniture and equipment and vehicles; and (d) development of a computer-based
information system to facilitate project management. Due to the program-lending nature
of the project, special attention would be paid to upgrading the PADOs' and PMOs'
abilities in development planning, project selection and appraisal, and monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation.
3.37      Research, Training and Technical Assistance. The project would fund
research, local and overseas training, study tours and technical assistance comprising both
foreign and local consultants. Each project component (except for rural infrastructure and
TVE development) includes research, training and technical assistance (Annex 9). Except
for technical assistance for institution building ($1 million), all project technical assistance
would support project preparation and implementation. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that (a) all training, including study tours, and research under the project
would be carried out in accordance with training and research programs agreed with the
Bank Group, and (b) the WBPO would provide an annual plan to the Bank Group by
December I of each year that would include a list of proposed research, training, study
tours and technical assistance for the coming year.
3.38      Poverty Monitoring. The establishment of an objective poverty-monitoring
system is essential to achieving the project's principal objective of demonstrating the
effectiveness of a focused, multisectoral, rural development project approach to poverty
reduction. In collaboration with ongoing PRDPH work with SSB (para. 1.8), the project
would develop such a system for the project areas using improved survey instruments. The



- 35 -
system would provide a credible and comprehensive poverty profile for the project areas,
analyze the accuracy of targeting benefits to the absolute poor, and measure and evaluate
the impact of the project's individual components. It would provide an important testing
ground for assisting in the establishment of a national poverty monitoring system that
would, in turn, serve as a crucial underpinning for the government's overall poverty-
reduction program.
3.39      The four main elements of the poverty monitoring system are (a) upgrading
SSB's existing rural household survey, (b) carrying out pilot, baseline and annual follow-up
surveys, (c) processing and analyzing the collected survey data, and (d) disseminating
findings and information (Annex 8!. The project poverty-monitoring system would build
upon SSB's existing survey instruments, with adjustments to target project areas, by
decreasing the number of entries and by improving individual and community modules to
incorporate important questions on household expenditure, education, health, labor mobility
and credit experience. A pilot area survey of 600 of the poorest project households was
completed in September 1994 to provide a socioeconomic profile of the absolute poor. For
the baseline and annual follow-up surveys, SSB would design, test and modify
questionnaires during the first half of 1995. The baseline survey would be undertaken in
December 1995 and follow-up surveys would be carried out annually in December for the
remainder of the project. LGPR and SSB would collaborate on data processing and
analysis and the publication of an annual summary report.
D. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.40      Feasibility studies have been completed for the three provinces and all 35
project counties, including representative designs for all the subprojects, and
comprehensive development plans for 105 administrative villages. The three provincial
studies and the studies for 11 of the 35 counties have been thoroughly reviewed by the
Bank Group (5 counties) and WBPO and provincial PMOs (all 11 counties) prior to and
during appraisal.  Extensive revisions have been made in accordance with the
recommendations of these reviews. In accordance with the principles and standards agreed
during the project preparation and appraisal, the provincial PMOs have now thoroughly
reviewed the remainder of the feasibility studies. Implementation of (a) pilot programs for
the labor mobility and social services components, (b) several of the comprehensive village
development program in selected counties, (c) the full range of project components in
Mashan County, and (d) institution building at the central and provincial levels began in
January 1995. During the early stages of implementation, and in accordance with the
govemment's basic investment project review and approval process and Bank Group
regulations, detailed implementation plans and engineering designs for each project
component would be carefully reviewed by the PMOs at all levels and concerned technical
departments.
3.41      Feasibility studies for the Guangxi municipal employment development
subcomponent have also been completed and appraised by the Bank Group. Representative
designs and detailed layouts have been completed for the BPREZ, low-income housing,
aquaculture, forestry and agriculture subprojects.



- 36 -
E. IMPLEMNTAnON SCHEDULE
3.42      The project would be implemented during a period of six years beginning in
August 1995, with completion in July 2001. The social services component would be
implemented in a five-year period. Except for the livestock and aquaculture subprojects,
which would be finished in three years beginning in 1995, the land and farmer
development component would be phased over a six-year period.  For the rural
infrastructure component, the water supply and fuel-saving stove subprojects would be
completed in three years, while the power, roads and irrigation subprojects would be
scheduled over five years. Rural industrial and agroprocessing projects would also be
scheduled for five years due to the flexibility needed to respond to the changing market
situation. The labor mobility component would be implemented in two phases, with
careful review scheduled between the phases (para. 3.17). A phased approach is also
designed for the farmers' markets subproject (para. 3.32). Implementation of the Guangxi
municipal employment development subcomponent activities would be completed within
three to five years, depending upon the activity.
F. PRoJEcr CoT   AND FINANCING
3.43      Costs. The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at Y 4.23 billion ($486.4 million). The foreign exchange costs are estimated to
be Y 1.27 billion ($146 million), or 30 percent of the total. Taxes and duties are not
included in the estimated costs. The cost estimates are based on unit prices currently
prevailing in the project area and derived from typical designs (paras. 3.40 and 3.41).
Base cost is expressed in January 1995 prices. Physical contingencies average about
5 percent of base cost. Price contingency estimates average about 25 percent of base cost,
and have been calculated for both foreign and local costs using the Bank Group's estimated
annual escalation factors (reported in para. 9 of Annex 5).  Physical and price
contingencies amount to $1 11 million and represent 30 percent of the base cost. Estimated
project costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 9.
3.44      FSnancing. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 128.6 million ($200 million
equivalent) and IBRD Loan of $47.5 million would cover about 51 percent of total project
costs and all of the foreign exchange component. The remaining project costs would be
financed by central and local govemments and the beneficiaries as follows:
$ million
IDA                                               200.0
EBRD                                               47.5
Central Govemment                                  50.0
Provincial Govemments                             100.0
County Govemments and Beneficiaries                50.0
Beihai, Nanning and Fangcheng Municipalities       38.9
TOTAL



- 37 -
Table 3.1 PRoJEcr CosT SUmmARY
Percent    Percent
Y million                S million        Share of    Foreign
Local   Foreign   Toul    Local  Foreign  Toul  Bae Cost  Exchange
Social Services                   276.6    118.6    395.2   31.8    13.6    45.4      12        30
Labor Mobility                    276.1    118.3    394.4   31.7    13.6    45.3      12        30
Ruml Infastructure                237.7    101.9    339.7   27.3    11.7    39.0      10        30
Land &FarmerDevelopment           681.7    292.2    973.9   78.4    33.6   111.9      30        30
TVE Development                   328.5    140.8    469.3   37.8    16.2    53.9      14        30
Intitution Building                38.4     16.4    54.8    4.4      1.9     6.3       2        30
Proct & Poverty Monitoring        33.6      14.4    48.0    3.9      1.7     5.S       2        30
uangxi Employment Development     410.3    175.9    586.2   47.2    20.2    67.4      18        30
ToWl Bae Cost                2.283.1    978.5  3,261.5  262.4   112.5   374.9     100        30
Physical Conlingency              121.9    52.2    174.1   14.0      6.0    20.0       5        30
Price Contingency                 557.0   238.7    795.8   64.0    27.4    91.5       25        30
Total Proiect Cod            2.962.0  1.269.4  4.231.4  340.5   145.9   486.4     130        30
Abc: Totab may not add up due to rounding.
G. PRocuREmEO
3.45         Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.
3.46         Works.  Civil works worth about $211.2 million would be required for the
project, including earth and stone work, structures for irrigation and rural water supply
systems, roads and rural electricity, buildings, and crop establishment and livestock
maintenance. These works would be scattered over 40 counties and municipalities and
carried out over four years, and would be too dispersed to be of interest to international
construction companies. As a result, no ICB procurement of works is planned. Instead,
about $70 million of civil works would be procured through national competitive bidding
(NCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank Group for construction of roads and larger
structures and buildings. The maximum size of contract to be let through NCB would be
no more than $2.5 million. Other civil works amounting to about $51 million, comprising
land development, minor structures and buildings, and village roads, would be too small,
labor-intensive, and widely scattered to be suitable for competitive contracting, and would
be undertaken through force account by local labor forces (mostly farmers) mobilized by
counties and townships. Crop establishment ($75 million) and livestock maintenance ($16
million) works would be undertaken through force account by participating farmers.
3.47         Goods. Goods worth about $143.6 million would be required for the project.
International competitive bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for steel, fertlizer,
plastic sheeting, vehicles, and computers (about $42 million, or nearly one third of all
goods). Qualified domestic bidders competing under ICB will be eligible for a 15 percent
preference in bid evaluation, or customs duties and import tax payable by a nonexempt



- 38 -
Table 3.2: SUmmARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMET ARRANGEMEms La
($ million)
Procurement Method
ICB    NCB    Otherfk  NBGFLc   Total
Land Acquisition                   -       -          -    12.1        12.1
(0.0)
Civil Works                        -      70.0      50.9    -         120.9
(24.3)    (10.6)            (34.9)
Crop Establishment                 -       -        74.7    -          74.7
(14.7)            (14.7)
Livestock Maintenance              -        -        15.6    -         15.6
(3.1)             (3.1)
Equipment                          4.3    27.1       18.0    -         49.4
(4.3)  (20.3)    (13.5)            (38.1)
Vehicles                          11.9     -          -      -         11.9
(I 11.9)                            (I 1.9)
Construction Materials             5.7    15.9       0.6    -          22.2
(5.7)  (11.9)     (0.5)            (18.1)
Agricultural Inputs               20.3     1.5       5.0    -          26.7
(20.3)   (1.1)     (3.7)            (25.1)
Breeding Stock                     -      28.5       4.9    -          33.4
(21.4)     (3.7)            (25.0)
Tuition & Medical Assistance       -       -        17.0    3.3        20.3
(17.0)            (17.0)
Labor Training & Placement         -       -        51.2    -          51.2
(35.8)            (35.8)
Research, Training & TA            -       -        29.9    -          29.9
(21.4)            (21.4)
Others                             -       -         4.6   13.4        18.0
(2.3)             (2.3)
TQtal                         42A    143.0      272   6 .         486.4
(42.1_  (79.0)   (126.4)  (QLQ0    (247.5)
La   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Group.
lk  Includes small contracts, force account, limited international bidding, etc.
&   Not financed by the Bank Group.
importer, whichever is less. ICB contracts would be grouped into packages of $200,000
or more.



- 39 -
3.48      NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank Group, in which foreign suppliers may
participate, would be used to procure contracts under $200,000 totaling about $73 million
worth of goods, including small agricultural and agroprocessing machinery and equipment
(totaling about $22 million), school, health and other office equipment (totaling about $5
million), and some construction materials, agricultural inputs, and most breeding stock
(totaling about $47 million). Due to its limited shelf life and the need to supply numerous
scattered project sites and the limited handling and storage capacity in the project area,
cement would be procured under NCB in small batches not exceeding 100 tons per batch.
Therefore, following annual NCB, provincial and county PMOs would place orders with
cement suppliers covering their annual needs, with deliveries staged to suit the
requirements during the year. Pesticides and specialized agroprocessing and research
equipment ($7 million) would be procured though limited international bidding since there
are only a limited number of suppliers of such specialized items who could offer
competitive prices. (ICB would therefore not be the most economic and efficient method
of procurement for such products.) All contracts under $50,000 for goods would be
procured through national shopping in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. National shopping would total $15.4 million and would cover some breeding
animals and fattening pigs, seeds and seedlings, and small quantities of equipment,
instruments and miscellaneous goods.
3.49      Other Procurement.  Tuition assistance, nutrition supplementation, and
medical assistance ($20.3 million), labor training and placement ($51.2 million), and
research, training, and technical assistance ($29.9 million) would be carried out based on
programs agreed with the Bank Group. Consultants would be employed in accordance
with the Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.2/ Certain incremental
recurrent operating costs of project management would be paid against an agreed schedule
of costs.
3.50      Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. Bidding documents for works
contracts estimated to exceed $2 million in value and goods packages in excess of
$200,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank Group. This would cover
approximately 20 goods packages over the six-year implementation period. Consistent with
the relatively small size and diverse nature of the goods, this would represent about
30 percent of total goods by value. Bidding documents for the first three works and goods
contracts to be let through NCB in each province, and consultants' contracts estimated to
exceed $100,000 in the case of firms and $50,000 in the case of individual consultants,
would also be subject to prior review by the Bank Group. Standard bidding documents
approved by the Bank Group would be used.J/ Other contracts would be subject to
selective review after bid awards. The China National Technical Import and Export
Corporation (CNTIC) and the International Tendering Company of the China Machinery
2/ 'Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank Executing
Agencies,' August 1981, and 'Consultant Employment Handbook," December 1989.
3/ Includes prequalification, notice of invitation to bid, bid documents, bid evaluation forms, and
contracts.



- 40 -
Import and Export Corporation (CMIEC) have been appointed procurement agents for the
project.
H. DsuRsEmENis
3.51      Proceeds of the Bank Group loan and credit would be disbursed as summarized
in Table 3.3. Disbursement for vehicles, farm machinery, equipment for agroprocessing
and other TVEs, equipment and instruments for the health and education component,
breeding stock, construction materials, laboratory equipment, fertilizer, farm chemicals,
and plastic sheeting would be at 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of imported
items and 100 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items. Disbursement
for other goods procured locally would be 75 percent. Disbursement for tuition assistance
and medical assistance would be at 100 percent of total costs (see Annex 9, Tables 2, 3
and 10). Overseas and domestic training, study tours, and international and domestic
consultant services would also be 100 percent of total costs. Disbursement for labor
training and placement under the labor mobility component would be 70 percent of total
costs (see Annex 9, Table 4). Disbursement for research and project management would
be at 50 percent of total costs. Disbursement for crop establishment, livestock and
aquaculture tending, irrigation works, terracing, water supply, roads, rural electrification,
biogas, fuel-saving stoves would average 26 percent of total expenditures. Disbursement
for the Guangxi municipal employment development subcomponent would be made only
from the Bank loan.
3.52      Disbursement for the first three contracts for goods and works under NCB for
each province, for works contracts over $2 million equivalent, goods contracts over
$200,000 equivalent, and for consultancy contracts over $100,000 equivalent for firms and
$50,000 equivalent for individuals would be made on the basis of full documentation.
Disbursement for contracts for works, goods, and consultant contracts below those amounts
and all training would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Disbursements would also be made against SOEs in the case of tuition and medical
assistance, labor training and placement, research, project management, study tours, and
works carried out by farmers. SOEs would be supported by progress reports showing
physical quantities and unit prices (the latter would be updated annually by WBPO and
provincial PMOs and reviewed by the Bank Group). Supporting documentation would be
retained by PMOs and made available to Bank Group supervision missions.
3.53      The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001 and the closing date
would be December 31, 2001. China enjoys a favorable record in project implementation
and disbursement superior to Bank Group and Asia averages. The project disbursement
profile is consistent with other rural development projects in China. The estimated
disbursement schedule is given in Annex 11.
3.54      Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement, two Special Accounts, one for
the credit and one for the loan, will be established in a bank acceptable to the Bank Group.
The Special Account for the credit will have an authorized allocation of $11 million, which
is the four-month estimated average disbursement through that Account. The Special
Account for the loan will have an authorized allocation of $3 million. Applications for



- 41 -
Table 3.3: DISBURSEmENT ARRANGEMENT
Category                          Amount                 Percentage
disbursable             disbursement
($ million)
Works, Crop Establishment, and
Livestock Maintenance              31.4      20% of total expenditure
Works for the Guangxi Employment
Development Subcomponent           21.3      55% of total expenditure
Goods                               115.4      100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory), 75 % for goods procured
locally
Tuition Assistance and Medical
Assistance                         17.0      100% of total expenditures La
Labor Training & Placement           35.9      70% of total expenditures
Training & Services                  13.8      100% of total expenditures
Research                              7.7      50% of total expenditures
Project Management                    2.3      50% of total expenditures
Unallocated                           2.7
Iota1                           247.5
La Total expenditure would decline annually on the basis shown in Annex 9, Table 10.
replenishment of the Special Accounts would be submitted monthly or whenever either
Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
3.55      Retroactive Financing. Due to the need to (a) initiate the social services,
labor mobility, and institution-building components; (b) establish tree nurseries and
undertake some land preparation; (c) begin the full range of activities and the village
comprehensive development programs in selected "prototype" counties (e.g., Mashan
County in Guangxi); and (d) test selected activities under the Guangxi municipal
employment development subcomponent prior to the startup of the other project
components, retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures incurred for these
activities after January 1, 1995 and before the date of signing of the Loan/Credit
Agreements. The total disbursable amount would be up to $24.75 million equivalent.
I. AccouNT AND AuDrr
3.56      The provincial and county PMOs would maintain records of all project
component expenditures. These records would be forwarded regularly to WBPO, whose



- 42 -
financial section would consolidate the accounts for review and audit. Assurances were
obtained that consolidated accounts would be maintained for annual auditing by auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group and that the audited accounts, including the Special Account,
together with the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months
of the close of each fiscal year. Audited accounts would include details on: use of the
Special Account, withdrawals from the Loan/Credit account made on the basis of SOEs,
and the auditors' opinion as to whether such withdrawals were made against expenditures
eligible for Bank Group disbursement.
J. ENViRONMETAL AND SOCIAL IMPAcr
3.57      Overall, the project is expected to have a favorable environmental impact. The
land and farmer development component would make significant contributions to the
mitigation of the existing environmental problems in the project areas of severe soil erosion
and degraded vegetative cover (para. 6.5). To avoid one of the few potential negative
impacts of project activities, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) pesticides
to be provided under the project would be approved by the Bank Group and would be
stored and handled in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank Group, and
(b) all project actvities would comply with environmental standards satisfactory to the
Bank Group, necessary mitigation actions would be taken, and actions taken to fulfill the
recommendations contained in the Environmental Assessment Report would be included in
the annual work programs forwarded to the Bank Group.
3.58      Other components would take all necessary actions to minimize negative effects
on the environment.  One of the five TVE selection criteria examines the likely
environmental impact, and this has led to the elimination of several proposed ventures
(para. 3.30). TVEs supported by the project would address environmental issues during
the design stage by submitting plans to the provincial and county EPBs, thereby meeting
national pollution control requirements. During this review process, special attention has
been and would be given to controlling emissions and effluents that are byproducts of
production processes. Food processing TVEs would also be subject to regular sanitary
inspections by local health authorities. In addition, all housing and enterprise activities
supported by the Guangxi municipal employment development subcomponent would take
precautions to minimize and control emissions and effluents.
3.59      TVE establishment and expansion and other project activities would require
acquisition of less than 350 ha of cultivated land. Current land acquisition plans do not
require the involuntary resettlement of people, and the Bank Group would not approve
(during project implementation) any changes to the project or land acquisition plans that
would require involuntary resettlement of people.  Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (a) all proposed land acquisition required for project activities would be
reviewed by county, prefectural or provincial land administration bureaus in accordance
with existing national regulations; (b) the existing land administration system for valuation
of land and other assets affected by the project would be used, with plans for compensation
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group; and (c) land
acquisition and compensation actvities undertaken due to project activities would be



- 43 -
monitored by the PMOs and included in the semiannual progress reports to be provided
to the Bank Group (para. 4.17).
3.60      Social Aspects.  The project's components also directly address the
fundamental social problems in the project area of grossly inadequate educational
attainment, excessive morbidity and mortality, severe underemployment, and the lack of
access to roads, safe drinking water and electricity. During project preparation, there has
been careful targeting of the poorest upland counties, townships and villages, and the
project has a correspondingly high share of ethnic minorities, far in excess of the national
and provincial shares (para. 2.36). The education subcomponent includes inservice
bilingual education training and the recruitment of women teachers and administrators, and
strongly favors girls' primary education (para. 3.5).
3.61      The most significant social risks are related to the participation of large
numbers of women and indigenous people in the innovative labor mobility component.
Special attention has been given to the enterprise selection process and orientation of
voluntary migrants, and an important role has been defined for ACWF in this process
(para. 3.14). Incentives would be provided to encourage local TVEs to provide low-skill
employment to representative numbers of women and indigenous people consistent with
their large share of the project population, and all new low-skill jobs created by TVEs that
receive support from the project would be filled in large part with women and minorities
in coordination with the local Labor Bureau. This affirmative-action approach would not
have negative effects since many sectors, such as handicrafts and agroprocessing, tend to
have 60 to 80 percent female staff. The emphasis on local labor markets for more
vulnerable groups such as women and indigenous people would minimize job turnover due
to inappropriate placement and the risk of sexual exploitation, which is more prominent
in large coastal labor markets.



- 44 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1       Summary. LGPR and its World Bank Project Office (WBPO) would have
principal responsibility for overall project implementation. At the provincial level, Project
Leading Groups (PLGs) have been set up to (a) mobilize institutional, technical and
financial resources and support for the preparation and implementation of the project; and
(b) provide a critical coordination and monitoring function.  In addition, Project
Management Offices (PMOs) have been established to ensure effective and timely
implementation of the project. The complexity of the project requires that WBPO and
provincial PMOs be greatly strengthened. An institutional development program to
strengthen WBPO and provincial PMOs would be implemented as an integral part of the
project (para. 3.36). At the county level, PLGs and PMOs have also been set up. The
several technical Bureaus directly involved in the project would, in close cooperation with
the township government and their offices at the administrative village level, play a key
role in the day-to-day implementation of the project. At both the central and provincial
levels, Technical Advisory Groups have been set up to provide technical support for the
project implementation. The general organization of the project is shown in Chart 1.
4.2       Central Level. The project is an integral part of the government's 8-7 Plan
(para. 1.12), and LGPR would be the decision-making body of the project and would take
full responsibility in coordinating various government agencies in the implementation of
the project.
4.3       WBPO would serve as the secretariat for LGPR on all project-related matters,
and would be responsible for the management of overall project implementation. WBPO
would provide guidance and assistance to PMOs at lower levels in subproject selection and
appraisal, and would have responsibility for overall project monitoring and evaluation.
WBPO would also be directly responsible for the implementation of the interprovincial part
of the labor mobility component and part of the institutional development component of the
project. Other responsibilities of WBPO include: arranging combined procurement under
ICB and international shopping; preparing applications for withdrawals from the credit and
loan proceeds; arranging the preparation of consolidated accounting, auditing and progress
reports, including the implementation completion report; coordinating institutional
development aspects, particularly overseas training, study tours and technical assistance;
and providing liaison with the Bank. During the course of project preparation, LGPR's
WBPO was established with Bureau-level status and approved for 30 professional-level
staff positions. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that WBPO would be staffed
at levels, and maintained with functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group.



- 45 -
4.4       Two Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs) have been set up at the national level
to provide technical support to LGPR and WBPO. Comprised of senior staff of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, one TAG provides support on both key technical issues for
project preparation and implementation. The other TAG, which is primarily staffed with
senior consultants with a great deal of experience in the preparation and implementation
of the Bank Group's projects in China, provides support on detailed technical issues and
issues related to the organization of project implementation. In addition, the Chinese
Academy of Sciences (CAS) has sent at least one staff to each of the 35 project counties.
These CAS staff have taken positions as deputy county heads, and are responsible for
technical issues of the project. Also, in close collaboration with WBPO, SSB is directly
involved in the design and implementation of the project's poverty monitoring
subcomponent (para. 3.39). Environmental assessment and monitoring units (EUs) would
be established within the central and provincial PMOs in accordance with terms of
reference that were finalized during negotiations. The terms of reference require that
funding for individual TVEs be made available by the project provinces only after the EU
has confirmed that the appropriate EPB has issued full environmental clearances for the
proposed enterprise. The EU will also include a land acquisition specialist to advise on
the implementation of timely compensation of people affected by project land acquisition
(para. 3.59).
4.5       A new joint entity formed by LGPR and MOL would manage the project's
central labor mobility component fund to (a) establish a job placement system for
interprovincial labor mobility and (b) provide provincial and county Labor Bureau staff
with management training. A separate consultative body would be established consisting
of representatives of ACWF, the Public Security Bureau, the Ministry of Communications
and the Ministry of Industry. The formation of the new entity would minimize the effects
of bureaucratic tendencies and avoid high fees and ineffective monitoring systems in the
existing system. The joint entity's activities would be managed in a businesslike manner,
monitoring the responses of enterprises to training reimbursement and other incentives and
developing a plan for long-term financial self-sufficiency. It would be more responsive
to the needs of women and ethnic minorities, developing effective safeguards to minimize
special risks faced by these groups. Training and specialized technical assistance needs for
the joint entity and county labor bureaus would be included in the overall project training
and technical assistance programs. It would also build links to existing labor mobility
research institutions and, based on project experiences, offer policy recommendations.
4.6       Provincial Level. PLGs have been established in each of the three project
provinces. PLGs are headed by a vice governor in charge of poverty reduction and
assisted by representatives from the provincial PADO, Planning Commission and Finance
Bureau, the several technical Bureaus directly involved in the project (including the
Agriculture, Forestry, Health, Education, Labor and Statistical Bureaus), ACWF, and the
Agricultural Development Bank of China (ADBC). The main responsibilities of the PLGs
are to formulate project-related policies and plans, approve subproject designs, and
mobilize institutional, technical and financial resources and support for the implementation
of the project. PLGs would also provide a critical coordination and monitoring function.



- 46 -
4.7       Similar to WBPO at the central level, PMOs have been set up at the provincial
level. In close association with provincial PADOs, provincial PMOs serve as the
secretariat for PLGs and would manage the implementation of the project in their
corresponding provinces. PMOs would (a) review and approve feasibility studies prepared
by the project counties, (b) draw up annual work programs and budgets, (c) review and
approve lower-level PMO work plans, (d) approve disbursement of Bank Group and
govemment funds to local govemment accounts, (e) arrange the preparation and submit to
the central project office detailed project accounts, audits, withdrawal applications and
progress reports, (f) arrange common procurement, and (g) undertake project monitoring
of physical and financial progress and evaluations of project impact. Provincial PMOs
would also directly implement the provincial part of the institutional-development
component (para 3.36) and coordinate the research program of the land and farmer
development component (para 3.29). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
provincial PMOs would (a) be staffed at levels, and maintained with functions and
responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group, and (b) prepare and furnish a detailed
annual budget and work plan, including training, acceptable to the Bank Group, by
December 1 of each year, for project implementation the following year.
4.8      In order to take full advantage of the Ministry of Labor's existing information
network and nationwide hierarchy of Labor Bureaus, the provincial Labor Bureaus, in
conjunction with PMOs, would continue to play a leading role in the final preparation and
the implementation of the labor mobility component. Similarly, the provincial Health and
Educational Bureaus would also take a leading role in the preparation and implementation
of the social services component in order to secure reasonable consistency among the
counties and to improve the overall quality of implementation. For the project's other
components, the chain of command would directly link the provincial PMOs with county
level organizations (instead of going through provincial bureaus) in order to ensure
adequate coordination at the county-level and below. Support from all provincial agencies
(including the Labor, Health, and Education Bureaus) would be secured through the
function of the provincial PLGs. To provide technical support to provincial PLGs and
PMOs, TAGs comprising experts and senior consultants in various fields have also been
set up at the provincial level.
4.9       County Level and Below. PLGs have also been established at both the county
and township levels in order to fully mobilize existing institutional resources and guarantee
coordination among various agencies and units. Chaired by the county magistrate, the
county PLGs would take full responsibility for project implementation in their respective
county. County PMOs, chaired by deputy county magistrates responsible for poverty
reduction, have also been set up. The county PMOs function as the secretariat for the
county PLGs, and serve as the contact with project organizations at higher levels. The
county PMOs would also be responsible for project monitoring and evaluation, financial
management, arrangement of common procurement and distribution of goods and services
procured, and common training components in conjunction with line agencies at the county
level.



- 47 -
4.10      County technical bureaus directly involved in the project would, in close
cooperation with Township Project Work Stations (TPWS) and Village Project Execution
Groups, be responsible for the day-to-day execution of the project in their corresponding
area. Under the leadership of the county PLG and PMO, the Health and Education
Bureaus would be responsible for the social services component; the Labor Bureaus for the
labor mobility component; the Agriculture, Water Resources, Forestry Bureaus and other
relevant bureaus for the land and farmers development component; and the Power,
Transportation, and Industry and Commerce Administration Bureaus for the rural
infrastructure component. Execution of the TVE development component would be the
responsibility of the county TVE Bureau and several other bureaus with responsibility for
rural industry. Responsibilities of these implementing agencies include planning, financial
management, procurement, disbursement, quality control, monitoring and evaluation, and
encouraging farmers to participate in the project. Local nongovernmental organizations,
such as ACWF, would also be involved in the implementation of the project in activities
such as farmers' training and monitoring and evaluation.
4.11      Various economic entities would be engaged in the implementation of the
project. In addition to individual project farm households, joint household entities with
various forms of ownership would be engaged in more commercially oriented agriculture
and forestry activities, e.g., fruit production. Joint ventures, between farmers and local
businesses, would also engage in commercially oriented production. For project activities
in mining, manufacturing, processing and service industries, TVEs with various forms of
ownership would play a dominant role. In addition, local employment agencies would be
engaged in the labor mobility activities.
4.12      Guangxi Municipal Employment Development Subcomponent.  The
organizational arrangement for implementation of the Guangxi municipal employment
development subcomponent would be the same as that for the rest of the project at the
central and provincial levels. At the municipal level, the standard PLG and PMO have
been set up in Beihai, Nanning and Fangcheng. In Beihai, where the proposed subprojects
would support a poverty reduction experimental program, the Rural Reform Experimental
Area Office would also play a key role in project management. Execution of the
subprojects would be carried out by various bureaus and enterprises of the three
municipalities.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
4.13      Flow of Funds. MOF would onlend (a) the proceeds of the IDA credit to the
central PADO and the governments of the three project provinces, and (b) the IBRD loan
directly to Guangxi. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) MOF would onlend
the proceeds of the IDA credit to the governments of the three project provinces at
2 percent interest rate a year with a repayment period of 20 years, including a 6-year
grace period, (b) MOF would onlend the IBRD loan at the IBRD rate directly to Guangxi
Province, and (c) the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provincial governments
and central PADO (for the interprovincial labor mobility component to be implemented
directly by WBPO). MOF would also manage both Special Accounts. A portion of the



- 48 -
Bank Group funds onlent to the provinces would be used directly by the provinces to cover
the costs of institutional development, research, technical assistance, training, equipment,
management expenses and labor mobility activities. The provincial Finance Departments,
representing the provincial governments, would channel the remaining funds successively
to prefecture, municipal, county and township governments through their internal financial
system. Onlending to farmers and enterprises would be only for activities that have been
appraised and approved by the project implementing agencies. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that onlending to TVEs and project enterprises in Beihai, Fangcheng and
Nanning (excluding enterprises responsible for labor mobility actvities) would be at
interest rates no less than the prevailing rate on ADBC loans for similar purposes.
C. ExECUTION OF PROJECT WORKS
4.14      Construction of minor works would be undertaken by participating poor
farmers or contracted out to construction enterprises depending on the component and local
circumstances. Land development and crop establishment would also be carried out by the
farmers participating in the project. Work teams from participating villages would be
organized to carry out labor-intensive works such as terracing and some road construction.
Larger works, such as large structures for irrigation systems and rural infrastructure and
larger buildings, would be contracted to construction companies. For the labor mobility
component, employment agencies of various kinds would carry out activities such as
collection of employment information, market promotion, and training and placement of
the laborers. Provision of initial training and monitoring of the employment conditions
would be the responsibilities of WBPO, provincial and county PMOs and Labor Bureaus,
and ACWF at various levels. The institutional development component and the centralized
taining and TA activities would be carried out by the WBPO and the provincial PMOs.
4.15      Prior to implementation, the provincial PMOs would further evaluate all the
county-level project feasibility studies (including representative designs for various types
of subprojects) to ensure that they are consistent with overall project objectives (para 3.40).
Criteria agreed during appraisal would be followed in the evaluation. Provincial line
agencies and TAGs would be mobilized to provide technical inputs in the reviewing
process. WBPO would (a) provide overall guidance and undertake a final quality check
as part of the evaluation and (b) present a summary of the outcome of the review process
to the Bank Group before September 1995. Detailed planning and design of subprojects
would be carried out by the respective implementing agencies and qualified design
institutes at various levels and reviewed according to domestic procedures. The provincial
PMOs should review at least two designs for each subproject in each project county.
Annual work programs and budget would be prepared based on the detailed designs and
sent to the Bank for review before December 1 of each year. To achieve the necessary
flexibility in project design and implementation, an assurance was obtained at negotiations
that WBPO and provincial PMOs would undertake a mid-term review of the project jointly
with the Bank Group by June 30, 1997.



- 49 -
D. PRoJEcT LAuNcH WoRKSoP
4.16      To organize and initiate project implementation, the Bank Group and WBPO
would conduct a Project Launch Workshop in China for staff of provincial and county
PMOs. The purpose of the workshop would be to review the total program for
implementation and to clarify tasks and responsibilities at each level. Topics would include
Bank Group guidelines and procedures for procurement and disbursement, financial
management, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and computerized project planning
and management.
E. MONITORING, EVALUATON, AND REPoRTING
4.17      WBPO and provincial, municipal and county PMOs would monitor the
project's overall progress and impact, and evaluate the economic and financial benefits
from each component. Current accounts of physical and financial process for each
component would be kept to allow comparisons with management projections. The
project's impact on the incomes and physical well-being of project farmers would be
systematically monitored under the project's poverty monitoring component. Special
attention would be given to the effects of project activities on women and ethnic minorities.
A vision of what a project community would look like after project completion, a list of
key monitoring indicators for physical progress and project expenditures, and a plan for
Bank supervision are given in Annex 13. Information would be submitted by county
PMOs to provincial PMOs, then to WBPO, which would prepare consolidated semiannual
progress reports for submission to the Bank Group. In addition to routine reporting,
WBPO and PMOs would undertake on-site supervision at least twice a year.
Interprovincial and intercounty supervision would also be carried out periodically.
Findings of this on-site supervision, including problems identified and corrective actions
required, would be presented in the semiannual progress reports. Project completion
reports would be prepared for each component as they are completed. WBPO would
prepare, and submit to the Bank Group no later than three months following the closing
date, a final implementation completion report for the whole project based on the county,
municipal and provincial completion reports.



- 50 -
5. PRODUCTION AND MARKETS
A. PRODUCION
5.1      Incremental production under the project (Table 5.1) would derive from
(a) improved land use management by introducing more sustainable cultivation and
conservation technologies in the uplands; (b) increased crop yields by providing quality
seeds and other inputs, and integrated land improvement with supplementary irrigation and
drainage; (c) expansion of tree crop production areas, through reclamation of unused or
underutilized lands; (d) increased livestock production through improved management and
support of smalUholder animal husbandry; (e) improved access to agricultural extension and
input supply systems; and (f) increased availability of financial resources and improved
technologies for township and village enterprises.
5.2       Food and Cash Crops. The project would significantly increase yields and
output of grain, fodder and cash crops. Terracing, improvement of low-yield fields, and
extension programs would be the main factors contributing to the expected yield increases
of 38 percent for corn, 46 percent for potato, and 107 percent for fodder. Even greater
corn yield increases could be achieved through the extension of modern inputs, particularly
hybrid seeds and plastic sheeting, but this would entail much greater production costs and
risks for poor upland farmers. Therefore, improved conventional varieties with much
lower input costs would be encouraged during the initial years of the project. At full
development, production would increase by 122,710 tons of corn, 120,000 tons of sweet
potatoes and cassava, and about 10,000 tons of paddy and winter grains. The area planted
to paddy would increase slightly, while that of corn and tubers would decrease as they
would be gradually replaced by new mulberry trees and other cash crops. In addition, the
project would support the development of 10,124 ha of annual cash crops, resulting in
incremental output at full development of about 15,818 tons of medicinal herbs, 113,765
tons of sugarcane, and 19,434 tons of vegetables and other cash crops.
5.3       Tree Crops and Forestry. Most project households would take part in the
development of a wide variety of tree and bush crops on about 87,000 ha of sloped terrain.
The introduction of high-quality seedlings, balanced fertilizer applications, supplementary
irrigation, and improved harvesting practices under the project would greatly increase
yields of marketable fruit. At full development, annual incremental production would
include about 16,000 tons of longan, 60,400 tons of walnuts, chestnuts and gingko,
45,000 tons of oranges and pomelo, 22,000 tons of apples, 2,400 tons of tea, and 237,400
and 78,000 cubic meters of timber and fuelwood.
5.4       Animal Husbandry. The project would support smallholder activities in
breeding or fattening of an incremental 88,000 cattle, 226,000 goats, and 100,000 pigs to



- 51 -
Table 5.1: ANNUAL PROWDCIION AT FULL DEVELOPMNr
WithoutP Ptect           With Prolct            Ilcreml Production
YTeld                  Yield                    Yimld
Ara/ ton/ha or Total    Areu/  ton/ha or Totaal    Aa  tooha or    Tota
Production Activitea    Unit  Number t/had (ton)    Number tonhead  (ton)    Number tn/had (too)   (S)
Grain/Fodder
Paddy               ha     40,000 3.300 132,000   40,191  3.300   132,630    191    0.0     630     0.5
Corn /a             ha    141,000 2.300 324,300   127,717  3.S00  447,010 (13,233)   1.2  122,710   37.3
Potato lk           ha     24,000 11.000 264,000   24,000 16.000  384,000     0    5.0  120,000   45.5
Wuter Grain /       ha     62,000 1.400  36,800   53,412  1.300   96,142  (3,583)   0.4   9,342    10.3
Other Food Crops    ha     96,000 0.600  57,600   96,000  0.600   57,600      0    0.0       0      0.0
Corn Straw as Fodder  ha    141,000 0.300  42,300   128,309  1.200   153,971 (12,691)   0.9  111,671   264.0
Other Fodder /d     ha     95,725  1.000  95,725   165,361  1.200  193,433  69,636  0.210    2,703   107.3
Tree Croos
Tea                 ha      2,100 0.200    420    4,726  0.600    2,U36   2,626    0.4   2,416   575.1
Mulberry            ha      1,000 1.000   1,000    6,094  1.500    9,141   5,094    0.5   3,141   314.1
Citrus              ha       234 16.000  3,744    1,169 20.000   23,330    935   4.01    9,636   524.5
Lonpn               ha       140 4.000    560    2,039  8.000    16,312   1,399    4.0  15,752 2,312.9
Other Fmuit         h       6,126 4.000  24,504   12,926 10.000  129,260   6,300    6.0  104,756   427.5
Waltnu/Cheatnxut/Oko ha     2,364 2.000   4,728    16,292  4.000   65,163  13,923    2.0  60,440 1,273.3
Barks and Resis     ha      1,049 0.300    315   21,066  0.350    7,373  20,017    0.1   7,0S3 2,242.9
Tung                ha      6,596 0.300  5,277    3,924  2.100    13,740   2,328    1.3  13,464   255.1
Other Resins /e     ha      1,049 0.300    315    9,039  0.550    4,971   7,990    0.3   4,657 1,479.7
Spices Ltf          ha      3,000 0.500   1,500    7,913  0.300    6,330   4,913    0.3   4,330   322.0
Other Tree Crops Lg   ha    3,346 0.500   1,673    9,401  0.600    5,641   6,055    0.1   3,963   237.2
Forect-timber1,     ha    44,649 20.000 392,930   53,321 21.200 1,130,405   3,672    1.2  237,425    26.6
Forest-fuelwood&    ha     37,700 11.000 414,700   43,221 11.400  492,719   5,521    0.4  73,019    13.3
Cash Crop
Medicinal plaz      ha       200 15.000   3,000    1,190 15.000    17,350    990    0.0  14,350   495.0
Other medicinal crops  ha    470 0.500    235    2,405  0.500    1,203   1,935    0.0       963   411.7
Sugarcane           ha      2,300 35.000  30,500    4,317 45.000   194,265   2,017   10.0  113,765   141.3
Vogetables          ha      7,900 15.000 118,500    8,391 15.500  130,061    491    0.3  11,561     9.3
Other creps         ha     27,130 1.000  27,130   31,S21  1.100   35,003   4,691    0.1   7,373    29.0
Liveock/uacaaulbze f
Cate/Baffado-at   hed    57,400 0.250  14,350  145,363  0300    43,609  37,963    0.1  29,259   203.9
is-meat            head   706,300 0.070  49,476  U36,930  0.075    60,524 100,130    0.0  11,048    22.3
Goat-meat          head    49,300 0.025   1,245  276,117  0.025    6,903 226,317    0.0   5,653   454.5
Chicken-meat       head 1,890,400 0.002   3,214 2,528,592  0.002    4,299 633,192    0.0   1,065    33.3
Bee hives-honey    hive   119,000 0.050   5,950   140,900  0.100    14,090  21,900    0.1   3,140   136.3
Aquacultue-fish     ha      1,100 2.500   2,750    1,307  3.000    3,921    207    0.5   1,171    42.6
a Mulbey and cash crops would  ph.. soms, corn area.
& Summer potato in Yunnan.
/c Wheat in Yunusn, potato in Gum, and soybean in ration wh corn in Guano.
/d Expresed as km of dry mast, ad includes fodder iererpped with treeps and fbdder the.
L/  Eucommia, gulnt and ca,n.
Ij Star anie, Sicuam pepper, and Chhm e cinnamon.
a  ncludes  mboo.
a Yield So one ct in cubic    .
Li Marketed hds for adllivgock.



- 52 -
provide organic fertilizer for crops and income generation for about 186,650 households.
About 70 percent of required animal feed would be produced on-farm from local trees, a
wide range of both local and introduced forage species, and more efficient use of corn stalk
(para. 3.27). Using improved breeds and feeds, and improved smallholder management
techniques, the incremental production of beef, pork and mutton would reach about
29,300, 11,048 and 5,700 tons, respectively. In addition, the project would support
production of several local breeds of chicken and household beekeeping.
5.5       Sericulture and Aquaculture.  The project would assist about 76,000
households to plant mulberry on 5,100 ha. At full development, mulberry production
would be sufficient to produce about 8,140 tons of fresh silk cocoons. The project would
also improve silk cocoon quality by improving household-level management, collection and
drying facilities, and supporting sericulture training for technicians and farmers. About
267 ha of fishponds would also be developed in the project counties. At full development,
total fish production would be over 1,000 tons per year.
5.6       Township and Village Enterprises. Under the project, 15 fruit processing
plants would produce about 18,000 tons per year of juice and dried, frozen and canned
fruit. Cold storage facilities with an annual capacity of 5,000 tons of fruit would be
constructed under the project. TVEs would also process or produce 4,300 tons of tea,
2,200 tons of sugar, 50,000 pieces of leather, about 18,000 cubic meters of forest products
and 600 tons of raw silk per year. In addition, there would be 26 plants for marble,
granite, and other construction materials for local sale. Up to 76 farmers' markets would
be built to provide market access to farmers in the project areas.
B.   NxR
5.7       The project area is chronically deficient in the production and availability of
most basic food crops and products, including grain, vegetable oil, and meat, critically
depends on continued government supplies of relief grain (para. 2.10). Previous policies
have emphasized food self-sufficiency, but have largely failed to achieve the desired effect
in poor upland counties where farmers attempt to produce grain on unsuitably steep and
rocky land. Most project incremental grain, vegetable oil and meat output would therefore
be consumed on the farm or sold to local markets. The market prospects for tree crops
and other cash crops under the project are also favorable since (a) fruit and nuts have very
high income elasticities of demand, (b) locational shifts in orchard crops and mulberry
favor production in the project areas since urbanization and industrialization continue to
increase factor prices for production in coastal areas, (c) the unusual geographical
conditions of the project area make it possible to exploit a number of seasonal niches, and
(d) total incremental production of each crop would account for a fraction of total
provincial production since the project is producing a large range of crops across a widely
dispersed geographic area. Consequently, local demand within the project area and south
China is expected to absorb all of the grain, fodder, timber, and aquaculture production
and most of the orchard, livestock, and sericulture production. A small balance would be
exported to other parts of China or nearby foreign markets.



- 53 -
5.8       During the past decade, government reforms have strongly emphasized
liberalization of marketing channels. As a result, nearly all agricultural commodities
produced under the project are now largely deregulated and, at least in part, traded through
the free-market system. Project farmers would be able to sell their products to (a) vendors
and households at local farmers' markets, (b) private traders, (c) agents from government
marketing enterprises, and (d) local agroprocessing industries.
5.9       Silk. China produced 660,000 tons of silk cocoon in 1992, and is moving
from heavy reliance on raw silk exports to processed goods that capture additional value
added from domestic manufacturing. At present, the three provinces account for less than
5 percent of China's total cocoon production, but their significant comparative advantage
in land and labor are consistent with an increased market share. Project incremental
production, which would amount to less than 10 percent of total current production in the
three provinces, would be sold primarily to the prefectural and county-level branch offices
of the China National Silk Import and Export Corporation (CNSIEC). CNSIEC fully
controls China's silk exports and pricing.
5.10      TVE Outputs. All agroprocessing feasibility studies would include a review
of commercial viability, and it is expected that incremental production would be absorbed
without difficulties through existing domestic and export markets. Given the high income
elasticity of demand for processed fruit, vegetables and meat, expected growth in per
capita income would lead to increased sales of processed goods from local TVEs. While
most TVE production will meet local demand, small amounts of fruit, silk and medicinal
herbs would be exported through existing channels. Construction materials would be
largely absorbed by high local demand from the booming construction industry.
C. PRICES
5.11      China's agricultural price reforms over the past decade have freed many
agricultural commodities from state control and increased the procurement prices of those
goods still subject to state marketing channels. In 1993, only 10 to 15 percent of the retail
value of agricultural commodities was reportedly traded at official state prices. Similarly,
in the project area, most agricultural commodity prices reflect market supply and demand,
and are broadly consistent with world market prices. Immediately after the harvest season,
for example, the free-market price of corn in the project area is about Y 0.95/kg, or about
10 percent greater than world prices. Silk prices, which are controlled by CNSIEC, are
an exception. However, CNSIEC's current pricing structure provides strong incentive for
mulberry and silkworm production in the project area.



- 54 -
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
6.1       The project would improve the income levels and physical well-being of about
2.8 million absolute poor inhabitants of southwest China. The main project benefits would
be (a) increased income levels by improving upland agricultural productivity through a
participatory approach, (b) better access to off-farm employment opportunities through the
development of TVEs and labor mobility, (c) improved access to social and other basic
services by increasing access to markets, safe drinking water, electric power, education,
health and other social services, (d) stabilization and reversal of upland environmental
destruction through land improvement and natural resource conservation works, and (e)
improved (i) poverty project design and implementation capacity and (ii) poverty
monitoring at the project and national levels.
6.2      Increased Income and Employment. The project would directly increase
beneficiary household incomes through (a) increasing production of grain, cash and tree
crops and livestock, and (b) providing greater opportunity for off-farm employment in local
TVEs and more distant job markets. Farm productivity increases would derive from the
combined effect of increased investment intensity, improved technology, and integrated
village development programs. Off-farm employment opportunities would be provided to
about 343,000 upland poor in rural enterprise within their counties (67,000 jobs), within
their provinces (162,000 jobs), and outside their provinces (114,000 jobs). These jobs
would provide annual net incomes per migrant of at least Y 355, Y 500, and Y 610
respectively. In combination with expected increases in on-farm family income, it is
estimated that average annual per capita income in the project areas would double to about
Y 690 (in constant 1992 yuan) at full development.
6.3      Improved Social and Other Basic Services. The planned investments in
social services would provide basic education, health and nutrition services. The project
would directly improve primary education for some 600,000 children in the project areas
(and indirectly benefit another 600,000 children outside project areas who would use
township school facilities upgraded by the project). Measures including tuition assistance
and in-school nutrition intervention would enable about 220,000 absolutely poor children
to enroll in schools and complete their primary education. Similarly, village health care
funds would greatly augment the delivery of basic health services to project area children
and adults. It is expected that infant mortality rates would be reduced from more than 10
percent at present to less than 4 percent at full development, and maternal mortality would
be reduced by more than 50 percent. The incidence of endemic diseases, such as iodine
deficiency and fluoridosis, would also be reduced by more than 50 percent. Gravel roads
would link 565 project villages to the existing network of county roads. In addition to
providing job opportunities to the local inhabitants, the construction of these rural roads



- 55 -
would provide isolated villages much improved access to markets, which will induce higher
levels of agricultural production and marketing. Provision of safe drinking water to some
663,000 project beneficiaries would reduce the incidence of diarrheal and other water-
related diseases, and would reduce the time and labor women are required to spend
supplying water for their families and livestock.
6.4       Enhanced Beneficiary and Community Participation. From the outset of
preparation, the project adopted a participatory strategy in which upland farmers helped
design a menu of options to address their development needs. By emphasizing integrated
village development, the project would aim at demonstrating and strengthening the capacity
of village organizations to manage their own resources. The integrated village production
system, once established, should become a key factor in sustaining the land and farmer
development. Particular attention has also been given to ensuring that ethnic minorities
and women are actively involved in the project and derive positive benefits.
6.5       Environ mental Protection. The project would have a positive effect on the
environment through subproject investments in land-terracing works, water storage,
agroforestry, and on-farm soil conservation works. Most importantly, project households
would take part in planting and maintenance of tree and bush species on more than 87,000
ha of steeply sloped hillsides and wastelands. Tree and bush species would better protect
the remaining soil on these fragile hills, and would provide greater financial retums over
the medium and longer term.  Together, these investments would reverse further
degradation of the fragile ecosystem, restore natural vegetative cover, reduce runoff and
soil loss, and improve soil fertility.
B. CosT AND RENT RECOVERY
6.6       Cost recovery for the land and farmer development component would involve
several elements. The cost of chemical fertilizer, agrochemicals, feed concentrates and
other agricultural and livestock inputs would be recovered by repayments from
beneficiaries. Some of the costs of research and training would be recovered either by fees
levied directly on beneficiaries or through taxes paid on project production. Services
provided by veterinary and other agricultural services support staff would be recovered
through service fees. The costs for the labor mobility component would be recovered
through wage deductibles paid by those laborers successfully placed under the project. The
cost recovery analysis of the representative village programs shows that, at present tax
rates, project charges would be sufficient to cover project costs with a recovery index of
102 percent. Rent recovery averages 45 percent at full development and 72 percent
discounted over the life of the project (Annex 12 .
C. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.7       Financial and economic analysis for the project was carried out based on
analysis of representative village programs (including labor mobility activities) and selected
representative TVE subprojects. The village programs are representive of the project
area's two major types of geographical and climatical conditions, viz., the karst range
region and the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau. Financial and economic rates of return were



- 56 -
estimated for the village programs and for individual project activities under the programs.
Farm model analysis was also carried out to assess the financial impact of the programs
on the farm households. The selected TVE investments include silk reeling, fruit
processing subprojects and manufacturing subprojects based on local mineral deposits. All
of the subprojects are labor intensive, reflecting the project's strong employment emphasis.
6.8       Flnancial Analysis. The analysis indicates that financial rates of return (FRR)
for the village programs are in the range of about 40 percent, with FRRs for various
activities ranging from 11 to 72 percent (Annex 12). The high financial returns of the
programs would provide adequate incentives for farmers to adopt the strategies proposed
by the project. Farm model analysis for the programs illustrates that with an average
investment of Y 589 per person (Y 446 excluding labor mobility), farmers' per capita
annual grain production would increase from approximately 215 kg at present to 300 kg
at full development. During the same period, it is expected that farmers' annual per capita
net income would double from approximately Y 370 to Y 770 in real terms (i.e., greatly
exceeding the per capita income target established by the 8-7 Plan). The farm model
analysis also illustrates that even in the early years of the project, net cash income
generated by the labor mobility, livestock and cash crop activities would be more than
enough to meet cash requirements of intensified grain production. In contrast to many
previous poverty reduction programs in southwest China, this project's village program
would be financially sustainable.
6.9       The financial analysis indicates that the FRR for the labor mobility component
is about 70 percent, even after assuming a full year postponement of the revenue stream,
very conservative estimates of the job retention rate (viz., 60 percent by the fourth year
of employment), and very generous living expenses (60 percent of the total wage income).
The strong FRR is consistent with the extreme wage rate differentials between poor rural
areas and more prosperous urban and rural areas (para 2.33), and strongly confirms project
support for labor mobility. For the TVE component, the FRRs range between 19 percent
to 21 percent. The relatively high returns would be more than adequate to meet interest
and loan repayment obligations and guarantee attractive rates of return to equity investors.
Sensitivity analysis shows that all FRRs are relatively robust to wide changes in input and
output prices (Annex 12).
6.10      Economic Analysis. Economic farm gate prices are calculated for tradable
commodities and inputs using border prices as reported in the Bank Group's commodity
price forecasts, adjusted for transportation and marketing margins. For nontradable items,
financial farm gate prices were assumed to represent economic prices where markets are
not regulated. The shadow wage rate for unskilled labor has been estimated at Y 4 per
day, reflecting high unemployment in the project area. Investment costs are expressed in
economic values through the application of conversion factors. AU economic values are
converted to local currency at the official exchange rate of Y 8.7. A project life of 20
years is assumed.
6.11      The project-wide economic analysis excludes the education, health, rural
infrastructure, institution building and poverty monitoring subcomponents and components
because it is impractical to quantify their benefits. However, these activities are essential



- 57 -
to the long term success and sustainability of the project and no doubt have very high
economic and social returns. Estimated ERRs for the projects's other activities are about
40 percent for the village programs, 86 percent for the labor mobility component, and 32
to 45 percent for the subprojects under the TVE development component. For the project
as a whole, the ERR is estimated at 36 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the
ERRs are relatively robust to wide changes in input and output prices (Annex 12, Table
11).
D. RISKS
6.12      The project addresses problems of chronic absolute poverty and natural
resource degradation in an area where previous single-sector interventions have not led to
sustainable reductions in poverty. The greatest strength of the project-its focussed
multisectoral rural development approach-comes at the inherent cost of greater than
average complexity and greater difficulties in implementation. This risk was acknowledged
prior to the outset of project preparation (para 1.19), and has been effectively countered
by (a) the project's unique organizational and management structure (para 1.20), (b) a
strong institution and implementation capacity building program (para 3.36), and (c) the
full involvement of the beneficiaries and village communities in the design and
implementation of the project (para 6.4). In addition, the project relies on an integrated
package of proven technologies and interventions. County level governments, where
leadership required for effective implementation is more sustainable due to the local
importance of the project, have extensive experience with these technologies and
interventions. Although the project would still be of above-average complexity, this risk
is acceptable since the project's design is so closely linked to the 8-7 Plan.
6.13      The individual project components also have specific associated risks. For the
land and farmer development component, there is a risk of slower than expected adoption
of improved farming practices, resulting in slower realization of economic and
environmental benefits. However, the improved techniques would (a) be integrated with
existing local farming practices, (b) require limited material inputs, and (c) be introduced,
in some cases, on a pilot basis. The project's emphasis on strengthening the extension
service through technical assistance and provision of required subject-matter specialists,
and training of farmer-technicians and demonstration households is also designed to
minimize these risks (para 3.29).
6.14      The labor mobility and TVE components face three risks: (a) institutional
coordination demands, (b) sudden changes in market conditions, and (c) weak monitoring
of worker conditions. To assist the joint entity formed by LGPR and MOL, a consultative
body would be established, involving the ACWF, the Public Security Bureau and the
Ministries of Construction and Industry, to address these risks. A pilot phase evaluation
would also identify operational issues such as remittance channels and worker treatment,
and make necessary adjustments (Annex 4, paras. 66-71). The diversified portfolio of
small scale TVEs has been developed with attention to commercial viability. While
specific TVEs face higher demand and price fluctuations (notably silk reeling), the majority
of products are intended for use in growing local and provincial markets.



- 58 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       Completion of project implementation agreements between the Borrower and
each of the project provinces would be a condition of effectiveness for the Credit and
Loan.
7.2       At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)  (i) arrangements acceptable to the Bank Group would be made for financing,
on a grant basis, the annual tuition fees for approximately 90,000 primary
school children per year, selected on the basis of criteria acceptable to the
Bank Group (para. 3.7); and (ii) cooperative health-care funds would be
established and thereafter maintained and adequately funded in all project
villages (para. 3.9);
(b)  (i) labor mobility would be strictly voluntary and undertaken only on the basis
of consultation procedures and relocation arrangements acceptable to the Bank
Group; (ii) a monitoring and reporting system satisfactory to the Bank Group,
focusing on fair treatment of workers and workplace safety, would be finalized
and implemented at the county, provincial and national levels no later than
September 15, 1995; and (iii) commencing September 15, 1995, LGPR would
prepare and submit a detailed labor mobility component monitoring report to
the Bank Group by March 15 and September 15 of each year (para. 3.14);
(c)  participating project enterprises would be eligible for financing under the
project only upon agreement with Beihai, Nanning or Fangcheng municipality
that the enterprise would adopt a business development plan providing that at
least 70 percent of the full-time jobs created in those enterprises would be
reserved for the absolute poor from the project's upland counties (para. 3.18);
(d)  (i) Beihai Municipality would undertake a program of site and building sales
and leases for BPREZ satisfactory to the Bank Group; (ii) funding would be
made available only against expenditures for buildings that would be rented or
sold when acceptable prelease or presale agreements, as appropriate, have
been concluded with respect to at least 50 percent of the floor space of the
building concerned; and (iii) the low-income housing provided under the
project would be designed and constructed according to criteria satisfactory to
the Bank Group, and exclusively rented for a period not less than 10 years
following completion to migrant workers from poor areas, of which not less
than 70 percent would be workers from the project counties in Guangxi (para.
3.19);



- 59 -
(e)  any dams improved under the project exceeding 10 meters in height or
2.5 million cubic meters in storage volume would be subject to dam safety
review, and all dams rehabilitated or constructed under the project would
subsequently be maintained and inspected periodically in accordance with
sound engineering practices, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
Group (para. 3.23);
(f)  project farmers would receive exclusive land use rights (i) for a term of not
less than 50 years for wastelands and other lands they plant to perennial crops
under the project (para. 3.25); and (ii) for a term of not less than 30 years for
existing cropland they develop or improve under the project (para. 3.28);
(g)  the provincial EPBs would (i) determine which project TVEs would require
effluent treatment facilities, (ii) review and approve the final designs of the
necessary effluent treatment facilities prior to beginning construction, and
(iii) supervise implementation and maintenance of such effluent monitoring and
treatment systems (para. 3.34);
(h)  that (i) all training, including study tours, and research under the project
would be carried out in accordance with training and research programs
agreed with the Bank Group, and (ii) WBPO would provide an annual plan to
the Bank Group by December 1 of each year that would include a list of
proposed research, training, study tours and technical assistance for the
coming year (para. 3.37);
(i)   WBPO and project entities would maintain consolidated accounts of all
components for annual auditing by auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and
that the audited accounts, including the Special Account, together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months of
the close of each financial year (para. 3.56);
(j) pesticides to be provided under the project would be approved by the Bank
Group and would be stored and handled in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 3.57);
(k)  project activities would comply with environmental standards satisfactory to
the Bank Group, necessary mitigation actions would be taken, and actions
taken to fulfill the recommendations contained in the Environmental
Assessment Report would be included in the annual work programs forwarded
to the Bank Group and would be implemented (para. 3.57);
(1) (i) all proposed land acquisition required for project activities would be
reviewed by county, prefectural or provincial land administration bureaus in
accordance with existing national regulations; (ii) the existing land
administration system for valuation of land and other assets affected by the
project would be used, with plans for compensation to be in accordance with



- 60 -
project would be used, with plans for compensation to be in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group; and (iii) land
acquisition and compensation activities undertaken due to project activities
would be monitored by the PMOs and included in the semiannual progress
reports to be provided to the Bank Group (para. 3.59);
(m) WBPO would be staffed at levels, and maintained with functions and
responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 4.3);
(n)  provincial PMOs would (i) be staffed at levels, and maintained with functions
and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group; and (ii) prepare and furnish
a detailed annual budget and work plan, including training, acceptable to the
Bank Group by December 1 of each year, for project implementation the
following year (para. 4.7);
(o)  (i) MOF would onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to the governments of
the three project provinces at 2 percent interest rate per year with a repayment
period of 20 years, including a 6-year grace period; (ii) MOF would onlend
the IBRD loan at the IBRD rate directly to Guangxi Province with a
repayment period of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period; (iii) the foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the provincial governments and the central
PADO (for the interprovincial labor mobility component to be implemented
directly by WBPO); and (iv) onlending to TVEs and project enterprises in
Beihai, Fangcheng and Nanning municipalities (excluding enterprises
responsible for labor mobility activities) would be at interest rates no less than
the prevailing rate on ADBC loans for similar purposes (para. 4.13); and,
(p) WBPO and the provincial PMOs would undertake a mid-term review of the
project jointly with the Bank Group by June 30, 1997 (para. 4.15).
7.3       Subject to the above agreements and condition, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of $47.5 million for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate, and an IDA Credit of SDR 128.6 million ($200
million equivalent) on standard terms, with 35 years' maturity, to the People's Republic
of China.



- 61 -                                                   Annex 1
China: Southwest Povaty Reduction Project
ProvinciaL County, and Project Area Baic Statoisia
Table 1: Demoashic Statistia
County Total                                             Project Area
#of      # of         Rural   Total Total achm Project Villg         thip total   Project   Tlhip total Project
T'ship   villages    population   tihip   villaes   Admnin    Naturl    Hhiolds    H'holds   population population
(1)     (2)        (3)          (4)     (5)       (6)       (7)        (S)        (9)         (10)        (11)
Gua 
Mashang         15       148       439400         7       72        35       993      41,062      18,396     197,420       88,507
Tiandeng        15       123        373700        7       69        30       810       40,972     19,221     212,811       73,891
Pingguo         15       169       354400         6       68        49       830       34,541     16,548     168,806       78,319
Debao           13       187       320000         9       100       42       547       36,648     17,282     178,380       79,689
Jingxi          24       290        524600       10       110       62       952       40,732     14,167     214,925       71,857
Napo            12       130        177200        6        78       45       904       20,329     12,299     113,899       65,453
Linyun          10       109        169300        5        51       43       739       16,089     13,665      86,163       67,446
Fengshan        I 1       97        157900        5       36        34       958       12,463     11,984      59,720       55,667
Donglan         28       148       256100        10       70        53    1,387       23,416      15,889     110,538       78,220
Bamna           12       103       208300         5       35        35       789       10,356     11,015      53,772       52,305
Duan            22       131        586200       11       131       37     1,210      62,618      18,554     296,040       88,065
Dahua           19       153       354400        10       92        50     1,145      43,831      17,628     196,150       79,156
Sutotal        196     1.788     3.921.500       91      912       515    11,264     3f3S057    186.648    1,888,624      878.575
Gulzhou
Qinglong        13       185        227000        7        96       56                 27280      13,762     119,300       57,800
Zhengeng        13       280        280000        6       140       60                 38170      12,902      139,900      53,800
Wangmo          15       310       233000         7       134       60                 17890      14,553      92,600       60,833
Ceheng          14       185        180000        7       92        35                 21549       9,523      97,700       40,000
Luodian         26       271       266900        13       119       52                 21382      11,376     113,300       47,550
Changphun       17       147        199300        8        56       49                 15864      10,491      77,200       43,960
Puding          11       330       337600         5       108       53                 27482      13,604     115,200       57,000
Guanling        14       241        264800        7       124       55                 25887      14,254     126,800       59,440
Ziyun           12       223        279200        6       124       67                 30774      14,847      150,100      61,910
Zhijin          32       582        773000       16      281        56                100100      23,341     403,000       97,523
Dafang          36       506        806000       15      217        89                 82282      14,354     341,400       60,000
Liuzhi          19       394        452000        9       148       74                 39618      14,094     162,900       59,195
Panxian         37       746        895000       11      216       120                 49793      29,742     216,400      127,733
Subtotal       259      4400      5193800       117     IS         826         _      498071     196843      2155800      826744
Yunnan
Yongshan        18       134       353905         9       67        46       963       48,916     29,902     185,367      121,640
Yanjin          12        78       307455         5       29        21       715       29,385     15,978     125,429       88,216
Daguan          11        77       219807         5       34        34       748       20,169     20,169      87,582       87,582
Yiliang         18       135       426207         9       60        37       823       48,376     26,916     207,783      117,811
Zhenxiong       35       239       1004343       17       126       S0    1,656        89,052     37,780     496,100      316,690
Ludian          14        82       306378         7       40        30       736       32,442     24,292     142,284       99,307
Qiaojia         19       ISO        456160        9        S8       38       813       53,276     20,160     226,590       94,700
Luquan          IS       194       414237         9       115       83     1,680       52,209     20,909     233,402       94,093
Wuding          13       127       238000         7       63        41       677       21,374     14,087      95,920       63,680
Dongchuan       14       148       221260         5       47        47       383       16,927     11,009      58,120       47,125
Subtotal       172     1394      3947.752        82      66        457    9.194       412.126    221,102    1.S58.577    1.1308.44



-62 -                                                  Annex 1
China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
ProvinciaL County, and Project Area Basic Statistics:
Table 2:  Access to Social Services and Rural Infrastructure
Primary    Primary    Adult   Matrnal                 Iodine    Per capita  No. villages   No. village
School   comple.  Illiteracy   mortality    IMR    deficiency   medical exp.  access    access to
NER (%) a/   rate (%/)     (%/0)     (%)  (%) b/ incident (%)        (Yuan)      to roads   electricity
Gunne
Mashang              81.4      67.3       11.3       0.7      6.9         7.5          0.00        47.0        61.0
Tiandeng             82.8      71.0       27.5       1.8       3.9         1.5         0.96        45.0        24.0
Pingguo              74.1      65.0       13.3       1.5       3.5        2.4          1.91        36.0        62.0
Debao                83.6      63.6       26.3       4.2       7.3        10.9         1.11        60.0        44.0
Jingxi               93.0      66.6       26.0                0.9         0.9          1.06        45.0        20.0
Napo                 89.0      59.4       30.4       2.3      6.4         4.9          4.47        31.0         4.0
Linyun               79.6      59.4       20.4       3.4      7.1         10.7         1.52        23.0        36.0
Fengshan             84.4      68.1       25.9       4.7      9.5         0.2          0.12        18.0        18.0
Donglan              70.6      64.6       18.1       5.0      6.8         5.8          1.77        32.0        40.0
Barna                90.6      56.1       52.0       6.7      6.0        22.9          2.40        22.0        16.0
Duan                 89.3      78.8       19.7       3.2      2.4         0.3          1.85        84.0        65.0
Dahua                81.6      71.0       24.1       4.1      4.2         0.4          1.85        26.0        25.0
Sutotal              83.1      68.1       22.5       3.2      5.4         5.7          1.52       469.0       415.0
Guizhou
Qinglong             82.2      55.0       12.1       0.6      7.6         0.3          1.82         27          24
Zhengeng             74.1      30.2       30.4       0.7      10.6        2.1          1.50         88          41
Wangmo               62.4      31.0       14.4       0.8      10.9        1.6          0.88         17           3
Ceheng               79.6      38.5       59.4       0.7      6.9         18.4         1.55         50          38
Luodian              68.0      49.1       91.0       0.7      13.4       11.2          1.00         107         41
Changshun            74.4      35.0       37.2       0.5      6.7          1.3         1.16         48          34
Puding               80.5      56.7        9.1       0.4      10.7        2.4          0.20         51          51
Guanling             78.5      53.5       25.7       0.1       9.6        18.9         1.52         62          58
Ziyun                65.3      42.0       33.3       0.5      11.5        8.3          0.33         39          22
Zhijin               76.9      60.0       13.3                11.0                     1.17         114         115
Dafang               90.6      47.3       24.3       0.5      11.7        0.7          1.04         106         99
Liuzhi               88.7      42.0        8.8                8.7                      1.75         100         45
Panxian              80.3      65.0       34.4       0.4      2.7         3.1          0.04         159        121
Subtotal             79.1      46.6       26.8       0.5      8.6         6.2          1.00        968         692
Yunnn
Yongshan             92.2      52.3       68.0       0.3      8.5                      1.20         28           14
Yanjin               93.0      42.0       52.4       0.6      9.3         0.1          3.28          8           16
Daguan               85.5      51.0       44.1       0.2       1.3        0.0          3.58          18         22
Yiliang              83.0      26.8       58.5       0.3       1.2        0.9          0.78         23          25
Zhenxiong            88.9      44.2       35.9       0.2       1.7        0.1          2.63         69          48
Ludian               84.9      48.4       34.9       0.1      6.4         0.2          3.10          17          0
Qiaojia              89.0      50.0       63.0       0.1       1.8                     0.51          16         10
Luquan               95.1      45.4       24.1       0.1       1.0                    23.32         83          78
Wuding               95.1      33.3       41.2       0.1       1.0                     3.57         35          41
Dongchuan            87.2      61.0       50.2       0.9      3.8         0.8          0.01          15         30
Subtotal             87.4      45.4       47.1       0.3      3.6         0.2          4.20        312         284
Note:    a! NER: net enrollment rate. NER= (those inthe age group who are in schoolpopulation of school age group)*100%.
b/ IMR: infant and child mortality rate. It is defined as the ratio of children died to total number of children under age five.



- 63 -                                                    Annex 1
China: Southwest Povety Reduction Projed
Table 3:   Pmed Ar Baic Producticn and Income Statistic
Annual cash    Livetodc              % popula.    % popula.
Land Area    Cutivated    Grain sown   Grain Prod.    /tr eecrops  weat prod  Per capita   with grain    below
(ha)     Are (ha)     aea(h)       (00 ton)    ar  (ha)          (ton)  net inome   < 150 kg   poverty line
GuanCi
Mashang            109,032       10,972        18,285       32,280        3,269         4,338        297       66.5         70.1
Tiandeng           126,745       13,466        23,013       50,425        3,845         3,177        288       98.7         95.5
Pingguo             98,000        8,697        14,662       43,664        2,081         2,070        290       32.4         41.1
Debao              127,436       13,415        24,122       42,871        3,073         5,384        282       20.4         75.3
Jingx              131,128        14,362       29,061       59,674        2,051         4,244        241       22.5         90.9
Napo               122,323        7,119        10,175       25,141        2,058         2,175        287       78.8         80.5
Linyun             107,124        5,198         9,312       17,528        2,613         1,608        266       33.7         86.6
Fengshan            64,900        4,133         7,959       13,779          714         1,458        259       43.9         71.4
Donglan            123,450        5,651        10,871       19,599        2,418         3,478        295       31.8         65.6
Bama                65,751        2,587         5,266        9,846        1,461         1,427        246       41.0         97.3
Duan               210,330        17,593       35,966       52,096        2,490        14,581        257       58.3         63.1
Dahua              145,200        9,741        18,623       33,68S        3,001         5,795        221       84.1         92.7
Sutotal           .431,419      112,934       207,315      400.591       29.074        49.735        270       54.0         73.9
Guizhou
Qinglong            74,702        6,316         9,169       22,652        2,100         1,792        174       95.4         98.4
Zhengeng            65,824        8,180        10,270       29,103        3,301         2,011        196       63.7         80.6
Wangmo             115,259       10,660        10,114       22,949        2,501         1,528        193       10.6         99.0
Ceheng             120,747        6,529         8,585       21,286         1,471        2,805        178       90.8         94.8
Luodian            146,776        8,216         8,284       29,846        2,567         7,730        245       67.4        193.5
Changshun           60,789        5,899         7,697       22,034        2,477         1,589        233       22 8         78.8
Puding              44,972        7,114        10,850       24,900        2,626         1,681        223       65.2         92.1
Guanling            80,574        7,922        10,524       33,482        3,574         2,934        280       27.7         92.2
Ziyun              124,334        11,093       13,745       41,831        3,885         3,429        175       38.6         82.5
Zhijin             149,860       64,414        57,518       72,728        18,825       38,602        259       17.4         89.6
Dafang             140,464       21,547        54,874       67,487        11,662       16,352        290       55.1         82.7
Liuzhi              83,511       24,492        15,774       43,023         5,301        2,947        281       57.2         53.7
Panxian            122,482        11,681       17,399       47,028        2,897         6,732        185       46.6        103.1
Subtotal         1,330.294      194.063       234.S03      478.349       gm18          90            224       47.1         92.6
Yunnan
Yongshan           116,017       13,788        15,924       31,432         1,308        2,360        138       42.1         65.3
Yanjin              57,279        6,769         9,720       16,247        2,082                      181       66.0         83.7
Daguan              74,388       19,023         9,139       19,463        2,231         2,783        196       79.0         89.4
Yiliang            100,694       15,794        12,328       20,664         1,784        2,475        157       63.7         87.5
Zhenxiong          132,955       21,293        32,580       49,218        5,401         5,583        140       50.4         56.9
Ludian              65,609        8,393         7,083       26,185          676         2,305        103       44.4         99.8
Qiaojia             80,397        7,554         8,395       17,917          215         1,412        108       73.8         93.4
Luquan             248,382       19,350        18,015       62,617        6,594         6,270        201       43.2        100.0
Wuding              94,752        6,975         7,103       19,826          957         1,591        192       20.0         91.4
Dongchuan           60,250        5,510         3,684        9,513          564         1,071        206       94.5         100.0
Subtotal         1.03072723                   123.971      273.l01       211512.850                  In        55.3         79.7



-64-                                                 Anex 1
China: Southwefft Poverty Reduction Project
Table 4: Climatolouical Data for the Proied Areu
TMperatur (OC)
Mean    Absolute    Absolute       Average      Average    Balance   Sunshine    No-fog     Relaive
Te mare    Minimum    Maximum   Rain Fall (mm)  Evapomion        (mm)    (hous)        dayr  Humidity (%)
Guangxl
Mashang              21.6        -0.7       40.1         1473.9       1602.3    -123.9    1613.0     349.0         72.0
Tiandeng             20.1        -2.2       36.0         1483.5       1333.9     149.6    1597.9     357.0          77.0
Pingguo              21.5        -1.3       40.9         1374.2       1572.6    -193.4    1682.6     361.0         81.0
Debso                19.4        -0.3       37.2         1464.7       1368.6      96.1    1506.9     332.0         79.0
lingxi               19.1        -1.9       36.6         1606.0       1507.0      99.0    1521.0     333.0          80.0
Napo                 18.8        -4.3       35.5         1421.7       1394.3      27.4    1411.2     327.0          80.0
Linyun               20.4        -1.8       37.4         1685.3       1514.4     170.9    1336.5     343.0          77.0
Fengshan             19.8        -1.5       36.6         1544.1       1402.9     141.2    1518.5     335.0          77.0
Donglan              22.0        -2.4       39.2         1185.9       1268.4     -82.5    1481.8     358.0          79.0
Bama                 20.1        -2.0       38.0         1669.9       1466.0     203.9    1531.3     338.0          79.0
Duan                 21.3        -1.2       39.0         1731.3       1645.1      86.2    1395.5     362.0          72.0
Dahua                21.3        -2.4       39.6         1731.3       1645.1      86.2    1395.5     363.0          72.0
Avere          18.8 -21.95       -4.3       40.9         1531.0       1476.8      54.2    1499.3     346.5         77.1
Guizhou
Qinglong             13.9        -6.2       33.4         1538.9       1205.3     333.6    1440.2     293.0         82.0
Zhengeng             16.6        -4.2       32.5         1411.8       1345.7      66.1    1549.2     334.0         81.0
Wangmo               19.0        9.8        31.9        1233.3       1399.4    -166.1    1420.4      341.0         30.0
Ceheng               19.2        -2.3       40.0         1289.6      1461.4    -171.8    1491.7      361.0         79.0
Luodian              21.4       -2.1        39.0        1430.0       1321.0      109.0    1496.3     360.0         77.0
Changahun            16.7        -8.5       34.1         1462.3       1142.0     320.3    1022.2     274.0         80.0
Puding               15.1       -11.1       34.7         1396.9      1340.3       56.1    1202.0     289.0         80.0
Guanling             16.3        -6.1       35.3         1328.4       1283.1      45.3    1352.5     296.0         71.0
Ziyun                15.3        -5.8       33.6         1337.1       1551.0    -213.9    1440.6     288.0         79.0
Zhijin               13.9       -21.1       33.5         1438.7       1415.3      23.4    1214.8     292.0         80.0
Dafang               11.8        -9.3       31.0         1162.7       977.0      185.7    1335.5     254.0         84.0
iuzhi                14.5        -5.6       34.1        1476.0       1430.0       46.0    1252.4     276.0         81.0
Pandan               15.1        -7.1       34.0         1390.8       1591.5    -200.7    1632.7     273.0         76.0
Average              16.1        -6.1       34.4         1376.7       1343.3      33.3    1373.1     302.4         79.2
Yunnan
Yongphan             16.4       -13.3       20.6         783.6        1234.7    -451.1    1277.2     313.0         74.0
Yanjin               17.0        -2.7       37.7         1232.6       1009.7     222.9     965.7     328.0         81.8
Daguan               14.9        -6.4       40.3         983.8        1108.5    -124.7    1002.7     309.0         80.0
Yiliang              12.8        -1.1       41.7         961.9        1202.0    -240.1    1131.1     256.0         81.5
Zhemxiong            11.3       -11.9       33.4         931.8        1056.8    -125.0    1307.8     217.0         84.0
Ludian               11.4       -11.5       33.0         775.3        1474.6    -699.3    1605.7     234.0         77.0
Qisojia              21.1        -0.4       42.7          809.0      2671.0   -1862.0    2174.6      347.0         5S.0
Luquan               15.6        -6.5       33.3         947.8        1863.9    -916.1    2323.4     234.0         74.0
Wuding               15.1        -0.1       22.5         999.7       2178.5   -1178.8    2326.2      235.0         74.0
Dongchuan            20.2        -7.5       40.9         700.5       3604.1   -2903.6    2315.8      316.0         55.0
Averae        11.3-21.1         -6.1        34.6         912.6        1740.4    -827.8    1643.0     279.4         73.9



- 65 -                              Annex 2
Education Subcomponent
Introduction
1.    The development of human capital through improving the delivery of primary
education is a vital ingredient for effective poverty reduction in China. High enrollment
and completion rates in primary education are clearly associated with increases in
productivity, income and growth in developing countries. Many studies show that
education (plus experience) is one of the most important statistical determinants of workers'
rewards in the labor market. Furthermore, there is a synergistic interaction between
investments in basic education and improvements in other important correlates of poverty.
Enhanced education leads to improved health. The education of girls is particularly
important because the more educated a woman, the lower her fertility. Female education
also results in higher child survival rates. The more educated the parents, particularly the
mother, the lower is maternal mortality and the healthier is the child. In addition, the
enhanced provision of basic education results in greater adoption rates of new agricultural
technology.
2.    Overall, China has made tremendous progress in enhancing the educational status of
its population. However, progress has been uneven and there are significant areas of China
where educational attainment is very low. This project, by supporting well-targeted
investments in primary education, is assisting the Government in its integrated approach to
reduce poverty. This subcomponent would enhance the provision of primary education to
the poor in project areas through: primary school renovation and construction; supporting
tuition assistance and in-school nutritional supplements for poor students; the provision of
textbooks, instructional equipment and furniture, and teacher and management training. By
the end of the project, primary school enrollment and completion rates would increase by
10 - 20 percent.
Sector Background
3.    Compared with other developing countries, China's success in providing a
comprehensive schooling system to its population has been remarkable. Enrollment rates in
the first nine years of schooling are higher than in most other lower income countries with
more than 95 percent of the 6 - 11 age cohort enrolled in primary school and over 60
percent of the 12-15 age cohort in lower secondary school. As a result, literacy rates are
higher than in most countries with similar levels of economic development. On a national
level, it is estimated that the literacy rate for those 15 years of age and older is over 80
percent and is close to 93 percent among the 15 to 25 year age group. However, these
impressive national level statistics conceal severe regional inequities in educational
attainment.



- 66 -                                    Annex 2
4.     In 1986, China passed a "Compulsory Education Law" to mandate universal basic
education. 12 Under this law, local governments were given education finance
responsibilities to manage their budgets and were encouraged to use local resources more
efficiently. Consequently, at the national level, while the share of total education
expenditure to total expenditure has remained roughly the same during the past decade, the
share of the non-center contribution to education has increased and the level of
contributions from the center has declined (Figure 1). While the goal of compulsory
education in most large cities and coastal areas has been achieved, due to severe poverty
and thus low levels of local govermment and private resources in rural areas, the educational
status of poor children has remained deplorable. Therefore, in the project areas poverty has
diminished sources for education finance and reinforced a vicious cycle: poverty results in
illiteracy which, in tum, reduces access of the poor to better income eaming opportunities.
Figure I
Share of Education Expenditure
0.2
a 0.15                                        - -  _ W + totia edu. exp.Aotal
0.15                                ~~~~~~~~~~~exp.
o 1                     3-- Non-center
contribudon/total edu.
i0.05                                              a  Center edu. exp.tot
o __________________________._.  .          exp.
I-
YSear
Education Issues Within Project Provinces
5.     Due to insufficient access and inadequate quality, the project areas experience low
enrollment and completion rates with educational attainment almost always worse among
minorities and females. The average net enrollment rate (NER) in project townships is
Universal education refers to six years of primary education plus three years of junior secondary education.
2 The State Education Commission (SEdC) recently announced its plan to implement the universal basic education
program by year 2000. The phased program would enable 85% of the school age population to complete primary
school and enroll in junior middle school. The remaining 15% of the people- living in poverty-stricken areas with poor
education facilities - will have a lower education target: three to six years in primary school.



- 67 -                                  Annex 2
about ten percent below the provincial average. (Table 1.1) 3  Because township averages
include at least one third of better-off villages outside project areas, they overestimate the
enrollment rate of school children in project areas. In addition, school enrollment rate
estimates tend to include everyone on the first day of class even though they might not
return. This practice consistently overestimates the number of poor and minorities
attending school. Of the 600 poorest households (where 78 percent are minorities) in our
project areas, the average enrollment rate is 55 percent (65 percent among boys and 45
percent among girls).
6.    Along with low enrollment, the project areas experience low completion rates.
Completion rates in provinces where the project is occurring are about 10 percent below the
national average (except for Guangxi) (Table 1.1). Among the poorest project townships,
more than one half of the children who enrolled in primary school had failed to finish the
primary cycle. These numbers tend to overestimate the completion rate due to the
inclusion of non-project villages. Furthermore, SSB survey data indicates that in the poorest
project areas about 39 percent of the 7-15 age cohort have never enrolled in primary
school; of these children about 60 percent are girls. This same source of data demonstrates
that among the 13-15 age cohort, only 20 percent of the boys and 5 percent of the girls
graduated from primary school.
7.    Low completion rates underscore high repetition and dropout rates among rural poor
particularly among and girls and minorities. For example, a feasibility study for the project
in the province of Guishou suggests that 80 percent of school age dropouts in the project
area are girls. Although the lack of statistics on minorities makes it difficult to establish
more than an anecdotal case, SSB data indicates that upland minorities have lower school
enrollment and completion rates. Given the above, it is not surprising that in the project
areas approximately 35 percent of the population is illiterate. Seventy percent of which
reside in the poorest, remote or minority areas and 78 percent of which are women.
NER = (those in the age group who are in school / population of school age group)* I 00%.
4 Completion rate = the percentage of those who start school in Ist grade reach graduation.
Graduation rate in stead of the completion rate is used by SEdC as one of the indicators to measure the degree
of universalization of primary education. However, graduation rate only refer to percentage of children in 5th
grade who pass the graduation exams, and hence does not account for repetition and dropouts.



- 68 -                                        Annex 2
Table 1.1
Provincial and Project Area Primary Education - Basic Statistics
Southwest China (1992)
National           Guangxi         Guizhou              Yunnan
PA       PTA           PA      PTA       PA      PTA
Enrollment b/                          97.7       97.2       83.1         92.4    79.1      96.3     87.4
Girls as percent of total            46.6        45.3       36.2        43.0    33.0    42.8        32.0
Completion rate                        81.8       88.2       68.1         71.4    56.4    70.7       45.4
Rate of certified teachers             84.7       82.0       48.7         78.9    57.7    72.5       56.5
Student/teacher ratio                  22.1       21.5        17.7        26.1     28.0    23.4      22.0
Per student books c/                    1.5        0.8         0.4         0.5      0.4      0.6      0.3
Dangerous school buildings              2.0        8.3        10.8        10.6    21.1       2.6      9.2
Illiteracy rate d/                     21.0          x          x            x                         32
Note:
a/ PA = provincial average; PTA = project township average.
b/ Enrollment rate for children of school-age, which may be defined from age 7 to I1,
or d to 12 in different areas.
c/ The average number of books owned per student. The standard set by SEdC is six books
per student in primary schools.
d/ Illiteracy rate = Illiterate population (age 15+) /total population (age 15+ ).
d/ Source: SSB 1990 census data, China Statistical Yearbook (CSY) 1993.
e/ CSY 1993 and provincial proposals for the project.
8.      Given the low  level of educational attainment in poor areas it is not surprising that
access to basic education is problematic. Poverty combined with annual school fees are a
major hinderance to basic education for those in the project areas. The average school fee
of approximately Y70 per child is often prohibitive for families with annual per capita
income less than Y300.5 Furthermore, there are often additional costs, such as boarding
and transportation for families to incur. In Guangxi, approximately 71 percent of school age
children do not enroll or drop out of primary school because parents cannot afford the
direct costs associated with school enrollment. In addition to school fees and expenses for
boarding and transportation, families also perceive an opportunity cost in the form of
foregone household labor of children who are in school. This issue is particularly relevant
as an obstacle to girls education where there is often a perceived irrelevance of primary
school curricula to women's employment possibilities.
B By the Education Law, no tuition can be collected at any public primary schools. However, schools charge
fees primarily for textbooks and to cover part of their operating expenses.



- 69 -                                    Annex 2
9.     Another issue hindering access of those in project areas to education is the
insufficient number and dilapidated condition of school facilities. Little money exists for
facility construction and renovation. The lack of complete schools (grades 1 - 6) and
teaching points at the village level often deter enrollment of children. Furthermore, in most
administrative villages, students attend shelterless schools or ones that are poorly
maintained and ill-equipped. Most of the schools were either built in the 1970s or
converted from grain storage and warehouses and have not been maintained or repaired. At
the township centers, complete primary schools (grades 1 to 6) often exist. However,
facilities in these areas are often inadequate and there is a perennial shortage of classrooms
and boarding space, and there are more than fifty students in classrooms built for half that
number. As a result, students often deter enrollment. In addition, low maintenance and
little renovation has resulted in the dilapidated conditions of existing township schools.
10.    Along with access issues, the delivery of basic primary education suffers from
inadequate teacher training. In Guizhou, due to the shortage of qualified teachers, about 51
percent of primary school teachers are hired as either locally supported (Minban6) or
substitute (Daike') teachers. Compared to regular (Gongban8.) teachers, Minban teachers
have lower pay scales and no retirement benefits; however, they usually enjoy a minimum
income of more than 100 yuan per month (about half of which is paid from county budget
and the rest by township funds), a significant cash income in poor areas. Starting from
early 1980s, local government stopped recruiting minban teachers. The number of Minban
teachers has decreased due to teacher attrition and upgrade to Gongban. Therefore,
substitute teachers account for increasing share of the non-gongban teachers. When salaries
are low, these teachers are likely to supplement their incomes by other pursuits, such as
working on their own lands or running small shops as sideline activities, a practice that
increases teachers' absenteeism and shorten effective teaching hours.
6 In our project areas, before June 1993, half of a Minban teacher's salary was paid by the county budget,
the other half was paid by township budget and collective levies. Since most poor townships were unable to
pay their teachers, counties have taken their full responsibilities in Minban teachers' salary payment since
June 1993.
' Due to local governments' inability to finance teachers salaries, "affordable" teachers are hired under
contracts to substitute regular teachers with half the salary, and perhaps less than half the experience and
training. These teachers are usually paid by village collective levies. Their salaries range from Y50-70
monthly.
S some minban teachers have changed their status to gongban after they pass qualify examinations since
early 1980s, and this has greatly encouraged minban teachers to pursuit professional improvement mostly on
their own initiatives.



- 70 -                              Annex 2
11.   Most of these teachers are lower-secondary school graduates; and some did not even
graduate from primary school. Not only do they lack the background knowledge of subject
matter, but also the academic background to acquire adequate teaching skills. In addition,
teachers in minority areas often have inadequate training in bilingual education and thus
further discourage retention of the minority students.  Insufficient number of teachers and
low quality of teaching often reinforce the negative perceptions about the value of
education, and hence further reduce enrollment rate.
Table 1.2 Primary Education:
Teachers by Sex, Rural, Minorities, Level of Education, 1993
National    Yunnan       Guizhou     Guangxi
Total Teachers ('000)       5527        175         167          196
Female (percent of total)    44.5     32           32.2        33.2
Rural (percent of total)  71.8        81.6         80.0        84.0
Minority (percent of total)   8.6                  36          40.5
percent hired by          37.0                     51          46.5
communities
Level of Education
Tech. secondary school and                         53          79.6
above (percent)
Below tech. secondary                             47           20.4
(percent)
Source: SEdC and Provincial SEdCs of Yunnan, Guizhou and Guangxi.
Subcomponent Project Description
12.  In the project areas, widespread poverty has diminished the pool of local government
resources available to provide basic education and the ability of parents to pay even the
modest of tuition. This combined with the perceived opportunity cost of sending children to
school has resulted in difficult access for the absolute poor, particularly minorities and girls,
and the low quality of those education services delivered.
13.   The education subcomponent would increase the access and quality of basic
education for school-aged children in project areas. This would occur through: (a)
upgrading school facilities, (b) providing tuition and boarding assistance and a seasonal



- 71 -                                 Annex 2
school nutrition program, (c) eliciting community support through covenants in production
contracts under the project and promotion campaigns; (d) providing adequate textbooks and
instructional equipment; (e) training of teachers and education system managers; (f)
providing salaries for additional teachers; (g) adopting an affirmative action approach to
recruit female and minority teachers; and (h) institution building and technical assistance to
enhance ability of local education offices to implement the project. Education activities
would be integrated with other project initiatives, such as the agricultural development and
health components, to increase effectiveness, sustainability and local commitment to
universal education.
14.   Key indicators, including enrollment and completion rates - particularly those of
girls, and the rate of certified teachers, should reach county average at the end of the
project. Provincial education bureaus would assist county bureaus in the design and
implementation of the component. The component investment is about Y217 million over
five years, representing 7.8 percent of total project base costs. A distribution of project
investment would be school facility upgrading (49.7 percent), assistantships and the
nutrition program (28.6 percent), books and equipment (10 percent), teacher and
management training (8 percent), and project implementation and technical assistance (3.7
percent). The main features of each component are described below.
Facilities Upgrading (Base cost Y108 million)
15.   Additional Teaching Points. The lack of village primary education facilities make
teaching points a high investment priority. To increase primary school enrollment and
improve school attendance, particularly that of girls, building more teaching points or
completing those incomplete village schools is an effective response, provided that schools
are located within children's walking distance (within 2 km). About Y57.2 million (base
cost) would be used to rehabilitate or construct about 2,400 school points. Each teaching
point would accommodate at least 5 students up to grade 3.
16.   Upgrading Village Center Schools. About Y48.7 million would be used to finance
civil works such as renovation, rehabilitation, and urgently needed new construction of 320
center schools in administrative villages.9 About 40 percent of the funds would be used to
repair and renovate existing facilities and about 60 percent for construction of new
additional classrooms, student dormitories, sanitary facilities, and teachers' office and
dormitories.
9 A typical village center school often includes a two-story building with 6 to 8 classrooms, student and
teacher dormitories, sanitary facility, and a simply equipped area for physical education.



- 72 -                                 Annex 2
Assistance to Students (base cost Y62.15 million)
17.   Tuition Assistance. One important lesson is that building more schools does not
guarantee higher enrollment and retention rates. To encourage perennially out-of-school
children to seek education is at least as important as increasing the supply of schools.
School fees often account for one quarter of the family's annual income. For these
children, reducing direct costs to education is an important step in increasing educational
attainment.
18.   About Y38.16 million (base cost) would be used for assisting students with fees and
textbooks. The main selection criteria for the recipients is that their annual family per
capita income or grain consumption is below the average in project areas. Those from
families disadvantaged by chronic illness, illiteracy, or natural disasters, or with disabled
family member(s), would be given priority. Girls would account for no less than 50
percent of those selected. The program would be phased out over six years'". It is
estimated that about 540,000 children/years would be waived for 60-100 percent of school
fees. During project implementation (including pilot projects in 1995), 5 percent, 30
percent, 25 percent, 20 percent, 10 percent, and 10 percent of the target children would
enroll in the program. A transparent and effective implementation program would be
developed based on clearly defined criteria to ensure appropriate targeting.
19.   Community participation would play a central role. School teachers and natural
village leaders would coordinate in selecting recipients. The selection would be balanced
and checked by township education and project offices, and submitted to the county
education project office for approval. The final selection would be posted at local schools
and would be subject to evaluation by local villagers. The county education project office
would deliver the textbooks to schools based on the approved name-lists or reimburse
schools with fees when schools ensure the enrollment and retention of these children.
20.   In-School Supplementary Nutrition Program. Another important reason for the
deferred enrollment among children from absolute poor families was the lack of food
during the hunger season (March to May). An in-school supplementary nutrition program
to avert increased malnutrition during the interharvest would be cost-effective in alleviating
short-term hunger and its adverse effect on leaming for poor children. The selection
criteria and the detailed implementation plan would be similar to that for providing tuition
' It is expected that the implementation of the SWPRP would bring out increased family income and local
resource, thus local communities' ability to support basic education. A detailed phased program, including
support for basic education through taxes on incremental production under the project, would be worked out.



-73-                               Annex 2
assistance. About Y21.5 million (base cost) would be used to finance the component and
benefit 205,000 children/years. Schools would be reimbursed for grains and relevant
expenses by county education project offices, and subject to supervision of village
communities.
21.   Boarding Facility. Approximately Y2.5 million would be used for administrative
village center schools to purchase beds, sheets, and cook-wares to accommodate 16,600
students per year from remote villages. Most of these students are of grades 4 - 6 and have
to come to village center school to complete their primary study (nearby teaching points
usually offer classes up to grade 3).
22.   Community Support. The above strategies of assisting students would be most
effective when combined with mobilizing community support. Sending children to school
should be a precondition for a household or a village community to participate in the
project. Furthermore, education promotion campaigns would help parents understand the
value of education and the greater benefits of sending their children to school. School
teachers would work with local leaders and women's federation to incorporate education
promotion into the adult "Illiteracy Elimination Campaign. When parents are active in the
educational process, it is more likely that their children will attend school. In remote rural
areas, community consensus often plays an important role. When taxes have to be
collected, voluntary labor has to be supplied, and other donations have to be made, it is
important to have support from whole community. At the same time, efforts should be
made to reduce the opportunity costs perceived by families. Strategies include establishing
preschools within the primary schools to increase girls attendance and to expose younger
children to the school environment; and instituting some communal labor-sharing
arrangement for grazing goats and cattle.
Books, Instructional Equipment and Furniture (Base cost Y20 million).
23.  In order to further decrease the direct costs of schooling, the project would equip
rural schools in project areas with books and equipment kits to Standard Three level.
About 900,000 books, 2,000 sets of instructional equipment (mainly for since education),
and about 200,000 sets of tables and chairs would be purchased under the project.
Teacher and Management Training (Base cost Y17.56 million)
24.   Adequately trained teachers and managers are vital to providing quality education.
Therefore, under the project, various programs will be offered to enhance the capabilities of
teachers and education managers. Nearly 18,200 person/times of in-province training



-74 -                                  Annex 2
provided to approximately 10,000 participants would be carried out through one-year and
short-term in-service courses. A limited number of study tours would be provided in areas
of girls and bilingual education. Priority will be given to selecting domestic locations
which are good examples in these areas.
25.   Teacher Qualification Training. This portion of the sub-component would include:
(a) full-time qualification training, (b) in-service qualification training through
correspondence education, and (c) brief periods of intensive subject-specific in-service
training (such as those on teaching skills of multi-grades and multi-subjects). The project
would provide training for 12,000 teachers/years for both full-time and part-time teachers.
Priority would be given to teachers who are post-secondary graduates".
26.   Bilingual Education Training. Under the project, 3,376 teachers/years from non-
sinicized minority villages will be trained in bilingual teaching methods. The project would
emphasize bilingual education targeting non-sinicized minority groups in project areas.
Language is the second hurdle (next to poverty) hindering non-sinicized minority children
in obtaining education. Many of them often fall behind the education program from the
first year; others manage to get through the elementary school system without ever
mastering Han Chinese. Bilingual education programs exist in three provinces (particularly
at provincial or county minority schools - minzhu xiaoxue- where only few can attend), but
fail to reach many children living in isolated mountainous villages. Discussions with
various education officials, along with local villagers, led to three general provisions to
primary education in non-sinicized minority areas. These include (a) the use of home
language as the medium of instruction at lower grades, (b) proficiency of Han Chinese
upon graduation, (c) teachers' training of bilingual teaching skills to achieve the above
goals.
27.   Programs of bilingual education in primary schools are trying to address not the
issue of ethnic histories or culture, but the necessity for effective primary education in
minority communities. In addition, mobility in society or simply broader economic
networks will require working in Han Chinese. It is commonly recognized among
educators that home language can serve best the medium of instruction at the beginning. In
providing bilingual education it is effective to use home language first and then switch to
Han Chinese later. Given the already significant amount of instruction time already
allocated to Han Chinese study (generally about 45 percent of the instruction time at rural
primary schools), some raise the concern that time further divided between two languages
may lower levels of achievement in either language. One effective measure found in these
areas is to establishing preschool within primary schools, not only to "baby-sit" young
" Teachers with less than post-secondary general education would spend most of the training time on
academic remediation. Therefore, it would be cost-effective to give training priority to teachers who are post-
secondary graduates.



- 75 -                              Annex 2
siblings for students, but to prepare young children with a new language and the learning
environment. Areas that are accomplishing the first goal are often failing in the second,
because they use local language for all purposes except reading texts aloud. Home
language, used as the medium of instruction, continues to be the "study aid" throughout the
primary cycle. Thus many young adult elementary school graduates are unable to express
themselves in Han Chinese or had already lost any useful knowledge of Han Chinese. To
avoid this issue, teachers in these areas must be trained in effective bilingual teaching
methods.
28.   Policy of Affirmative Action. The project would provide monies (Yl.4 million) to
hire an estimated 1,467 qualified teachers. In the long term, emphasis would be placed on
policies to encourage qualified teachers to work in isolated areas. In general, the sheer lack
of facilities in poor schools discourage teachers to relocate and remain in rural areas.
Incentive policies would include: (a) improving working and living conditions for teachers
at rural schools; (b) giving priority in teacher college recruitment to enroll candidates who
are from, and more likely to return to, absolute poor communities; and (c) providing
additional benefits to attract qualified female teachers, who can serve as role models for
young girls. Provincial Education Commissions (PECs) have committed to recruit more
students from poor areas and have initiated programs to encourage graduates, particularly
women, to work in remote rural areas. Therefore, the teacher training subcomponent would
be phased out during the project implementation, and incremental demand for teachers
would be supplemented gradually through PECs' formal recruitment and assignment of the
graduates.
29.   Management Training. In-service training would also be provided to 3,112
person/years of primary school principals and educational administrators in project areas.
The professional development of primary school management has been given a high priority
in the design of the component. These training include (a) short school-based generic
activities on a regular and recurrent basis, (b) regular retraining of principals in educffon
districts and at teachers centers and institutions for generic upgrading, or (c) training for
specific objectives, such as delivering bilingual education, assisting students through fees
waiving or in-school nutrition programs, (d) and regular, intensive upgrading of
administrators at county level for six-week blocks of time. Training would also be
coordinated with other aspects of the project, including civil works and delivery of
equipment, materials and books.
Institution Building and TA (Base cost Y7.9 million)
30.   The project would develop local management capabilities for the primary education
system at county, township and village level through staff training, the provision of
equipment and expert services. Training for local education managers would include



- 76 -                               Annex 2
modem techniques and methods in education management and resource utilization,
supervision and monitoring methods, study of lessons and experiences gained from both
project and other areas to develop local policies, and problem-solving skills targeting
project areas. County education managers would also be trained in the use of computers
and software for data collection, processing, and basic analysis to assist education
management and supervision.
31.   Under the project, provincial education bureaus would provide the lead role in
technical assistance for the design and implementation of education activities. The
involvement of provincial education bureaus is essential in order to (a) maintain the
technical standards and content of the intervention carried out under the component, (b)
coordinate teacher and management training at the provincial level, and (c) monitor and
evaluate project activities. It is hoped that the provincial bureaus would be able to
contribute additional financial resources to expand secondary education coverage (building
upon the project component). Additionally, the provincial bureaus would assist in ensuring
that there would be no deterioration in basic education status in non-project counties (which
might be brought about by the diversion of funding from non-project counties).
Sustainability of the Component
32.   Investments in school places, equipment, and teacher training are easily accepted.
However, strategies concerning tuition assistance and in-school nutrition interventions are
often resisted. The most common argument against the approach is that it is unsustainable
in the long-run. This view point underestimates the government's and local communities'
commitment and ability to support basic education in poor areas. First, although the project
can help with the up-front investment in increasing supplies, it is governments' obligation
to fund most of school recurrent costs in the long-run, and provide universal primary
education, with or without the project. According to the World Bank (1992) report, to fully
fund the requirements (including recurrent costs) of universal education in the poor areas,
would only cost about 0.5 percent of total government expenditure in 1992. With the
project, the government should only reach the goal sooner. Hence, the government has the
ability to accomplish the goal. In its 8-7 plan, the government has demonstrated its
commitment. Second, it is not on the supply side that the problem of sustainability is to be
found. The major constraint on sustainability resides rather in the area of maintaining
demand. Poverty is the main but not the sole reason for the low demand for education.
The most effective way to increase demand for education is through demonstration of its
benefits and mobilization of local community support. Strategies to sustain the delivery of
quality primary education to all school-age children in the poor areas should be sought from
both the supply and demand side of education. The development of these strategies must
also take into account the diverse cultural, economic and demographic factors and rely on
participation of communities and local governments.



Annex 2 - Table 1: Key Benchmark Indicatoms for Primary Education (1992)
Guangxi              Guizhou             Yunnan             600 HH
PV  a/    PT b      PV         PT        PV         PT       Survey c/
EnroUment                                 5,454,921    146,214  4,005,513    114,656  3,809,600    79,599     409
Net Enrollment Rate (NER)                      97.3       83.1      92.4       79.1      96.3       87.4        55
Girls' NER                              90.5       72.4      84.8       69.9        93       81.7        45
Completion Rate (CR)                           88.3      68.1       61.5       45.5      70.7      45.4         13
Girls' CR                               78.3       63.5      41.5        35                  38.7         5
% of qualified teachers                          82       48.7      78.9       67.9      75.1      58.5
%ofdangeous school buildings in m2              8.1       11.7      10.6        19        8.3        9.2
% of studnts having tables & chairs              85        76         83       60.3        90        30
Number of books per student d/                  0.8       0.4        0.5        0.4       0.6      0.28
a/ PV= Provice
b/ PT = Project Townships
cd Data colected in 24 project villages of the three prvinces in Octoba 1994.
d/ Provintci data wre estimated based on their targets set in the previous WB education project proposals.
x



Annex 2- Table 2: Guangxi - Basic Education Indicators for Project Areas
1994/95              19                 1998               2000                   2001
Number    %        Number    %        Number      %      Number       %         Targets
Net Enrollment Rate (NER)                 111146.0   85.0    112508.0   89.0   107086.0   93.0   100810.0    95.0             96%
Girls' NER                            50823.0   76.0     50924.0   83.0    50837.0   89.0    48202.0    93.0             94%
Completion Rate (CR)                                 72.0               78.0               84.0                90.0           90/
Girls' CR                                       66.0               73.0               81.0                 80.0          83%
Qualified Teachers                                   52.8               66.2               82.2                90.0           91%
Teachers Trained                                               2190.9   30.0      5477.3   75.0      6572.7    90.0        7303.0
Female teachers trained                                     985.9  30.0      2464.8   75.0      2957.7    90.0        3286.4
Principals Trained                            37.7    5.0       263.6   35.0       640.1   85.0       715.4    95.0         753.0
Dangerous school buildings                  61853   10.5    31496.0   4.8    14512.0    2.1         13788.0     2.0            2%
Students having tables & chairs             109810   78.3               80.0               84.6                97.0          100%/
Number of books per student                    0.4                1.4                3.6                4.5                   4.5
Students receiving free textxbks            9000.0    5.0    63000.0   35.0   144000.0   80.0   162000.0    90.0         180000.0
Girls                                  4770.0    5.0    33390.0   35.0    76320.0  80.0        85860.0    90.0       95400.0
Students enrolled in nutrition program      4750.0    5.0    33250.0   35.0    76000.0   80.0    85500.0    90.0          95000.0
Girls                                  2517.5    5.0      17622.5   35.0    40280.0   80.0    45315.0    90.0        50350.0
Transition rate into lower-middle sch.               46.3               48.0               51.0                55.0           56%
Girls/minorities                                39.8                42.0               50.0                51.0          52%
0



Annex 2 - Table 3: Guizhou - Basic Education Indicators for Project Areas
1994/95              1996                1998                2000               End of Project
Number       %      Number       %      Number        %      Number       %       Target
Net Enrollment Rate (NER)                   121855.0    82.0     123005     86.0     125324     93.0      125968     96.0          96%
Girls' NER                                        74.0                83.0                 89.0                93.0           94%
Completion Rate (CR)                                    53.0                65.0                75.0                 85.0          87%
Girls' CR                                         45.0                60.0                 72.0                80.0           83%
Qualified Teachers                                      72.0                77.0                88.0                 90.0          904/.
Teachers Trained                                                   1373     33.0       2539     61.0       3580      86.0        4162.0
Female teachers trained                                       618                 1142                1610                 1872.0
Principals Trained                                                  110    30.0         201     55.0        329     90.0          366.0
Dangerousschoolbbuildings                     31028     14.0      16548      7.5      12300      5.5       9000      4.0            4%
Students having tables & chairs              109810    65.0                 81.0                97.0                100.0         100%
Number of books per student                     1.00                2.00                2.50                3.00                    3.0
Students receiving free textbooks            9000.0      5.0      63000     35.0     144000     80.0     171000     90.0       180000.0
& tuition waiver
Girls                                    4950      5.0      34650     35.0      79200      80.0      89100     90.0       99000.0
Students enrolled in nutrition program         2500      5.0      17500     35.0      40000     80.0      45000     90.0        50000.0
Girls                                    1325      5.0       9275     35.0      21200      80.0     23850      90.0       26500.0
Transition rate into lower-middle sch.                  57.1                58.0                60.0                 62.0          62%
Girls                                             52.0                53.0                 57.0                59.0          60%/
0



Annex 2- Table 4: Yunnan - Basic Education Indicators for Project Areas
1994/95              1996               1998              2000                   2001
Number    %       Number    %        Number    %        Number       %         Targets
Net Enrollment Rate (NER)                     20950   87.4       20400   89.0       19529   93.0      19005    95.0            96%
Girls' NER                                        81.7              83.0               89.0                93.0           94%
Completion Rate (CR)                                  50.0               58.0               65.0                72.0          74.0
Girls' CR                                         40.0              46.0               60.0                68.0          70.0
Quatified Teachers                                    58.6               62.0               68.0                75.0          82.0
Teachers Trained (person per year(ppy))                           1068               1957              2669                 3559.0        1
Female teachers trained (ppy)                                 481                881               1202                 1602.0       o
PrncipalsTrained(ppy)                            73    5.0         511   35.0       1241   85.0        1387    95.0         1460.0
Dangerous school buildings                    29556    8.0       17734    4.8       7759    2.1        6280      1.7          1.7%/.
Students having tables & chairs             96351.0   70.0               80.0               84.6                97.0          100%/
Number of books per student                    0.80               1.40               2.00               2.50                   3.0
Students receiving free textbooks (ppy)      9000.0    5.0       63000   35.0      144000   80.0     162000    90.0       180000.0
Girls (ppy)                               4950              34650              79200              89100               99000.0
Students enrolled in nutrition program (ppy)   3000    5.0       21000 35.0         48000 80.0        54000    90.0        60000.0
Girls (ppy)                               1590              11130              25440              28620               31800.0
Transition rate into lower-middle sch.                40.0               45.0               50.0                58.0           62%
Girls/ninorities                                  38.0              43.0               48.0                54.0           60%
0
x
t-)



- 81 -                                 Annex 3
Health Sector Subcomponent
Introduction
1.    Health and poverty are closely linked.  Basic investments in health are key
ingredients for effective poverty reduction. Enhancing the health of the poor not only
provides the immediate welfare gain of relief from physical suffering but improves their
ability to be productive and earn income. Thus, progress in health status can help lift
a person from poverty and can impact a country's economic performance and growth.
2.    Fortunately, relatively modest investments in basic preventive health care have
proven to be extremely cost-effective. These basic health interventions should be, at
least in part, provided by the Government because: (a) the poor cannot always afford
health care that would improve their productivity and well-being; (b) some actions that
produce health are pure public goods or create large positive externalities - private
markets would not produce them at all or would produce too little; and (c) market
failures in health care and health insurance mean that Government intervention can raise
welfare by improving how those markets function.'
3.    Overall, China has made tremendous strides in enhancing the health of its
population. However, progress has been uneven and there are areas of China where
health status is abysmally low. This project by targeting basic health services to the
absolute poor seeks to assist the Government in raising the health status and thus the
productivity of the most needy.
Sector Background
4.    China has obtained a national health status comparable to many middle income
countries with an infant mortality rate (IMR) of 35 per 1000 live births, a maternal
mortality ratio (MMR) of 88 per 100,000 live births, and a life expectancy at birth of 69
years.2 Furthermore, according to the World Bank's World Development Report (WDR)
1993 measure of the burden of disease, China's per capita losses from disease are less
I World Bank, 1993. World Development Report.
2 These represent official figures. IMR is from the unadjusted 1990 Census - first six months' births and deaths.
MMR rates are estimated from the 1989-91 Maternal Mortality Surveillance summary by region.



- 82 -                                Annex 3
than those of any region except the established market economies and the formerly
socialist economies of Europe. However, these national averages obscure significant
regional variations with health status almost always worse in rural parts of the country.
5.    While the absolute poor in China have never had sufficient access to health
services, what services were available may have decreased during the 1980s due to a
relative reduction in public financing for health and the institution of the fee for service
health care versus commune system. During the 1980s, the Govermnent began to require
that health services recover an increasing part of their costs, thus, there has been a
tendency on the part of providers to emphasize lucrative, and often unnecessary tests,
drugs and clinical services at the expense of preventive care. This problem is illustrated
by the fact that real per capita health spending (from all sources-budgets, fees and
insurance) rose faster (11 percent) than economic growth (8.7 percent) between 1980 and
1988, budgetary spending declined from 30 percent of the total health spending to 19
percent during the same time period.
6.    Besides a relative decline in financing, the nrual areas have suffered from
deteriorating health infrastructure, decreasing personnel and, at times, slowing declines
and even reversals in the prevalence of some diseases. While in China, on average, the
number of health institutions and number of personnel and doctors increased each year
from the mid-1970s through the 1980s, this was not the case in the rural townships and
villages. The number of township health centers and hospitals declined by about 15
percent from a peak of 55,000 in the early 1980s to 47,400 in the mid-1980s.
Furthermore, Government support for rural doctors decreased by 45 percent in real terms
during 1979-87 and the number of village level doctors and midwives declined from 2.2
million in 1975 to 1.7 million in 1988.3
7.    From the above, it is not surprising that while morbidity and mortality from
infectious and communicable diseases continue to decline for China as a whole, levels
of these diseases are much higher in poor areas. While data about disease trends in these
areas may not be reliable, data based on provincial averages show that there are
substantial parts of China where declines in the prevalence of some diseases have slowed
(tuberculosis) and even reversed (schistosomiasis, iodine deficiency disorders and
fluorosis)4. Even where deterioration of health status may not have occurred, there are
3 World Bank, 1992, China Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s.
4 World Bank, 1992, China, Long-term Issues and Options in the Health Transition, Washington, D. C.



- 83 -                                     Annex 3
still some poor areas where between 10 and 20 percent of the population suffers high
levels of acute respiratory disease, tuberculosis, pneumonia, dysentery, parasitic diseases
and micronutrient deficiencies5.
Health Issues in Project Provinces
8.     Health issues in project areas mirror the rural health problems mentioned above
but perhaps may be more severe given the fact that project activity is focussed on the
poorest of the poor. Compared to the national average and better-off areas, health status
in project provinces is abysmally low. For example, while the IMR per 1,000 live births
in Beijing, Jilin, and Shandong is 11, 27, and 17 respectively, the IMR in Guizhou,
Guangxi, and Yunnan is 68, 60, and 74. Similarly, MMRs for the first group of
provinces are 40, 47, and 40 respectively, while for the second group MMRs
approximate 170, 73, 170. Given that the project targets the poorest townships in the
poorest counties within the Guizhou, Guangxi, and Yunnan provinces, it is certain that
corresponding indicators are even lower in project areas 6.
9.     From  the above indicators, it is no surprise that health expenditures in project
areas are quite low. For example, China, on average, spends approximately $11 per
capita for health care of which approximately $6.5 of this figure represents public sector
expenditures. In the project counties, annual per capita health expenditures is only about
11 cents in Guizhou, 17 cents in Guangxi, and 44 cents in Yunnan7. SSB survey data
(para. 3.39) found that approximately 90 percent of the poorest in the project areas
cannot afford to pay for medical services. Almost half of the project villages do not have
a health post, so villagers must travel on average at least 4 km to reach a health facility.
10.    Consistent with high levels of poverty and low levels of health sector financing
and an inadequate number of facilities, project areas suffer from dilapidated facilities,
insufficient equipment, grossly inadequate salaries and numbers of personnel, inadequate
training, and a health system which suffers from ineffective management and
coordination. These issues are explained in greater detail in the following section.
5  Ibid.
6 A survey conducted by the Ministry of Public Health in 1989 found that infant mortality exceeded 100 per 1000
and maternal mortality exceeded 300 per 100,000 in some poor and remote areas of China. Furthermore, analysis
undertaken in the World Bank's document China, Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s argues that due to, among
other things, sampling techniques and the inability to accurately report mortality in the poor areas, these rates are even
higher.
7 Expenditure data at the provincial level is based on preliminary findings and is subject to possible change.



- 84 -                              Annex 3
Project Description
11.   The project responds to the above health sector issues by financing health facility
construction and renovation, health worker and birth attendant training, salary increments
for health workers, funding for primary health care medicine and supplies, and activities
to strengthen disease prevention and control, maternal and child health care and health
system management. The base cost of the health subcomponent is Y178.3 million,
including Y109.3 million for village level development, Y43.8 million for township level
development, Y9.2 million for Disease Prevention and Control, Y7.8 million for
Maternal and Child Health, Y3.9 million for County Level Supervision and Management,
and Y4.3 million for Provincial Level Supervision and Management.
Village Level Development
12.   Village Health Clinic Renovation and Construction (Base Cost Y23,027,650).
Almost half of the project villages do not have a health post and those that exist are
invariably dilapidated. During the first 18 months of the project, all villages would
either upgrade existing health clinics or construct new ones. The standard for the village
health post is four rooms with a total area of 50 square meters. The cost of construction
for a typical health clinic is estimated to be about Y250 to Y300 per square meter.
Approximately 1,700 village health posts would be built or upgraded.
13.   Equipment for the Village Health Post (Base Cost Y6,908,000). Many of the
village health posts lack essential equipment to provide even the basic of health care.
Thus, a standard set of equipment (Table 1) would be provided to each village health
post.
14.   Training for Village Health Workers and Birth Attendants (Base Cost
Y10,464,000 of which Y6,278,400 is for village health worker training and 4,185,600
for birth attendant training). The care practices and skills of health staff at all, but
particularly lower levels, is problematic. For example, treatment of common illnesses
such as pneumonia or diarrhea is often inappropriate. Furthermore, complications and
high risk conditions in pregnancy, such as anemia, are often not managed correctly,
monitoring of labor is rarely done, and referral of emergencies is not planned in advance.
Approximately 1,750 health workers and 3,500 birth attendants would be provided
training.
a.  Training for Village Health Aides. In response to inadequate training, the
project would provide training for new and existing health aides. Approximately
1,750 new health aides, one per village, would be trained during the first three
years of the project. The selection criteria for new health aides is: minimum
junior high school education, under 30 years of age, and native to the project



- 85 -                              Annex 3
area. The project would provide full tuition and living expenses at a cost of
Y3,600 per person. Prior to training the health aide must agree, via a signed
contract, to return to her home village for a minimum of 6 years of service.
The project would retrain existing health aides under 50 years of age with at least
a junior high school education level who are willing to attend a one-year re-
training program at selected health schools. One existing health worker would
be retrained with the objective of having a maximnum of two aides per village
including the newly trained aides. The estimated cost for the one year re-training
is Y1,800 not including living expenses. During training the health worker would
receive a salary for living expenses.
b.    Training of Birth Attendants.  For each of the project villages, an
average of two to three birth attendants would be trained for a total of six
months. Selection criteria would require that trainees be women over age 18,
with a minimum of elementary school education. Preference would be given to
those already in practice as birth attendants. The attendants would be qualified to
receive payment from the case management fund under the Maternal and Child
portion of this project. The Birth Attendants would: manage pregnancy, birth,
and post-partum care; conduct delivery; and assist village health workers in
providing primary health care.
15.   Salary  Increment for Existing  and  New  Village  Health  Workers
(Y21,987,000). In all project areas health worker salaries are abysmally low resulting
in low retention rates or health workers splitting their time between health tasks and other
income generating activities such as farming. In order to off-set the low salary, the
project would provide a salary increment to 4,101 health workers. During the initial three
years, the project would provide all the salary in the cases of Guangxi and Guizhou (in
both of these provinces there currently is no village health aide salary) and in Yunnan,
where village health aides currently receive Y20 to Y50, a portion of the salary. The
base salary of all village health workers would be 80 percent of the proposed monthly
salary of Y80- YIOO. If the village health aide performs according to standard, the
remaining 20 percent would also be given on an annual basis. Additional monies would
be provided to health workers for immunization, birth and death reporting and disease
surveillance.
16.   Village Health Care Cooperative Fund (Base Cost Y46,922,614). At the village
level, the stock of essential curative and preventive medicines and supplies is incomplete
and insufficient. In response to this problem, a health care cooperative would be created
to insure the availability of curative and preventive medicines and supplies. The fund
would have three revenue streams: (i) funds from the project, provided on a decreasing
per capita basis, (ii) community contributions, which increase as a share of total funds



- 86 -                             Annex 3
over a five-year period, and (iii) revenues from the sale of curative and preventive
medicines at discounted prices (See Chart #1 for the projected flow of funds over the
five-year period). Individual members would be charged 30 percent of the actual cost
of medicines and supplies.
Chart #1: Sources and Uses of Funds
for the Village Health Care Cooperative Fund
(In 1995 constant yuan figures)
Source/Use of      | Yr. 1    Yr. 2      Yr. 3      Yr. 4     Yr. 5
Funds              l         l        l          l_l
Revenue Stream #1:     4.5      4.0       3.5        3.0       2.5
Project contribution
Revenue Stream #2:      0       0.5       1.0        1.5       2.0
Community contrib.
Revenue Stream #3:     1.5      1.5       1.5        1.5       1.5
Discounted sales of
medicines
Total Annual           6.0      6.0       6.0       6.0        6.0
Revenue
Planned annual use     5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
Savings for future     1.0      2.0       3.0       4.0       5.0
fund use
(cumulative)       J
17.   The cooperative fund would be managed by the preventive health service at the
township hospital. The township public health worker assigned to each administrative
village would have fund oversight responsibility. Fund operations would be monitored
by a village health fund committee.
18.  In order to ensure appropriate operation of fund, the following guidelines would
be instituted: (a) for each case, the medical condition, medications used, and amount of
co-payment fee collected would be documented; (b) the resupply of pharmaceutical would
be based on actual record of utilization thereby guarding against shortages and
oversupply. The fund would purchase a six month supply of medication and supplies.
Every three months the fund would be charged for the resupply of stock. To ensure



- 87 -                             Annex 3
appropriate inventory as well as to encourage appropriate use of pharmaceutical, 30
essential and commonly used medications would be procured and resupplied with the
health fund (Table 2). The list of essential drugs is a modified version recommended by
the World Health Organization. In addition, approved locally produced low-cost
traditional medicines could be obtained by the village health aide; (c) the periodic review
by the township village health supervisor of the appropriateness of the medication usage;
and (d) the compilation of an annual statistical summary of usage pattern of all village
health clinics to detect outlyers.
Township Level Development
19.   Construction and Expansion of Township Hospitals (Base Cost Y19,106,000).
While the majority of the project townships have existing hospitals, for practical
purposes, they are outpatient clinics with a few beds and are in dilapidated condition. In
response to these small and deteriorated facilities, the project would rehabilitate and
expand existing township hospitals. Currently, the size of these hospitals ranges from
100 to 400 square meters. The project would expand each township hospital by
approximately 200 square meters which would house the preventive service office. This
additional space would house a training classroom for village health workers, and
increase outpatient and pharmacy facilities.
20.   Equipment for Township Hospitals (Base Cost Y9,280,000 for standard set of
equipment; Y1,260 for x-ray machines; and Y4,350,000 for motorcycles). Many of the
township hospitals lack basic equipment. Thus, the project would provide basic sets of
equipment to approximately 290 hospitals (Table 3). The project would also provide
x-ray equipment to 70 township center hospitals and 290 motorcycles for village visits
to transport vaccines.
21.   Township Health Workers Training. (Base Cost Y4,350,000). Similar to the
situation with village health workers, the training for township health workers is
inadequate. Approximately two existing township health workers at each of the project
township hospitals would be reassigned from clinical work to become full-time preventive
health workers. During the project period, each newly reassigned preventive service staff
would receive a total of six to nine months training at the health school, anti-epidemic
station and child health office. Other clinic staff would receive one to two months
training related to preventive services.
22.   Salary Assistance For The Township Preventive Health Care Workers (Base
Cost Y5,421,600). To off-set the low salaries of township preventive health care
workers, the project would provide a salary top-off to the 753 full-time preventive health
care workers of Y100 over their base salary of Y100-200 provided by the local
government. These township preventive health care workers would: (a) support and



- 88 -                             Anne_  3
supervise village level primary health care activities; (b) provide training for the village
level health workers; (c) conduct surveillance for disease, water quality, and health
statistics; (d) supervise and take part in managing the village health cooperative fund; and
(e) provide disease surveillance and reporting at the township level.
23.   Enhancing Access to Medical Service at the Township Hospital. The high
costs of services often impede access of the poor to township hospitals. In order to
enhance access of the poor to hospital services, the poor would only pay for the cost of
services, not including any related profits generated by delivery of health care services.
For selected conditions related to maternal and child health, such as post-partum
complications and neonatal pneumonia, the cost of the care could be provided by the
MCH case management fund. Each province would develop a detailed procedure to
assure improved access of the poor to township medical service.
Disease Prevention and Control
24.   Disease Surveillance System. (Cost Y1,750,000). Reliable data on mortality
and morbidity is very important for designing and evaluating health interventions. The
project would implement a disease surveillance system which would systematize birth,
death, and communicable disease reporting and undertake investigation of communicable
disease outbreaks. The estimated cost of the disease surveillance system is based on the
population covered and 20 percent additional cost for administrative and outbreak
investigations.
25.   Seroprevalence Survey for Communicable Disease (Base Cost Y1,312,500).
To monitor the pattern of major communicable diseases with high outbreak potential,
a serological survey would be conducted each year for: measles, meningitis, and
encephalitis.
26.   Cold Storage Unit (Base Cost Y875,000). To ensure safe storage of vaccine,
cold storage units would be provided (one per county). The estimated cost of each unit
is Y25,000.
27.   Vaccine and Special Medication (Base Cost Y3,500,000). To enhance the
control of Typhoid Fever, and TB, and the reduction of neonatal tetanus, the project
would provide: (a) vaccine for Typhoid Fever in endemic areas - estimated 60,000
persons per year at Y5 per person; (b) Tetanus for pregnant women - estimated at YO.5
per person for 6,000-10,000 women per province each year; and (c) medication for TB
case management; chemotherapy for each case requires Y250 of medication per year.
The estimated case load within the project areas is about 3000 cases for each province.
All activities would be implemented by village health workers under the supervision of
the township preventive health service.



- 89 -                              Annex 3
28.   Water Monitoring Equipment (Base Cost Y1,050,000). To  provide proper
monitoring and control of safe drinking water the project would provide a periodic
assessment of all local common drinking water. Each county would receive a set of
instruments to monitor water quality. The cost per set is 30,000 yuan.
29.   Chemical Treatment for Drinking Water Source (Base Cost Y709, 116).
Chemicals would be provided on a routine basis to treat village water supply. A village
health worker would conduct the treatment. The estimated water treatment chemical cost
is approximately YO.25 per person per year.
Maternal and Child Health
30.   MCH Case Management (Base Cost Y7,500,000). To enhance pre-natal care
and routine child care and decrease child delivery complications, the village health
worker and birth attendant would be paid for each pregnancy and delivery that was
managed up to the practice standard. In addition, because a major reason for the lack
of utilization of MCH service is the inability of poor households to purchase health
worker services, project monies would also finance nominal incentives for the utilization
of MCH primary health services. The estimated cost is Y25 per delivery: the health
worker or the birth attendant would receive Y17 for providing pre-natal care and clean
delivery, and the mother would receive Y6 for taking part in the program. In addition,
about 8 percent of the MCH management monies would be set aside for the medical care
cost of complicated pregnancies, delivery and neonatal care requiring referral to
township and county hospitals. The administrative procedures for this portion of the
health project would be developed and supervised by the county MCH office.
31.   Nutrition Surveillance (Base Cost Y340,000). To develop a routine monitoring
system for childhood nutritional status as part of project monitoring activities, a subset
of the project villages would be used as monitoring sites. At those sites, the village
health aides would routinely measure and record the height and weight of infants and
children at a certain age. The scope of this surveillance system is about 1/10 of all
project villages. The cost would equal approximately Y400-500 each year for the village
health aides to conduct the measurements based on a cost of YO.5 per measurement
recorded. The surveillance system would be managed by the county and provincial MCH
office. An annual summary would be the main output of this surveillance system.
County Level Project Management
32.   County Staff Training (Base Cost Y840,000) To address inadequate health care
management at the county level, under the project, all key project personnel at each
county would receive an average of four months of management training. Approximately



- 90 -                             Annex 3
six persons from each county would be trained at an average cost of Y1000 per month
of training.
33.   Project Management Office Equipment (Base Cost Y950,000) All county
health and provincial project offices would receive one set of office equipment which
includes: a personal computer and printer. The estimated cost for this equipment is
Y25,000 per set.
Provincial Level Project Management
34.   Technical Assistance  (Base Cost Y738,000).  The project would provide
approximnately 36 advisors or consultants to assist in program development and
monitoring. Advice would be sought concerning, among other things, training content
for the village health aides and birth attendants, system improvement for disease
monitoring and control, nutrition surveillance system training and implementation, and
program management. To the extent possible, the three project provinces would share
resources in the utilization of technical assistance. The estimated cost is Y87,000 per
foreign consultant, and Y18,000 per domestic consultant based on an average period of
2 to 3 weeks.
35.   Study Tours. (Base Cost Y840,000). For each province, approximately 7 study
tour opportunities would be provided for county or provincial project staff to visit other
developing countries where there has been successful reform or development of primary
health care. This activity is budgeted at Y40,000 per trip.
36.   Provincial Staff Training (Base Cost Y72,000). Six key personnel from each
provincial project office would receive training dealing with the management of the
various new activities. The average cost is Y4,000 per person trained.
37.   Management Fee (Base Cost Y2,634,802). Project management would occur
through the health office at the provincial level. Project monies would support routine
office expenditures such as printing, supplies, telephone, local travel for project support
and supervision for the World Bank loan office within the Bureau of Public Health. No
salaries would be charged to the project for provincial level management.
38.   Monitoring and Evaluation (Base Cost Y2,100,000). In order to monitor and
evaluate project impact, major indicators such as infant mortality, maternal mortality, and
nutritional status would be collected at the start, middle and end of the project. The
majority of the monitoring activities would be conducted within the health system with
supervision and support from outside institutions. This part of the evaluation cost is



- 91 -                                   Annex 3
mainly intended for measuring activities outside of the project areas for comparison
purpose. Within the project areas, the cost of monitoring, to an extent, can be charged
to the project at the county level as part of the disease surveillance activities.



- 92 -                              Annex 3
Annex 3 - Table 1: Standard List of Equipment
for Each Village Health Clinic
Item                     Ouantitv
Stethoscope              2
Blood pressure cuffs     2
Thermometers             2
Delivery kit             2
Equipment bag            2
Examination bed          1
Weight scale             1
Injection kit            1
Sterilizer               1
Suture kit               1
Stactometer              1
Cold box                 1
Medicine chest           1
Table                    1
Chair                    2
Bed                      1
Refrigerator             1



- 93 -                             Annex 3
Annex 3 - Table 2: Recommended Essential Drugs
for the Village Health Clinic
Analgesics              Acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin) 300 mg tablets
Paracetamol 100 mg and 500 mg tablets
Anti-allergics          Chlorphenamine 4 mg tablets
Anti-helminthics        Mebendazole 100 mg tablets
Antibiotics             Ampicillin 250 mg capsules
Ampicillin oral suspension (250mg/Sml)
Sulphamethoxazole + trimethroprim 400mg + 80mg tablets
Cloxacillin 500 mg capsules and Gentamicin inject. 40mg/ml
Penicillin inject. (benzathine benzypencillin 2.4m IU/5ml)
Anti-fungal drugs       Nystatin solution 100,000 unit
Anti-malarial drugs     Chloroquine 150 mg tablets
Dematologicial drugs
Anti-fungal:      Benzoic acid + salicytic acid oilment (6% +3 %)
Anti-infective    Gentian violet crystals; Iodine solution 2.5%
Gastrointestinal drugs  Antacids
Aluminum hydroxide 500 mg tablets
Anti-infective
Metronidazole 250 mg tablets
Diarrhea                Oral reyhration salts
Nutrition supplements    Ferrous sulfate 60 mg tablets
Vitamin A capsules 100,000 IU
Opthoalmolgical preparations
Anti-infective    Tetracycline eye oilment (1 %)
Oxytoxics               Ergometrine injection 0.2 mg/ml
Respiratory drugs       Anti-asthmatic
Aminophylline 100 mg tablets



- 94 -                             Annex 3
Annex 3 - Table 3: List of Standard Equipment
For Each Township Hospital
Item                           Ouantity
Microscope                           1
Delivery Bed                         1
Operation Table                      1
Obstetric Equipment Set              1
Simple Delivery Kits                 4
Surgical Equipment                   I
Office Equipment                     1
Office Furniture                     1
Classroom Tables and Chairs Set      1
Overhead Projector                   1
Sterilizer                           1
Blood Pressure Cuffs                 4
Dryer                                1
Centrifuge                           1
Infant Scales                        1
Adult Scales                         1
Statometer                           1
Cold Storage Unit                    1
Chinese Medicine Equipment           1
Telephone Line                       1



-95-                                         Annex 4
China
Southwest China Poverty Reduction Project
Labor Mobility Component
Introduction
1.     This component is part of an integrated approach to reduce absolute poverty in upland areas of
Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces. A cost-effective labor mobility system which responds to
employer requirements and the needs of migrants is a powerful means of poverty reduction. Labor
mobility activities do not involve any temporary or permanent resettlement of families or mandatory
relocation of individuals. This is a strictly voluntary program for individual surplus laborers built on
existing Labor Bureau activities.'
2.     This component would address existing labor market imperfections with a system of "pump
priming" interventions to improve the flow of market information to poor upland households in project
counties. The first step would be an affirmative action approach to assist 343,000 surplus laborers to
obtain employment in fastgrowing urban labor markets.
3.     The Labor Mobility Component would provide safeguards as part of an organized market-
friendly means to allow the absolute poor to gain a share of benefits from the large scale rural-to-urban
migration already underway. It would (a) provide incentives to firms and training centers to provide
basic vocational training and (b) locate safe, stable off-farm employment opportunities for 343,000
upland surplus laborers. Wage earners would be encouraged to remit funds to their households in
project areas through secure channels to cover labor mobility costs, school fees, medical expenses,
agricultural inputs and other expenses. Special safeguards would be developed to protect the most
vulnerable migrants, including the large numbers of women and minorities expected to take advantage
of the labor mobility opportunity.
Recent History of Labor Mobility
4.     Large scale migration began in the late 1980s, encouraged by increasingly liberalized labor
markets and rapid economic growth in coastal urban centers. Millions of rural surplus laborers have
few alternatives: agricultural jobs are only expected to grow marginally in the 1990s (at about 0.8
percent per year), compared to annual growth of 2.5 percent from  1985 to 1990.2  There is an
enormous economic incentive to move to the cities: those who obtain jobs in urban areas can earn ten
to twenty times more than the per capita income of those who remain in upland villages.3 There are
1/ The term "surplus labor" is used in the Chinese context to mean household members of working age who are unemployed on a year-round basis.
2/ China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, pg. 56.
3/ Remarks by Prof. Liu Wenpu. Institute of Rural Development, CASS, at the 1994 Seminar on Rural Migrants. (Joumal of Chinese Rural Economy,
No. 113)



- 96 -                                           Annex 4
also incentives for the firms, as local wage costs in coastal markets have risen. If labor mobility
restrictions return, many firms would face the daunting task of replacing cheap migrant labor with
labor-replacing machinery.'
5.      An in-depth study of the issues contributing to poverty in China recommended a series of
strategies to reduce absolute poverty during the 1990s. The study suggested, among other initiatives,
that "all opportunities for expanding out-migration of surplus labor from the poor areas be explored".'
Labor market specialists attending an international seminar in Beijing in 1992 reviewed the findings of
the study and similar investigations. These experts confirmed the critical need for policies and projects
to promote orderly out-migration from upland areas to fastgrowing cities.
6.      A  1994 study by the China Industrial Information Institute reveals important characteristics of
urban labor markets. Specific labor markets are growing rapidly, including export-oriented textiles,
electronic assembly and toy factories. Even for sectors with slower growth, urban industrial expansion
provides tens of thousands of new jobs in shipyards, industrial, commercial, hotel and municipal
construction. At the same time, the number of reported labor disputes has increased dramatically,
especially in joint ventures in southern coastal areas.
7.      There are three important market failures which limit the ability of surplus laborers from poor
upland households in project areas to take part in growing urban labor markets. The most important
constraint is the lack of timely, reliable labor market information. The importance of informal
networks and brokerage firms in providing information about jobs was confirmed by a review of Labor
Bureau statistics representing 810,000 migrant workers working in Jiangsu, Dongguan, Guangzhou and
Zhejiang. In Jiangsu, 80 percent of migrants used these channels, while it is more than 90 percent in
the other labor markets.6 Most upland households with surplus laborers do no have such social
networks or other ways to find out about job opportunities in nearby towns or distant cities -- and this
is especially true for minority groups.7
8.      Upland households with surplus laborers face two additional labor market imperfections: (a)
the lack of rudimentary knowledge and skills required by urban growth pole jobs, and (b) inadequate
funds for a job search outside the local area. A review of the qualifications of employed migrant
workers in Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Fujian found that only 13.3 percent had not completed
primary school.8 In contrast, the adult illiteracy rate in project areas in Yunnan is about 47 percent.9
4/ A 1985 World Bank-CASS survey cited in China: Strategies for Reducint Poverty in the 1990s. a World Bank Country Study, 1992.
51 China: Strateties for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, World Bank Country Study, pg. xiii, pg. 49, 1992.
6/ Market Research Report on Laborer Migration Program for Poverty Alleviation, LGPR, October, 1994, pg. 29.
7/ In many minority villages, informal labor mobility offers by outsiders have led to abduction of single women to be sold as wives (according to interviews
with Miao villagers, Wuding and Luquan Counties. Yunnan, May, 1994; interviews with Yao villagers in Mashan County, Guangxi, September, 1994).
8/ 1986 Survey of 108 coastal villages, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
2/ 1994 figure from Yunnan Provincial State Education Commission, based on the standard definition of ability to write less than 1500 chinese chamrcters.



- 97 -                                     Annex 4
A 1994 State Statistics Bureau (SSB) survey of 600 households in project areas found that 56 percent
of adults were illiterate, and another 19 percent did not complete primary school. The high share of
ethnic minority people in project areas also means that many lack strong Han language skills.
Scale of Labor Mobility
9.      The scale of informal labor migration is much greater than labor mobility through organized
channels. Ministry of Labor (MOL) researchers set interprovincial migration at 20 million, with an
additional 35 million shifting locally.'° The Ministry of Agriculture's Office of Rural Reform
estimates 70 million seasonal and permanent migrants in 1994, a 10 percent increase from the previous
year. The Urban Construction Ministry's 1990 survey estimated that there were 37 to 40 million rural
laborers working in cities.
10.   In the three project provinces, migrants using informal channels far outnumber those who rely
on governmental programs. The Yunnan Provincial Labor Bureau organized the migration of 48,000
workers in 1993, but estimates that an additional 300,000 people searched for jobs without assistance.
The Guizhou Provincial Labor Bureau found employment for 60,000 people in 1992, mostly in the toy,
fireworks and electronics factories and service industries of Guangdong. An additional 220,000 used
spontaneous channels." MOL officials believe that a large share of migrants using the riskier channels
are from poor upland households.
11.    The magnitude of the problem continues to grow in project areas. A 1994 study by the Leading
Group on Poverty Reduction (LGPR) found that about 2.2 million people in project areas depend
primarily on income generated by agricultural activities. Of this population, 738,000 (33.5 percent) are
classified as surplus laborers. According to Yunnan Provincial Labor Bureau officials, 400,000 people
are unemployed (22 percent of the rural work force). In poor counties, the situation is more
pronounced: Wuding County officials estimate that 40 percent of rural workers are surplus laborers
during periods of peak labor demand. A 1994 SSB sample survey found that 53 percent of adults were
interested in jobs outside the village, and most would accept a monthly wage of only Y100.
12.   A profile of surplus laborers in project areas identifies a large pool of potentially productive
workers, although the need for basic skills training is clear. Government estimates show that more than
75 percent of surplus laborers are between the ages of 16 and 35. Thirty-five percent of these
unemployed people have completed primary school education, with another 15 percent classified as
illiterate.
10/ Wang Aiwen, Ministry of Labor Institute for Labor Studies, May, 1994 interview.
11/ 'Spontaneous migration" is the term used to describe all informal channels, including job information and introductions by family members, friends,
and village networks. The data is provided by Guizhou and Yunnan Province Labor Bureaus, 1994.



- 98 -                                          Annex 4
13.    There is widespread acceptance that the urban population will continue to grow rapidly, despite
more favorable general demographic trends.'2  A  1992 Bank Group study points out that "(due to) a
delayed response to fertility trends of the 1970s, the absolute annual increase in the total working age
population declined from about 19 million during the first half of the 1980s to about 14 million during
the second half."'3 Since the "one child policy" is prevalent in urban areas, much of the anticipated
growth in the urban population will be the result of migration from rural areas.
14.    Specific estimates of the contribution of migrant labor in rapid urban population growth differ
markedly. According to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the urban population is expected to
grow by 377 million by 2010. This translates into the need to create 17 to 18 million urban jobs
annually.'4  A  State Council Development Research Center survey of 22 cities and counties in five
southwestern provinces estimates that there would be 32 million surplus laborers by that time.'5
Causes of Labor Mobility
15.    There are five causes for massive rural-to-urban migration: (a) worsening terms of trade and
living conditions in uplands counties of the southwestern and western provinces, (b) labor-intensive joint
ventures and township and village enterprises (TVEs) spawned by economic liberalization and financial
reform, (c) an unprecedented construction, investment and production boom in many southern coastal
cities, and moderate growth in Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin, (d) relaxation of worker permit and
residency restrictions in many towns and cities, and (e) official reconsideration of urban employment
policies.
16.    Rural Terms of Trade  There is strong evidence that the gap between rural and urban incomes
is widening. In 1978, urban per capita cash income was 2.33 times greater than the rural equivalent.
Following a drop to only 1.71 in 1984, the ratio has risen steeply to 2.54 by 1993. While real rural
income grew by 3.2 percent to Y910 in 1993, urban per capita income increased by 10.2 percent to
almost Y2300. 16 With non-wage factors such as grain and housing subsidies, the gap is even greater.
17.    There are indications that regional disparities are large and growing. According to a 1991 SSB
study, 29.2 percent of those under the poverty line are in the Southwest Provinces, while only 1.2
percent are in the southern provinces (Fujian, Guangdong and Hainan).'7 Wage rate differences
12/ This consensus can be seen in the results of the Seminar on Rural Migration sponsored by the Institute of Rural Development. It brought together
analysts and government officials to review the situation. (Journal of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, No. 113. No. 5, 1994)
13/ China: Strateaties for Reducinat Poverty in the 1990s, pg. 12.
14/ Financial Times article reprinted in South China Morning Post. Sept. 10, 1994. One frequently cited MOL estimate sets the number of unemployed
people at 200 million in rural regions and 68 million in the cities by the year 2000. However, this is considered by most analysts to be an exaggerted
figure.
15/ Labor Ministry estimate, reported by AFP, August 16. 1994, in China News Digest. State Council survey cited in China Daily, July 20, 1994.
16/ State Statistics Bureau official statistics, 1993.
17/ China: Strateties for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, Table 2.2 (pg. 37)



- 99 -                                        Annex 4
between rural areas in different provinces have also grown. A nationwide survey of 67,000 households
found that the gap had jumped from a 300 percent difference in 1982 to 560 percent by 1993. 1i
18.    TVE and Joint Venture Growth  TVEs have been one of the most dynamic sectors of the
economic boom in China in the past ten years. In the first quarter of 1994, TVE sales amounted to
Y494 billion ($57 billion), an increase of 83 percent over the first three months of 1993. The
Southwest Provinces have shown surprisingly rapid TVE growth: fixed asset investment in Guangxi
grew from Y7.2 billion to Y14.2 billion during 1993, representing real growth of 72 percent."9 TVEs
also make an important contribution to local employment, providing jobs for 11 percent of the rural
work force in Yunnan and almost 10 percent in Guizhou. However, TVEs have not kept pace in project
areas, due to the lack of basic infrastructure and investment capital has blocked the development of
agroprocessing, mineral processing and other industries.
19.    Joint venture investments have also jumped dramatically. Direct foreign investment was $25.8
billion in 1993 and $14.7 billion for the first half of 1994.2° This represents a substantial increase
from  1991, when foreign investment amounted to disbursements of $4.4 billion and commitments of
$12 billion. The majority were ventures involving less than half a million dollars in foreign funding.
In 1994, 5,500 new foreign investments were approved, mostly in labor-intensive manufacturing
industries such as toys, textiles and electronics.
20.    Changes in Urban Labor Market Policies  Urban workers have historically received favorable
treatment. The "iron rice bowl" system for urban workers has been characterized by (a) lifetime
employment with subsidies for housing, grain and health care, (b) wages which were not linked to
productivity, and (c) strict enforcement of the "hukou" residency registration system. The risk of urban
upheaval led to strict enforcement of residency registration from 1949 through the late 1970s.2'
21.    The economic reforms of the late 1970s led to increased demand for low skill laborers and a
more flexible interpretation of residency. When urban unemployment declined to nominal levels in
1983, millions of rural workers were permitted to migrate, temporarily or permanently, to the cities.
By 1984, there were few restrictions, as long as rural migrants could provide their own grain supply.
A 1986 CASS review of 90,000 laborers in 100 villages in four coastal provinces revealed that rural-to-
urban migration was an established practice, with migrants making up 17.6 percent of the labor force.
22.    To accommodate the demand for low skilled laborers, new legal definitions were developed for
rural laborers in urban firms. These include "workers outside the plan" and "rotation workers". These
workers can earn comparable wages, although non-wage benefits are limited. The system gained greater
18/ Interview with Du Ying, Ministry of Agriculture Office for Rural Reform, May 4, 1994.
19/ Guizhou Province's TVE fixed assets grew by 36% in 1993, while Yunnan's increase amounted to 58% during this period.
20/ Official govenunent statistics, cited in Economnist Intelligence Unit China and Moniolia Country Report, 3rd quarter, 1994.
21/ Some historians have pointed to parallels in which the Qin Dynasty (3rd century BC) and the Ming Dynasty (17th century) were destroyed by large
scale rebellions involving migrants. (Hsieh, pg. 89, in Yu, 1992).



- 100 -                                          Annex 4
legitimacy following State Council pronouncements in 1986, since it was consistent with state-owned
enterprise reforms giving firms control over hiring, wage levels and benefits. In August, 1989, it was
estimated that state-owned enterprises employed 13.3 million "temporary workers and workers outside
the plan" (of a total work force of 99.6 million).22 However, the urban social service safety net for
registered workers does not provide for rural migrants -- their safety net "consists of no more than a
ticket back to their area of origin. "23 A 1992 campaign against "the three irons" (the "iron rice bowl",
the "iron post" of lifelong tenure for enterprise officials, and the "iron wage packet" and subsidies)
reportedly met with widespread worker unrest.24
Effects of Labor Mobility
23.    Benefits of Labor Mobility  Interviews in upland counties in Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces
revealed that the household would benefit greatly by the decreased demand on its meager food supply,
even without remiUtances from migrants.2I Chronic grain deficits at the village and household level
increase the urgency of labor migration. Remittances are frequently used for basic necessities such as
farm inputs, school fees, medical expenses, and improvements to the walls and roof of the house. A
small share of remittances is often saved for the migrant worker, who typically returns to the area after
three to five years. These funds become the working capital for the migrant to establish a small
enterprise.26 Table 1 presents a list of benefits and risks from the household's perspective.
24.    Reported remittance levels reveal the promise of labor mobility as a source of cash income for
upland poor households and the local economy. The MOL estimated that 37 million rural migrants in
23 large cities remitted Y75 billion to their families. The annual per capita contribution of Y2000 per
migrant is far greater than per capita income for other rural households in poor counties (Y300) and
would help to meet the goal of Y500 established by the National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan. The
Guizhou Labor Bureau reported remittances of more than Y2 billion, sent by 800,000 women and
200,000 men outside the province. In some cases the remittances exceeded the county government's
own annual revenues.27
25.    Risks of Labor Mobility  Low skilled rural workers using spontaneous channels to find jobs are
extremely vulnerable to illness, accidents, hidden payroll reductions and other calamities -- in coal
mines, construction work and assembly line jobs. They often face unsafe working conditions,
substandard housing, unscrupulous firms, prostitution, and physical abuse. The number of fires and
22/ Korzec, 1992, pp. 30-44; Harrold and Lail, 1993, pp. 4142.
23/ China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, pg. 31.
24/ Country Rewort for China and Mongolia, Economist Intelligence Unit, 1993/94 summary report, pg. 25.
25/ Based on 35 household interviews conducted in Wuding and Luquan counties (Yunnan), Puding county (Guizhou), Mashan County (Guangxi).
26/ For IRR calculations in Annex 12, it is assumed that 60% of migrant laborer income covers living costs, and 40% can be remitted to the upland
household.
27/ China Daily, Business Weekly, July 25, 1994, pg. 6.



- 101 -                                           Annex 4
other on-site accidents which were reported increased markedly to 38,000 in 1993, as the number of
joint ventures jumped to 170,000. More than 2400 people died, 5900 were injured and property losses
amounted to $130 million. In the first half of 1994, more than 1,000 fatalities from  fires have been
reported, primarily in factories on the southern coast.28 Risks tend to be higher for upland minorities
and women, due to language difficulties and the growing prostitution trade in some cities.
26.    Large scale informal migration has contributed to a myriad of urban problems and resulted in
worker abuses. The arrival of millions of migrants has caused serious strains on urban housing, water,
sewer, communications, transportation and health systems. Beijing municipal authorities estimate that
migrants are responsible for 70 percent of crime in parts of the city.29  Although additional housing
stock is being constructed in cities such as Nanning (in Guangxi Autonomous Region), the rapid
increased demand for low income housing by migrants has led to the first signs of urban slums.
27.    Organized labor mobility also poses major organizational challenges for the upland counties as
well as municipalities which receive large numbers of migrants. Most project county governments do
not have a training system for surplus laborers, and they lack the funds required to independently
finance contract arrangements or send representatives to distant labor markets.30 In these counties
there are few traditional village networks with urban connections, like those in Sichuan and Zhejiang
Provinces.3' On the receiving end, housing stock is extremely limited and transportation systems can
be overwhelmed by seasonal demand caused by migrants.
28/ China Daily. Order targets lax fire safety'. August 22, 1994, page 3. Also Interview with Wang Aiwen, Ministry of Labor, May, 1994.
29/ China Daily. January 21, 1995, pg. 3.
30/ Interview with Yunnan Vice Govemor Huang, May 7. 1994; Various discussions with county labor bureau officials in Wuding and Luquan (Yunnan),
Mhshan (Guangxi) and Puding (Guizhou).
31/ In Sichuan Province, for example, established networks link dozens of villages to major markets (termed 'chain migration' by Hsieh, in Yu. 1992);
Also Schiff, Social Capital. Trade and Odtinal Migration Policies, World Bank, 1995.



- 102 -                                          Annex 4
Table 1: Potential Benefits and Risks of Labor Mobility
Household           Effects32
Potential           0 Increased family income and standard of living through remittances
Benefits            0 Greater awareness of worker rights
* New skills
* Contacts in labor markets
* Savings accumulation chance
* Greater awareness of the range of productive activities
Potential Risks    0 Possible loss of household property if collateral is required for job search
and Costs            loans
* Higher indebtedness
* Initial adjustment for worker
* No savings will be generated
* Reintegration problems
Government Responses to Labor Mobility
28.    The scale of rural-to-urban migration and the potential for instability which it represents have
led to two major policy initiatives in the last two years. The National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan
(1994) targets the elimination of absolute poverty in China by the Year 2000. The plan calls for
development of an "organized manpower exports to channel the transfer of manpower out of
impoverished areas", including employment and technical training. It establishes a goal of moving "a
single able-bodied member of each household into township and town enterprises or into developed
areas". This confirms an objective of the new seven year plan, which calls for improved access of the
poor to employment opportunities outside the poor areas.33
29.    In 1993, the State Council assigned the responsibility for managing rural labor mobility to the
Ministries of Labor and Communications.34 Provincial and county labor bureaus have historically been
responsible for redeployment of urban workers laid off from state-owned enterprises. The MOL has
kept the urban unemployment rate below 2.5 percent for the past decade, through skills training and
redeployment of unemployed workers. The MOL responded to the new assignment in November, 1993
with the Orderly Trans-regional Floating of Rural Labor". This has two objectives: (a) to foster and
develop the labor markets and (b) to strengthen the Labor Bureau employment service system. The
32/ Adapted from Issues in Gender and Development, Article on women migrant workers, pg. 8, Vol. #5, April, 1993. Asian and Pacific Development
Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
33/ This represents a major shift in labor market policies. From 1949 to the late 1970s, urban capital-intensive projects such as the "Third Line" and
emphasis on grain production strictly limited labor mobility.
34/ The Ministry of Railways manages the railway system, often a bottleneck during Spring Festival as millions of rural migrants return home. The Public
Security Bureau enforces household registration and controls urban crime, often attributed to migrant laborers.



- 103 -                                      Annex 4
State Council's allocation of Y15 million to the LGPR in 1994 to support interprovincial job placement
activities confirms its interest in addressing the issue in the short term.
30.    While there are clear signs of government support, the cost of complying with administrative
requirements is expensive for both the individual worker and the factory. Fees to the worker's village
or town can amount to Y300 to Y500, for certificates for family planning, education, and physical
examination. At the destination, there are additional fees. A work permit costs Y60 and the temporary
urban residency fee paid by the factory for local infrastructure construction and maintenance can be as
high as Y350.35 Average costs for the job search through spontaneous channels and employment
agencies range from Y150 to Y200, and there are reports of widespread abuses in the form of much
higher informal charges in some labor markets.
31.    Government willingness to experiment has encouraged new institutional arrangements, including
employment agencies and regional labor mobility information networks. County and provincial labor
bureau representation offices have sprung up in major coastal markets to gain a foothold in booming
urban labor markets. The MOL's Institute of Labor Studies and the Ministry of Agriculture's Office
of Rural Reform Experimental Areas have taken the lead in managing labor market initiatives.36
Lessons from the Guangban Municipality Labor Mobility System
32.    An innovative rural labor mobility initiative in Guanghan Municipality (Sichuan Province) was
recently highlighted by the National Conference on Rural Labor Resources (See Table 2). Six elements
have contributed to success: (a) municipal agents in coastal markets, (b) an inventory of surplus
laborers, (c) short-term skills training in municipal workshops, (d) the use of group contracts, (e)
carefully planned transportation, and (f) the use of market-oriented labor companies.37
Rural Labor Migrant Profiles in Proiect Areas
33.    Rural migrants are typically 16 to 35 years of age, have not completed primary education, and
have only rudimentary skills. About 50 percent find jobs in small township enterprises, joint ventures
or private firms, and the remainder work on construction sites or mines.38 Most women find jobs in
toy and electronics assembly plants, fireworks production and service industries. A 1994 report by the
Municipality of Shanghai of 113,000 migrant laborers revealed that 64 percent work in textiles,
construction and heavy industry, 9 percent are employed in machinery repair shops, 8 percent are sales
35/ Guangzhou Labor Bureau. September, 1994.
36/ Some of the research has been supported by the Ford Foundafion.
371 Hsich, pg. 92 in Yu.
38/ This profile is based on two studies: (a) Leading Group on Poverty Reduction review of provincial statistics, November, 1994; State Statistics Bureau
study of 600 households commissioned by the World Bank, October 1994.



- 104 -                                      Annex 4
staff, and 19 percent fall into other categories. One in eight adults in project areas searched for work
outside the village, with 33 percent remaining outside for more than 6 months.39
Table 2: Lessons from Guanghan Municipality
Seven principles can be extracted from the Guanghan efforts. An effective provincial
rural labor mobility strategy should attempt to:
*     Reach the greatest number of surplus laborers for the least cost
*     Target surplus laborers from poor counties
*     Develop a cost recovery system
*     Monitor work place safety and living conditions of the worker
*      Evaluate enterprise satisfaction with migrant workers
*      Monitor the effects of labor mobility on the household and village
*      Adjust rapidly to labor market changes
34.    Most migrants see urban employment as a short-term economic opportunity, rather than a
permanent change in residency. Local officials and researchers agree that the majority of rural migrants
return to upland counties after three to five years, although a significant number marry and remain in
cities, About 5 percent leave after three months, and an additional 5 percent return before the first one-
year contract is completed, due to health problems or an inability to adjust to the new setting.4'
Component Objectives and Activities
35.    Based on labor market demand and upland surplus labor profiles, the Labor Mobility component
establishes a cost-effective, market-oriented mechanism to: (a) identify job opportunities in local and
distant markets for up to 343,000 absolute poor from upland areas over five years and (b) provide basic
vocational skills and logistical support for voluntary migrants. The system builds on the experience and
infrastructure of county labor bureaus, and provides necessary safeguards and a monitoring system to
insure the safety and welfare of workers. Base costs for the component are Y395 million over six
years, representing 14 percent of project base costs.
36.    The Labor Mobility component is consistent with government plans to decontrol labor markets
and remove barriers to rural-to-urban labor mobility. It can provide an important testing ground for
assisting the flow of rural laborers into China's fast growing small and medium size cities as well as
large urban centers. Project activities will benefit from ongoing experiments and studies conducted by
the Ministries of Labor and Agriculture, with support from the Ford Foundation.
39/ SSB study comrnissioned by the World Bank, October, 1994.
40/ Discussions with Guangxi, Guizhou, Yunnan and Guangdong labor bureau officials. Statistics are not compiled on the number of migrants who return
to upland areas or the causes.



- 105 -                                  Annex 4
37.   The Labor Mobility Component would improve the effectiveness and outreach of the existing
labor mobility system by developing:  (a) targeting strategies to reach the absolute poor, (b) a
computerized information system to provide job market information to project counties, (c) basic
vocational skills training by reimbursing firms for training costs and by developing links to training
centers, (d) monitoring systems, and (e) financing and remittance arrangements. (See Table 6 for a
summary of the labor mobility system.)
38.   These five elements would contribute to an orderly, safe, productive rural labor transfer without
leading to a "managed labor system". The project would provide workers with basic skills (by
reimbursing enterprises for costs) and a one-year contract, renewable based on the needs of the firm
and the performance of the worker. Firms would receive short term financial incentives and assurances
of prompt problem resolution from the MOL. It is a "market friendly" approach with adequate
safeguards and institutional development activities to insure adjustments based on evaluation findings
and labor market changes. A one-year pilot phase would enable LGPR, the MOL, provincial and
county labor bureaus to adjust implementation based on expected changes in the regulatory framework
and labor markets (Annex 4, paras 66-68).41
39.   Targeting and Orientation  A transparent labor mobility promotion system would be developed
based on clearly defined criteria to insure appropriate targeting. Community participation would play
a central role. Administrative and natural village leaders would coordinate planning and promotion
activities with county labor bureau officials. The project would target surplus laborers who have little
or no experience working outside the community and come from households with the most surplus
laborers.
40.   Candidates would not need a high school diploma, since most of the jobs require vocational
skills which can be provided by the enterprises (Annex para 46). Agreement has been reached with
provincial labor bureaus that 50 percent of the migrants assisted under the project will have less than
complete primary school education. This will effectively target poor households. Incentives and
emphasis on local job placement for women and ethnic minorities would encourage county labor bureaus
to provide these groups with a representative share of job opportunities.
41.   The provincial offices of the All-China Women's Federation (ACWF) would provide women
with an orientation session on the risks of labor mobility, including sexual exploitation, crime and
enforcement of workers' legal rights. When local conditions warrant, these orientation sessions would
be offered in minority languages. In some project counties, the ACWF already facilitates women's
labor mobility to nearby towns, counties and provinces for domestic work and factory jobs.42
42.   Mashan County (Guangxi) is one of the "prototype counties" appraised by a September, 1994
Bank Group mission. Mashan County has established village committees to select, orient and mobilize
labor mobility candidates. The village committees have proposed four selection criteria to choose
41/ Chart 1. on page 116, summarizes the steps of the Labor Mobility System.
4V2 China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, 1992, pg. 48; Interviews with ACWF officials in project provinces.



- 106 -                                Annex 4
candidates: (a) the number of surplus laborers in the household, (b) voluntary commitment to complete
a one-year contract, (c) the health of the laborer and (d) household acceptance of the financial obligation
involved. An orientation to the labor mobility component for all households with surplus laborers would
be part of the transparent system developed by Mashan County.
43.   Labor Market Information System  To locate the highest possible number of appropriate jobs,
a diversified job identification strategy would be developed for target counties in coordination with
provincial labor bureau officials. The bureaus would coordinate with counterparts in fast-growing
markets such as Guangdong and Beihai, as well as working with TVEs in nearby towns. Important
sources of information on employment opportunities would include labor bureau and private employment
agencies, construction contractors, private firms, joint ventures and municipal governments.
44.   The management information system would be established to link provincial and county offices
with LGPR and Provincial Labor Bureau representatives in major labor markets. This computerized
system would monitor changes in the scale of demand, skills mix and contract legal requirements.
Projected labor requirements would be collected on a regular basis from municipalities (including
Shanghai, Beihai, Nanning and Fangcheng) for public works such as construction of roads, port
facilities, low income housing, sewer systems, and potable water systems.
45.   Selection of participating factories would be based on specific criteria which emphasize safety
records and working conditions. Special care would be taken to review safety records and worker
conditions in joint ventures with less than 100 workers, since these are the enterprises with the most
frequently reported cases of worker abuse and accidents. Some types of factories with especially poor
worker safety records, such as fireworks production, would be subject to special review.
46.   Enterr rise Reimbursement for Skills Training  The project's emphasis on skills training is
consistent with the National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan. The two forms of training provided by the
component reflect the Bank Group's experiences in vocational training. The first type of training is an
orientation to urban life, including a simple aptitude test adapted to candidates with low literacy skills
(Annex 4 para 40). Labor mobility candidates would be classified into key skills categories based on
abilities, preferences and expected levels of demand. Basic skills training would be provided by the
enterprises which participate in the labor mobility system, and they would receive reimbursement for
training costs incurred during the first two months. Interviews with enterprises in Dongguan and
Qingyuan (Guangdong) and Beihai (Guangxi), and Pudong (Shanghai) reveal that a reimbursement
strategy would be the most effective means of providing rural migrants with assembly line production
and other skills. Alternative training channels such as the use of existing training centers would be
reviewed during the one-year pilot phase.
47.   Labor Market Selection There are three segments of labor markets which offer appropriate job
opportunities to the upland poor during the next five to ten years: (a) large urban centers in the Yangtze
River and Pearl River Deltas, (b) fast growing urban centers in Guangxi, and (c) TVEs in project
provinces. These would provide full-time jobs which would be relatively easy to monitor. Other
opportunities as "temporary" and "floating" workers (such as porters, construction workers, and



- 107 -                                        Annex 4
seasonal agricultural day labor), do not offer a cost-effective, secure solution to the need for jobs for
the upland poor, and are not pursued by LGPR or the Labor Bureaus.
48.    Labor Market Opportunities in Large Cities   Shanghai, Guangzhou and rapidly expanding
satellite industrial zones such as Dongguan and Qingyuan are promising markets for rural migrants
assisted under the project. The Municipality of Shanghai has a current immigrant population of 3.3
million and estimates an annual increase of 11.4 percent in demand for labor-intensive industries,
services (hotels, restaurants), cargo handling and trades. The Pudong (Shanghai) Labor Bureau believes
that 85,000 to 90,000 upland migrants could be absorbed from project areas over a six-year period.
Construction, textiles and other labor-intensive manufactured goods are leading the economic sectors.
The Pearl River Delta labor market (including Guangzhou) already includes more than 6 million migrant
workers and is growing at an annual rate of 8 percent. Growth industries include toys, electronics
assembly, and construction.43
49.    Guangxi Municipal Employment Development Subcomponent  The second market segment
includes three fast growing cities in Guangxi Province -- Nanning, Beihai and Fangcheng. Nanning's
diversified industrial base and relative proximity to upland counties provides a ready market for surplus
laborers. According to Beihai Municipality, industrial sectors with large annual growth rates and
significant low skilled labor demand are feed processing, beverage manufacture and raw materials
processing." Fangcheng's port development should spur growth in other areas, creating thousands
of jobs for migrants. (See Annex 5 for additional information on subcomponent activities, investments
and employment generation.)
50.    To take advantage of these markets, the project would provide a $47.5 million hard loan for
urban development and agriculture activities in Nanning, Beihai and Fangcheng. It would support
development of a "poverty reduction industrial zone" for labor-intensive industries (Beihai),
unsubsidized low cost housing (Nanning slum improvement; dormitory construction for migrant workers
in Nanning and Fangcheng), mariculture (Beihai) and fast-growing variety tree plantations (Nanning).
Over a six-year period, these projects would provide more than 19,000 full-time and 17,500 seasonal
jobs for upland surplus laborers.45  The cost per permanent job generated (Y25,000) is comparable to
the average for TVE job creation under the project. This subcomponent does not require any
resettlement or relocation activities.
51.    TVE Labor Markets The rapid growth of local TVEs is also a labor mobility opportunity for
the upland poor. TVE employment has grown from 11 percent of total employment in Guangxi in 1990
to more than 19 percent in 1993, buoyed by rapid TVE growth in coastal areas. However, TVE
43/ Interview with Pudong Labor Bureau, December, 1994; Leading Group on Poverty Reduction Labor Market Study, October, 1994, Chreod China
update, 1994.
44/ Statistics provided by Beihai Municipality on Gross Output Value, June 1993 to June 1994. 'Me Guangxi Municipal Enterprise Development
Subcomponent of the Labor Mobility Component would support local enterprise development in Beihai to promote jobs creation for upland migrants. (See
Annex 5).
45/ Due to their links to other project activities and relative proximity to urban areas, the 17,500 seasonal jobs created by the Guangxi Metropolitan
Employment Development Subcomponent could be monitored effectively.



- 108 -                                       Annex 4
workers continue to represent a relatively low share of the total workforce in Guizhou and Yunnan
(slightly more than the national TVE share of 9 percent in 1980). Investment comparisons reveal a
chronic lack of capital for TVEs in Southwest China, due in part to inadequate transportation and a
weak industrial base.   TVE fixed asset loan applications in Guizhou from  1985 to 1990 were Y710
million, but only Y260 million was financed by banks. Total TVE investment in Guizhou in 1993
amounted to Y830 million, a per capita investment of Y28.5. By comparison, TVE investment in the
Eastern region reached Y130.2 billion, equal to a per capita investment of Y395.
52.    The provincial and county TVE and labor bureaus have agreed that all low skilled jobs created
by TVE expansion or establishment which are financed by the project will be offered to migrants from
project areas. For some project counties, such as Puding County (Guizhou), this is equivalent to 60
percent of the target established for labor mobility for the six-year project. Investments supported by
the TVE component would lead to the creation of 29,500 jobs in project areas, with more than 75
percent during the first three years of the project.
53.    The TVE component would support 209 enterprises, amounting to a total investment of Y478
million. The component would support expansion or creation of 123 agroprocessing firms, 26 mining
operations, 8 companies providing services, and 4 handicrafts manufacturers in local towns.
Agroprocessing activities include silk reeling, forest products, tea, fruits and a wide range of local food
and medicinal products. The average TVE investment would be Y2.2 million, and would provide
employment for 140 upland migrants, at a cost of Y25,500 per job. Women would make up at least
80 percent of the labor force in some sectors, such as carpet weaving, embroidery and fruit processing.
54.    Job Identification: Indicative Targets    It is estimated that local TVEs would employ
approximately 25 percent of the workers, with 50 percent absorbed by TVEs and state-owned
enterprises within the province and the remaining workers placed in other provinces. The indicative
targets (presented in Table 3) are based on a six-year project which divides the labor markets by
destination and type of firm. Estimates are based on county and provincial Labor Bureau experience,
as well as labor market growth, historical demand for low skilled workers, a recent governmnit estimate
of the number of surplus laborers in project areas, and very conservative drop-out rate estimates.46
46/ Calculations in Table 3 are based on three assumptions: (a) the phasing of targets over the six year period is 8% for the first year, 12% for the second
year, and 20% for the subsequent four years, for a total of 343,000; (b) the Guangxi Subcomponent is phased in as 5,000 workers the first year, 10,000
the second year, and the remaining initial grup of 4,000 during the third year; and (c) drop-out rates are 40% by the end of the second year for each
cohort.



- 109 -                                    Annex 4
Table 3: Indicative Migrant Employment Targets
Indicative Targets           Guangi       Gulzbou      Yunnan       Subtotal     TOTAL
Interprovlncdal              *0040        45,480       28,480                     114,000
Shanghai/Yangtze River     31,611       35,905       22,484       90,000
Guangzhou/Pearl River      3,300        3,700         3,000       10,000
Other Cities               5.129        5.875         2.996       14.000
Provindal                    57,000       48,000       57,000                     162,000
Beihai (GMEDS)             26,600          -            -         26,600
Nanning (GMEDS)            5,700           -            -          5,700
Fangcheng (GMEDS)          5,700           -            -          5,700
Provincial Capital         11,400       28,800       34,200       74,400
Other Cities               7.600        19.200       22.800       49.600
County Level                 15,600       14,300       37,100          -          67,000
Project TVEs               7,946        7,680        18,000       33,626
Other TVEs                 4,592        3,972        11,460       20,024
Other finms/municipality   3,061        2,648         3,924        9,633
I                  -------TL  112-640      107.780      122.580                   343000
55.   Worker Safety Monitoring   A monitoring plan focusing on fair treatment of workers and
workplace safety has been designed by the LGPR and MOL, based on five years of provincial and
county labor bureau experiences. The LGPR, provincial labor bureaus and the ACWF would each
responsible for specific monitoring, reporting and evaluation activities. Incentives would be established
to encourage county labor bureaus to place women and ethnic minorities. The preference would be to
place more vulnerable groups with local firms, where monitoring would be the direct responsibility of
local county labor bureaus.
56.   Indicators of component effectiveness are:  (a) wage and remittance levels, (b) job safety
records, (c) dormitory conditions, (d) conditions faced by women workers, (e) resolution of labor
disputes involving migrants, (f) cost per job created, (g) handling of overtime assignments to migrant
workers, and (h) contract completion rates. The All-China Women's Federation would develop a
special monitoring system to detect cases of sexual exploitation and report them to the authorities. The
safety performance of joint ventures with less than 100 employees would be monitored with greater
frequency.
57.   When monitoring agencies detect unsafe working or living conditions, the project will ensure
that corrective actions are taken and the appropriate authorities are informed (including the Public
Security Bureau and the Ministry of Industry). In January, 1995, the MOL issued more stringent



- 110 -                                         Annex 4
regulations for worker safety and worker legal rights, with increased penalties for violations.4 These
new standards provide the legal basis for seeking remedies for unfairly treated workers and improving
working and living conditions.
58.    Financial Arrangements  The project would establish a financially sound system  for rural-to-
urban labor mobility which emphasizes cost coverage. Significant cost recovery would be achieved
through payroll deductions for workers placed in enterprises with more than 50 workers. Mechanisms
which insure the security of remittances from migrants to upland households would also be established,
possibly through a voucher system. Table 4 below presents the procedures and practices which would
be adopted to insure an acceptable level of cost recovery.
59.    Two of the most important techniques to promote significant cost coverage would be (a) the use
of groups and (b) a household and village responsibility system with credible incentives and sanctions.
Groups of 5 to 10 labor mobility candidates would be established during orientation. These self-
selecting groups would select a group leader who would be responsible for group discipline, including
on-the-job performance and timely cost recovery contributions through secure channels to the LGPR,
local Labor Bureau, or their designates.
60.    The use of peer groups is similar to the informal system  used by some enterprises to offer
recruitment fees to workers who return from Spring Festival with relatives or friends who are offered
limited training and a one-year contract. This mechanism's success is due to the chance for peers to
discuss the benefits and risks of a specific labor mobility opportunity. Groups have also been effective
as a joint liability system in several successful formal and informal group-based savings and credit
systems serving the poor throughout Asia and Latin America. The concept of migrant groups has also
been widely accepted by households with surplus laborers, village leaders, LGPR component designers
and county and provincial Labor Bureau representatives.
61.    The second cost recovery technique would be a shared responsibility system  involving the
migrant, the group, the household and the village. If migrants from a village perform poorly in terms
of work, discipline or on-time cost coverage, the village committee would be expected to take
immediate action to correct the situation. Incentives would include increased access to labor mobility
slots, while sanctions would entail temporary suspension from component participation. This approach
would build on historic practices of shared labor arrangements and mutual food security in the upland
villages. The use of groups is considered to be an effective means of preserving social cohesion and
establishing a support group for more vulnerable migrants, such as women and ethnic minorities (mainly
Miao, Buyi, Zhuang and Yi).48 In addition, villages have experience in mutual responsibility from
47/ Regulations on Labor Supervision, No. 167, 1993; Notice on Ensuring Guarantee on the Legal Rights and Benefits of Enterprise Workers, No. 246.
1993; No. 333, Minimum Salary Regulations; The Ensurance Law on Women's Rights and Benefits, 1992.
48/ The importance of preserving social cohesion at distant job sites was a key conclusion of Dr. Robert Weller, Associate Professor in Anthropology,
Boston University (Institute for the Study of Economic Culture). Dr. Weller participated in field visits in Guizhou and Guangxi in September, 1994.
(Section 2.3, pp. 10-11, October 20, 1994 trip report)



- 111 -                                           Annex 4
the commune work points system in the 1970s to village leader participation in activating Ministry of
Civil Affairs resources in emergencies49.
Table 4: Operational Policies to Insure Adequate Cost Recovery
1.    Sufficient income to cover costs within 12 to 18 months would be a consideration in job selection.
2.    Shared responsibilitv and hinh visibility Responsibility for the loan will be given to the worker, the group,
the household, and the village committee (para 60).
3.    Rewards for strong performance Villages, townships, counties and provinces will be rewarded by the
program based on cost recovery, based on Central Labor Mobility component incentive schemes.
4.    Groups of candidates would be organized during village orientation to share responsibility for on-time
payments and for organizing remittances (para 59).
5.    A village committee responsibilitv system would be employed, including performance-based rewards and
credible sanctions. Failure to remedy the problems could result in suspension from component activities until
effective corrective actions are taken (para 60).
6.    In-kind support would be provided for services, work and residency fees by LGPR or the local Labor
Bureau. Cash provided to migrants would be limited to food and personal goods during the first two months.
7.    A Reserve Fund would be set up to cover the costs of transportation to the village of origin for those
migrants unable to adjust to the new work environment (estimated to be around 10% for the first two years,
based on provincial and county Labor Bureau experiences from 1991 to 1994.)5
8.    Payroll deduction systems would be used under appropriate conditions.
9.    Secure remittance channels would be developed by the joint entity (possibly based on a voucher system) to
insure that households receive the full amount sent.
10.   Careful control through computerized records would allow county Labor Bureaus to notify village committees
of upcoming payments.
62.    The net financial gains for the upland household would be a key indicator of component success.
The estimated financial rate of return, using very conservative figures, is 91 percent due largely to the
existing wage rate differentials for rural and urban low skilled jobs, and could easily cover costs within
12 to 18 months (Annex 12). The component's monitoring system would detect cases in which cost
recovery mechanisms cause undue hardship on upland households. A pilot phase evaluation would
49/ China: Strategies for Reducina Poverty in the 1990s, World Bank Country Study, 1992, pp. 108-11 1.
50/ Based on risk and cost differentials, reserve fund contributions are Y160 for interprovincial migrants, YI 10 for provincial and Y60 for county
placement. This has been estimated to be 10 percent per year for the first two years, based on provincial and county Labor Bureau experiences from 1991
to 1994.



- 112 -                                            Annex 4
permit the labor mobility system's financial arrangements to be adjusted before large numbers of
villages and households become involved (Annex 4, para 66).
Table 5: Projected Unit Costs
for Three Labor Markets (Yuan) 5
Unit Cost Estimates for                    Interprovincial           Provincial           County
Job Placement Locations
Selection and Orientation
*  Training fee                                   50                    40                30
*  Transportation                                250                    70                20
*  Accommodations fee                             120                   80                60
*  Health check-up                                50                    50                20
*  Settlement (work                              200                   130                60
clothes, bedding)
Enterprise Training and Placement
*  Enterprise training                           200                   200                150
*  Registration fee                              217                   100                 30
*  Management fee                                 100                   40                 20
*  Labor contract deposit                        200                   100                 50
*  Settling-in Allowance                         300                   150                 90
Monitoring and Reserves
*  Insurance                                     100                    80                 80
*  Monitoring                                     50                    50                 30
*  Reserve Fund                                  160                   110                 60
TOTAL UNIT COST (Y)                                2000                 1200                700
Unit Cost Contributions:
Local Counterpart                           680 (34%)            350 (29%)          160 (23%)
Bank Group Share                           1320 (66%)            850 (71%)          540 (77%)
63.    Institutional Development   The joint entity formed by LGPR and MOL would manage the
project's central Labor Mobility component fund of Y1 11 million, including a Y15 million grant from
the  State  Council.   Its responsibilities would  be (a) to  establish  a job  placement system  for
interprovincial labor mobility, including (i) labor market analysis outside the project provinces and (ii)
51! Figures in the Table 5 are based on the following: (a) training fee covers a 10-day orientation (cases of 50) and a special orientadon for interprovisl
migrants; (b) interprovincial transportation is based on the cost of a roundtrip train ticket (hard seat) from Guiyang to Shanghai; (c) registration fees include
the family planning card, identification card, temporary residential card, temporary worker permit, and provincial border card; (d) accommodations are
for two months during and after placement; (e) work and residency permits are included in the registraton fee; (f) settling-in allowance covers food expenses
for two months; (g) reserve fund is based on a drop-out rate of 9%.



- 113 -                                  Annex 4
a computerized dissemination system to provide timely information to project counties and provinces,
and (b) to provide training on operations, reporting and procedures to county labor bureau staff. A
consultative body would be established, consisting of representatives of the ACWF, the Public Security
Bureau and the Ministries of Construction and Industry. The new joint entity has been designed to
minimize bureaucratic tendencies and avoid high fees which are prevalent in some existing institutional
labor mobility channels. It would also overcome traditional biases against more remote counties,
women and ethnic minorities, and develop effective safeguards.
64.   To accomplish these objectives, the joint entity would be responsible for seven activities. The
first would be to provide training and technical assistance to county and provincial Labor Bureau
personnel in aptitude testing, financial management, market development and counseling (with special
attention to the needs of women and ethnic minorities from orientation through placement). Specific
skills required include management of information systems (for market demand, surplus labor statistics
and skills inventories), curriculum development, trainee certification, marketing and labor dispute
resolution. Both pre-job training for new staff and periodic activities to upgrade and broaden the skills
of existing staff members would be provided. Other activities would include:
*     Seminars and exchanges between county and provincial labor bureau staff would be organized.
The joint entity would also participate in seminars on MOL and MOA labor mobility
experimental projects underway throughout the country, sponsored in part by the Ford
Foundation.52
*     Monitoring systems for worker safety and dormitory conditions would be developed. The joint
entity would coordinate these activities with local ACWF offices.
*     Secure remittance channels would be developed and tested by the joint entity, sharing results
with county and provincial Labor Bureaus.
*     Evaluation of the one-year pilot phase would be coordinated by the joint entity, enabling village
leaders, county and provincial Labor Bureau staff and outside experts to participate in the
evaluation.
*     Management and Financial Audits would be arranged by the joint entity, to insure that effective
management systems are in place at the county, provincial and central levels.
*     Labor Mobility Policy and Regulatory Framework Recommendations would be reviewed by the
joint entity, as part of the evaluation activities, and a report would be issued to LGPR, MOL
and the Bank Group.
65.   Progress in Institutional Development In August, 1994, the LGPR took four steps which
demonstrate a strong commitment to the Labor Mobility component, including: (a) establishment of
52/ Nick Menzies (Agriculture Project Officer) and Stephen McGurk (Labor Markets Project Officer) of the Ford Foundation office in Beijing have been
actively supporting component development since January, 1994.



- 114 -                                       Annex 4
a Labor Mobility Division staffed with one professional and two assistants, (b) allocation of Y1 11
million from central project funds to support component activities, (c) negotiation of a Y15 million State
Council grant for the labor mobility component, and (d) discussions with the Municipality of Shanghai
concerning contracts for low skilled workers. The LGPR and the Bank Group also completed the first
phase of a labor market demand study, focusing on job opportunities for low skilled upland laborers in
Shanghai and Guangzhou.
66.    Pilot Phase  Preparations by LGPR, MOL and the Bank Group have set the stage for a one-year
pilot phase which would allow for experimentation before large scale operations are undertaken. The
project would evaluate the following innovative elements of the labor mobility system during the pilot
phase: (i) the use of groups for mobilization, orientation and monitoring; (ii) alternative remittance
channels, (iii) the potential for cost recovery through payroll deductions, (iv) monitoring systems for
the factory, dormitory and upland village, (v) legal remedies for worker safety and rights violations,
and (vi) the effectiveness of staff training, technical assistance and networking activities.
67.    The pilot phase would also permit the project to incorporate findings from  labor mobility
research supported by the MOL and the Ford Foundation. Since there are 556 low income counties
outside the project areas which could benefit from project experiences, the pilot phase will be carefully
documented.53 In addition, pilot activities have been supported by retroactive financing since January,
1995, providing early experiences upon which to base component design adjustments.
68.    Village level monitoring during the pilot phase is critical for three reasons: (i) the effectiveness
of targeting poor households with the most surplus laborers, (ii) detection of any unexpected seasonal
labor shortages, and (iii) the increasing incidence of kidnapping young women for forced marriage,
disguised as an informal labor mobility program. "Abductions" were frequently cited in interviews with
ethnic minority households.'
69.    Risks  There are six risks associated with assisting surplus laborers from upland counties to
enter large urban markets: (a) difficulties with monitoring worker safety and living conditions, (b)
challenges in the face of dynamic market demand, (c) problems with migrant worker adjustment to
urban life and factory work, (d) increased urban unemployment from failing state-owned enterprises,
(e) potential new controls on labor mobility, and (f) macroeconomic risks such as inflation and controls
on foreign investment.
70.    The possibility of large scale layoffs of state-owned enterprise employees could affect major
urban markets. State-owned enterprises employ 103 million people and suffer losses of Y30 billion to
Y50 billion annually.55 The government recently decided to implement economic and financial
53/ For exanple, aras such s wrdiem Sichuan an southem Gansu face similar constraints and labor market inperfections, and share similar demographic
characteristics.
54/ Household interviews in Guizhou (January, 1994) uad Yunnan (May, 1994); Weller, 1994.
55/ Merchant Bank Bearings Securities, reported in China News Digest, August 29, 1994, by APP.



- 115 -                               Annex 4
stabilization policies for state-owned enterprises in the largest 18 cities to update technologies, remove
excessive social burdens and provide development funds to minimize urban unemployment risks.
71.   Ongoing collaboration between LGPR, MOL and the Bank Group have identified and responded
to these risks. Monitoring systems (Annex 4, para 55-57) and the computerized market information
management system (Annex 4, para 44) address the first two risks. Orientation sessions by the LGPR,
county labor bureau and the ACWF respond to the third concern (Annex 4, para 41). The joint entity's
consultative body (Annex 4, para 63) and policy orientation (Annex 4, para 64) address the other risks.
72.   The LGPR, MOL and Bank Group recognize that this innovative component faces higher than
normal risks due to the high level of vulnerability of the clients and the nature of labor mobility
activities in a changing economic and legal setting -- and the component has been designed to minimize
these risks to the greatest possible degree. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (a) labor
mobility would be undertaken only on a strictly voluntary basis, and (b) an adequate monitoring and
reporting system, focusing on fair treatment of workers and workplace safety, would be designed and
implemented.
Integration with Other ComDonents
73.   Labor Mobility component activities would be integrated with other project components both
directly and indirectly. Direct links with enterprises supported under the TVE component have already
been developed (See Annex 4, para 53 for detailed information). The Rural Infrastructure component
would identify a large number of potential labor migrants, based on performance in component
activities. Since household interviews revealed that remittances are often used for health care expenses
and school fees, the Social Services component would be supported by labor mobility. Finally,
information from the Poverty Monitoring component would provide a means of confirming village level
effects of labor mobility.



Chart 1: Labor Mobility System
Village Orientation and                Training and Management              Market Development, Placement
Data Collection                                                                    & 7raining
Skills Training                         Provincial Market Placement
Promotion                               *      Technical skills (predictable)    *      county TVEs, provincial TVEs
*     Household   orientation   to      *      Special skills training           *     Municipal  contracts  and
benefits and risks                *     Urban life skills                        agreements (GMEDS), Beihai,
*     Coordination   with  village      *      Certificates                             Nanning, Fangcheng.
management committee
Monitoring                              Established Markets Placement
Data Collection                         *      Local labor disputes, accidents,  *      Shanghai (Yantgze River Delta)  L
*     Data  management  system                 work  safety  and  living         *     Guangzhou (Pearl River Delta)   c
(name,  age,  village  name,            conditions
skills, nationality of surplus    *     Household effects (village)        Workplace Monitoring
laborers)                                                                  *     Labor disputes
Market Management                       *      Work safety/accident reports
*     Contact local TVEs                *      Living conditions
*     Respond  to  demand  from
growing markets                   Institutional Development
*     Country labor bureaus
Financial Management                    *      Joint entity staff
*     Cost Recovery System
*     Remittance security



- 117 -                                Annex 5
China
Southwest China Povertv Reduction Project
Guangxi Municipal Employment Development Subcomponent
Introduction
1.    Rural-Urban Migration A key element of China's strategy to alleviate absolute poverty
among southwest China's upland communities is to develop their labor exports in order to
generate remittances and relieve population pressures in the poor households. A labor market
for migrant workers has already emerged, with millions employed in China's major centers of
economic growth such as Guangdong and the Yangtze Delta. Migrants, male and female, are
employed mainly in labor intensive sectors such as construction, stevedoring and light industry.
In the established formal markets, local labor bureaus intervene to regulate the flow and monitor
working conditions but the majority of migrants (some 80 percent) venture out informally,
sometimes with families. After decades of strict controls many coastal cities are now actively
encouraging immigration. The surge in growth caused by China's adoption of a market based
economy is generating millions of jobs that cannot be filled by city labor forces constrained by
urban family planning controls and underproductive due to lifelong habits of restrictive labor
practices and soft budget constraints in state owned enterprises.
2.    Populous provinces like Sichuan have long-established access to the coastal province labor
markets but, for reasons due mainly to remoteness, Guangxi and its poor neighbors account for
only two percent of migrants in the Shanghai market for example. Such markets seek supplies
of educated, capable labor provided through reliable mechanisms. Guangxi labor lacks the links
to major areas of demand, even within province, partly due to a relatively undeveloped labor
bureau intermediary role. The project would help establish an intermediary mechanism for both
interprovincial and intraprovincial movement for workers from Guangxi's poor areas and from
twelve targeted poor counties in particular.
3.    China's cities in general are just beginning to face the prospect of major population
fluctuations. Their strictly planned urban settlements make little provision for unregistered
residents "outside the plan". In wealthier cities the employing enterprises provide simple
dormitory accommodation and basic services including canteens to migrant workers.
Construction contractors -- often successful bidders from other cities -- move in their teams en-
bloc and set up camps on site for their workers. In less wealthy cities such as Nanning, capital
of Guangxi Province, many industries can not provide accommodation and migrants are left to
their own initiatives - renting space where available, lodging with relatives or compatriots,



- 118 -                                Annex 5
setting up squatter settlements, and -- in the semi-tropical conditions of the region -- even
sleeping on the streets.
Guan,exi Urban Development
4.          China's local government managers bear much of the brunt of economic reform's
practical consequences. Recent fiscal reforms have reduced the share of tax revenue retained
by local governments, exacerbating the tax base weaknesses of less developed cities. Price
controls on public services and utilities constrain revenues and the ability to expand services.
At the same time the separation of government and industry (and the separation of taxes and
profits) is increasingly reducing local governments' former control over investment decision
making, yet attraction of new industry and external investment is crucial to growth. Guangxi's
attraction is based on typical local tax exemption incentives but which, together with low wage
rates and good transport services, appeal to relocating or expanding enterprises anticipating a
boom in the development of the southwestern region. These conditions are also attractive to
enterprises no longer competitive in higher cost areas such as Guangzhou and Shanghai.
5.    Growth has come late to Guangxi Province, western neighbor to burgeoning Guangdong
and the home, in its mountainous region, to many of China's absolute poor. Guangxi's economy
was declared open only in 1992 but the province is losing no time in pursuing its natural
advantages -- in particular its position as the head of the transport corridor serving the entire
southwest region, including Yunnan, Guizhou and Sichuan, known as the "Great Southwest".
Like the established economic centers elsewhere, Guangxi's nascent industrial sectors also
require migrant labor, but the absence of formal markets in context of financially weak local
government is leading to informal squatter settlements and social welfare concerns.
6.    Housing in Guangxi's cities has typically been the responsibility of enterprises under the
direction of the housing bureau. As a key element of enterprise reform in China, housing and
social security responsibilities are to be transferred to the public sector and various ad hoc
arrangements have emerged to finance such undertakings. Most housing programs continue to
be subsidized and are severely limited by the shortage of local government finance. Formal
housing availability in Guangxi's cities is below the national average for similar sized cities of
equivalent rank.
7.    Migration within Guangxi therefore faces the problems of finding jobs and
accommodation, and avoiding becoming a burden on strained city services and welfare systems.
The Guangxi municipal employment development subcomponent aims to minimize the risks
associated with these problems in experimental efforts to provide jobs and accommodation
without creating additional burdens for the municipalities concerned.  The participating
municipalities of Beihai, Fangcheng and Nanning (the provincial capital) account for over 40
percent of Guangxi's GDP and offer good prospects for new jobs and sustained employment.
Details of the respective municipal economies are given in Attachment 1 which illustrates key



- 119 -                                 Annex 5
differences among them. In particular, Nanning has a broad industrial base, growing quickly
but a low wage structure and a severe housing shortage. Fangcheng is the location of the major
seaport serving the Great Southwest and is expected to grow rapidly but, with a small tax base
and many competing investment needs, has little to spare for housing. Beihai, long known as
a resort area and also a port, recently has been the focus of much speculation in real estate
development and is now attempting to diversify its economy into light industry.
Subcomponent Description
8.    Subcomponent Objectives   The objectives of the Guangxi Municipal Employment
Development (GX-MEDS) subcomponent are to: (a) create secure job opportunities in the
municipalities of Beihai, Fangcheng and Nanning for migrant workers from Guangxi's poor
upland areas, and (b) demonstrate low-income housing options for single migrant workers. The
three municipalities expect to absorb some 350,000 migrant workers over the next five years,
mainly through informal channels. SWPRP's Labor Mobility Component would attempt to bring
about 20 percent of the migrants within an organized labor mobility system serving twelve
targeted upland poverty counties (more fully described in Annex 4). In support of this effort,
the municipalities have committed to offer incentives to new enterprises willing to employ the
workers from this source.  At the same time they require help to develop employment
opportunities and accommodation facilities for migrants. In Beihai the project would support
job creation initiatives in urban and rural enterprises. In Fangcheng and Nanning (the provincial
capital) the project would support low income rental housing development for single workers as
well as job creation in rural enterprises. The eight subprojects and their expected employment
impacts are summarized in Table 1 below. A small technical assistance and training fund would
be held by the Guangxi Project Management Office for financing of key technical assistance and
training needs of the project enterprises.
Estimated Subcomponent Cost Summary and Financing Plan
9.    The subcomponent is estimated to cost in total about Y751.4 million (US$ 85 million
equivalent), including land, and physical and price contingencies (see Table 2 below for cost
summary). Base costs are estimated in December 1994 prices. Physical contingencies average
6,5 percent of the base cost. Price contingencies, averaging 19.5 percent, have been calculated
for both foreign and local costs using Bank estimated escalation factors/'.
/1   Annual inflation factors (12/94):
1995        1996        1997         1998         1999-03
Foreign (%)        1.5          1.8         2.6          2.5          2.5
Domestic (%)       14.0        10.5         8.5          7.0          6.5



- 120 -                                                   Annex 5
Table 1: Guangxi Municipal Employment Sub-Component; Employment Data
Permanent jobs                  Investment              Construction
City/Project                Base cost                   created/a                cost/job              and seasonal
(Y million)                                          (Y'000)              jobs created/b
Nannina:
Tree crops                    37.0                          1,566                   23,600                     6,190
Forestry                      27.8                           300                    92,700                     5,587
Housing/c                     62.8                            108                      n/a                       700
Beihai:
Aquaculture                  175.9                         5,077                    34,600                       380
Vegetables                    61.2                         2,200                    27,800                     3,300
Enterp. Zone                  87.3                         8,000                    10,900                     1,200
Fangcheng:
Aquaculture                   88.7                          1,800                   49,300                       110
Housing/c                     40.6                            65                       n/a                      420
Total                 581.3                        19,116                   25.000                    17.887
/a       Permanent jobs would be filled by both local and migrant workers of which at least 70 percent would be migrants from designated
Guangxi project upland counties.
/b       Seasonal (2-3 months per year) and construction jobs during project period are expected to be filled almost entirely by migrnts,
originating mainly from the project counties.
/c       Low income housing projects not aimed at direct employment generation but would provide 36,500 living spaces for migrant workers,
70 percent of which would be from project counties (Nanning 29,000 and Fangcbeng 17,500). Rural and urban enterprises supported
by the subcomponent would provide dormitories for their permanent workers (about 15,000 spaces) and camps for seasonal workers.
10.      The Bank would finance 55 percent of the estimated total project costs (excluding taxes
and interest during construction) of Y740 million (US$85 million equivalent) on standard IBRD
terms. Assurances were provided at negotiations that (a) the Government would onlend the
proceeds of the IBRD loan to Beihai, Fangcheng and Nanning municipalities on terms
satisfactory to the Bank Group, and (b) the municipalities would onlend the proceeds to the
project enterprises on terms at least equivalent to the current comparable terms available from
the Agricultural Bank of China. Local counterpart funds would be provided by the participating
enterprise (33 percent), and other sources including local government budget (12 percent). The
loan proceeds would be allocated approximately as follows:



- 121 -                                Annex 5
Table 2: Financing Plan
Borrower           Estimated Project Cost   Loan Amount
(US $ million)       (US $ million)
Guangxi Province           0.8                   0.6
Beihai Municipality       47.8                  26.3
Fangcheng Munic.           19.0                 10.4
Nanning Munic.             18.8                 10.2
Total                     86.4                  47.5
11.   Disbursements of the loan would cover:
a.    55 percent of total expenditures for civil works (including force account);
b.    100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, goods,
materials and breeding stock or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
locally manufactured equipment, goods, materials and breeding stock, and 75
percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and
C.    100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and staff training.
12.   Disbursement would be made against priced contracts for the works, materials and
equipment, and against actual costs of travel and subsistence, tuition and training fees for staff
training in China or abroad (Annex 5, para 65 for procurement details). Reimbursements for
expenditures for goods and civil works not exceeding US$200,000 and US$2,000,000
respectively, would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE) subject to the terms
established for SWPRP (SAR para 3.51). To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would
be opened for the purposes of GX-MEDS with an initial deposit of US$3 million, the estimated
average expenditure for a four-month period.
13.   Accounts and Audits. Records of all project expenditures would be maintained by the
project management office (PMO) in participating units and forwarded to the Provincial PMO
for incorporation into consolidated project accounts, which would be audited annually by the
State Audit Administration (SAR para 3.56). The audited accounts would also include details
of withdrawals from the Special Account made on the basis of SOEs, and the auditors opinion
as to whether such withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for reimbursement by the
Bank.



- 122 -                                                 Annex 5
14.     Five sectoral initiatives would be supported under GX-MEDS.  Following are detailed
descriptions of each initiative covering the objectives, content, estimated costs, and financing
and implementation arrangements as well as expected benefits and environmental impact.
Poverty Reduction Enterprise Zone (Beihai)
15.     Objectives. The objectives of the Beihai poverty reduction enterprise zone (BPREZ) are
to create stable employment for migrant workers from the target poverty group, and to provide
incentives to small and medium sized, labor intensive enterprises to locate their permanent
operations in Beihai. The 10 ha zone would provide a variety of rental and purchase options
in the form of serviced land or factory building space together with worker dormitory space to
small and  medium   sized  enterprises  wishing  to  locate  operations  in  Beihai.   Enterprises
specializing in non-polluting, light industrial manufacturing using labor intensive processes would
be targeted.
16.     A total of some 40 firms employing about 8,000 permanent workers in total are expected
to locate in BPREZ. Ten firms ranging from garment manufacturing to food processing and
component manufacturing had expressed potential interest at time of appraisal. Beihai has
become in recent times the destination of a number of investors anticipating opportunities in the
economic growth stemming from the development of the Southwest China Region. It has the
second largest seaport facilities in Guangxi (after Fangcheng) with some 2 million tons of annual
general cargo capacity. Fixed asset investment in Beihai in 1993/94 was Y1.36 billion, and
construction and enterprises employed an estimated 530,000 migrant laborers in 1993 (in contrast
to the registered municipal population of 1.3 million).
17.     Subproiect Description.  A  marketing study is underway that will help attract suitable
firms and optimize BPREZ investment plans. The marketing strategy would generally follow
the experience of the Qingyuan (Guangdong) Experimental Economic Zone/2. The physical
assets of the Zone Authority would be established on a 10.6 ha serviced area contiguous with
other land in a 6 km2 area zoned for light industry and mixed use purposes located in the Gaode
District about five kilometers from the municipal CBD. Power, telecommunications and water
supplies, and drainage, sewerage and garbage services are already available off site. Based on
/2     The "Qingyuan Experimental Economic Zone for Supporting the Poverty Stricken Areas' is a development by Qingyuan
Municipality located about 58 km north of Guangzhou, adjoining the N107 National Road. A first phase 9.6 km' area has been developed
by the municipality since 1992 in cooperation with poor counties in upland Guangdong and elsewhere. Land in the fully serviced zone is
leased to light industrial and service sector enterprises. The zone provides cheap land (currently Y230 per m2) and access to low cost,
productive labor. At full scale (18.6 km') about 2000 enterprises are anticipated in total which would provide about 200,000 jobs for a total
investment esimated at Y15 bilion (i.e. Y75,000 per job). The zone allows poorer coundes access to well located industrial sites which
can be developed with foreign and local joint venture partners. Profits and taxes generted by such enterprises are allocated to the poor
counties concerned according to their equity holdings. In addidon the labor used by the enterprises by agreement must be drawn from the
labor pools of the poor counties. Currently some 100 enterprises have been established or have begun development to date. The established
enterprises reportedly employ about 6,000 workers of which one half are migrants although many are from outside Guangdong Province.
Participating enterprises enjoy up to 10 years of graduated local (income) tax exemptions and enterprises hiring migrant labor enjoy a
discount on their land lease purchase.



- 123 -                                Annex 5
preliminary demand estimates, site development would include construction on about 5.6 ha of
up to 48,000 m2 of floor space in standard multi-story factory and warehouse buildings, together
with 21,000 m2 dormitory accommodation for workers and staff. About one half of the floor
space is expected to be rented by smaller firms, while the remainder is expected to be sold to
small-medium sized firms requiring customized space. Assurances were given at negotiations
that Beihai Municipality would undertake a program of site and building sales and leases for
BPREZ satisfactory to the Bank.
18.   Estimated Costs and Financing. The BPREZ project is estimated to cost about Y1 16
million (US$ 13.2 million equivalent), including land, and physical and price contingencies.
Base costs are estimated in Dec. 1994 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at ten
percent of the base cost. Price contingencies have been calculated for both foreign and local
costs using Bank estimated escalation factors (Annex 5, para 9). The Bank Group would finance
55 percent of the estimated total subproject costs.
19.  Implementation Arrangements. The project would be implemented and operated by the
BPREZ Management Committee, an autonomous enterprise owned jointly by national, provincial
and municipal government-owned entities (Annex 5, para 62). The BPREZ Management
Committee would include five departments responsible for engineering, leasing, property
management, administration, finance and accounting, and labor management. Supplies and
services for construction of the BPREZ assets and facilities would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. Assurances were given at
negotiations that disbursements against expenditures for buildings that would be rented or sold
under the BPREZ project would be on condition that acceptable pre-lease or pre-sale
agreements, as appropriate, have been concluded with respect to at least 50 percent of thefloor
space of the building concerned.
20.   EmDloyment. Enterprises in BPREZ would be required to employ workers from poverty
stricken regions and Guangxi target poverty counties in particular. The migrant workers would
chiefly fill laboring and semiskilled positions. Management, technical and skilled workers would
be recruited freely by the enterprises. The ratio of acceptance of migrant workers to the
workforce will directly affect the preferential treatment enjoyed by the enterprises. About 70
percent of the anticipated 8,000 person workforce employed in BPREZ is expected to be
migrants from poor areas. Workers would be organized and provided through the local Labor
Bureau intermediation system supported by SWPRP (See Annex 4 for labor mobility system).
Accommodation would be available for migrant workers in dormitories on site owned or leased
by the enterprises. Dormitory standards would be equivalent to the low income housing
standards established under the Guangxi subcomponent (Annex 5, para 26).



- 124 -                                  Annex 5
21.   Establishment of new jobs would be the chief monitoring indicator for BPREZ in
accordance with the following agreed targets:
New jobs    Cumulative
created      new jobs
Year         per year     (% of total)
1996          200                 2.5
1997          800                12.5
1998        2,000                37.5
1999         1,600               57.5
2000         2,400               87.5
2001         1,000              100.0
Total       8L000               100.0
22.   Environmental Impact. Beihai Municipality is fully conscious of the vulnerability of the
municipal area to environmental pollution and has completed a comprehensive environmental
impact assessment of the various proposed subprojects. The Beihai coastal area (comprising
some 128,000 kmi) is now relatively unpolluted and particularly rich in marine resources
(including unique shellfish species and pearl culture). Beihai is also a popular beach resort and
conference center. Air quality is very good and extensive groundwater resources are available.
Although one of China's 14 designated "open coastal cities", industrial output forms a minor
share of Beihai's GDP which is largely based on agriculture and fisheries, and in recent years,
residential real estate development. A small concentration of heavy industry is located close to
the port area about 20 km from the city proper, and oil and gas development is occurring about
20 nautical miles offshore. A light industry zone has been established in Gaode District (site
of BPREZ) on vacant, marginal agricultural land. No resettlement of existing tenants is required
for BPREZ. Other concentrations of light industry are developing in various townships of the
municipality's rural hinterland. In the recently developed urban area a separate sewerage
network has been installed and a treatment facility is planned for implementation and operation
prior to 2000. New enterprises must file an environmental impact assessment and undertake
mitigating measures as part of the investment in order to comply with stipulated discharge
standards.
23.   Enterprises locating in BPREZ are intended mainly to be non-polluting light industries
and would be required to conform to established discharge standards. Waste discharges from
BPREZ would be passed following on-site primary treatment to the municipal collection systems
for disposal. Waste water (containing chiefly organic wastes) is currently discharged through
an outlet to the sea, and solid waste is stored at the municipal dump.



- 125 -                                  Annex 5
Low-income Housing (Fangcheng and Nanning)
24.   Objectives. The objective of the low income housing component is to provide affordable
accommodation to single migrant workers without public subsidy. Urban housing is generally
in short supply in the Guangxi project cities which were granted open economic status only in
1992. The past generally low level of economic activity in Guangxi is reflected in the low level
of infrastructure and housing in its cities/3. Current housing was developed under past economic
plans by the city enterprises coordinated by the municipal housing bureau. Housing demands
outside the plan stemming from migrant workers could not be met and the project cities are
marked by extensive informal squatter settlements consisting of makeshift housing and unpaved
access. Older settlements have access to municipal services but newer settlements have none.
25.   Subproject Description. The past restrictions on migrant labor movement have been
lifted and cities are free to determine their own strategies to accommodate migrants. The
Guangxi municipal govermnents recognize the importance of migrant labor inputs to their city's
growing economic activity and competitiveness, and have adopted an open policy. The three
project cities anticipate the arrival of some 350,000 migrants over the next five years, mostly
seeking employment speculatively. Among these arrivals would be about 50,000 migrants
sponsored by the project under the Labor Bureau's administration. Some arrivals would be
accommodated in enterprise dormitories; the remainder would seek accommodation from the
market. In view of the constrained market and in order not to worsen housing conditions due
to demands by the sponsored migrants, low income housing settlement enterprises would be
established by both Nanning and Fangcheng Municipalities/4.
26.   The Nanning project would provide accommodation on a vacant 4.3 ha site in the Beihu
District for 29,000 migrant workers (male and female), and the Fangcheng project would
provide for 17,500 on 3.3 ha of vacant reclaimed land close to downtown. The sites are close
to arterial roads and public transport services. The settlements, intended to serve single migrants
without families, would be based on typical dormitory style accommodation with shared rooms,
toilet and kitchen facilities arranged in seven or eight story, fully serviced and furnished blocks.
Agreed site and building planning standards are shown in Table 3 below. The dormitory spaces
would be rented to migrants with preference given to workers from the target poverty groups.
In anticipation of the migrant population profile changing from single to family status, half of
the blocks would be convertible to apartment style accommodation in due course. Dormitory
standards would be maintained for at least ten years. Assurances were given at negotiations that
the low-income housing provided under the project would be: (a) planned and constructed
/3   In 1992 Nanning was recorded as providing 5.7 m2 residential living space per person - the second lowest (after Chongqing) among
all provincial capital cities.
Housing availability is not a major issue in Beihai due to a real estate development boom in recent years.



- 126 -                                          Annex 5
according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and (b) exclusively rented for a period not less
than 10 years following completion to migrant workers from poor areas, of which not less than
70 percent would be workers from the project counties in Guangxi.
Table 3: Guangxi MEDS, Low-income Housing Planning Criteria
Criterion                             Fangcheng           Nanning
Occupancy: Total migrant workers (No.)                         17,500            29,000
Allocated to SWPRP target group:
(No.)                                                       12,250            20,300
(% of total workers)                                           70                 70
Period of dedicated use (years)                                  10                10
Space Use: Low-income residential:
Useable floor area (m2/resident)                                2                  2
Gross floor area (m2/resident)                                  4                  4
Maximum occupants per room (No.)                                8                  8
Maximum residents per WC (No.)                                  16                16
Maximum res. per kitchen (No.)                                 32                 32
Allowable ancillary use:
Estate management offices (No.)                                 1                  1
Post office, bank (No.)                                         2                  2
Small-scale retail (by residents)                      per demand         per demand
Garbage stations (No.)                                          2                  3
Public toilets (No.)                                            2                  3
Site: Floor area/site area ratio                                 3.0                2.5
Open space/built space ratio                                   0.31              0.25
Road space/open space ratio                                     0.5               0.7
Services available:
Access                                            paved paths & 6m     Paved paths &
service roads   6m service roads
Water supply (L/cap/day)                                      100                100
Electrical power (Kwh/cap)                                   0.04               0.04
Sewerage (L/cap/day)                                           90                 90
Solid waste collection                              Munic. service    Munic. service
Fire protection                                    Dry hydrant,low    Dry hydrant,low
pressure          pressure
Rent:
8-factor' rent level (1995):
Average (Y/cap/month)                                          60                 42
20th percentile group (Y/cap/mo.)                              40                 25
/a           8-factor rent includes: cost recovery for annual depreciation, repairs, management, interest, estate and land
use taxes, and insurance; and profit.



- 127 -                                Annex 5
27.       Estimated Costs and Financing. The Nanning low income housing sub-project is
estimated to cost about Y82 million (US$ 9.4 million equivalent), including land, and physical
and price contingencies (see Annex 9 for cost details). The Fangcheng project is estimated to
cost about Y53 million (US$6 million equivalent). Base costs are estimated in December 1994
prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at ten percent of the base cost. Price contingencies
have been calculated for both foreign and local costs using Bank estimated escalation factors
(Annex 5, para 9). The Bank Group would finance 55 percent of the estimated total subproject
costs.
28.       Implementation Arrangements. In Nanning the project would be implemented by
the Low Income Housing Development Administration Co. (LIHDAC), an autonomous
enterprise owned jointly by provincial and municipal government-owned entities (Annex 5, para
60). The LIHDAC would include four departments responsible for engineering, administration,
finance and accounting. On completion of construction, the assets would be managed by another
autonomous enterprise, the Enterprise Management Co., an experienced municipal property
management company.  This company would include departments for leasing/rentals,
building/site maintenance, and accounting.
29.       In Fangcheng, the project would be operated by the Fangcheng Housing
Management Co. (FHMC), an autonomous enterprise owned jointly by provincial and municipal
government-owned entities (Annex 5, para 60). The FHMC would include five departments
responsible for engineering, administration, leasing and renting, building and site maintenance,
finance and accounting.
30.       Supplies and services for construction of the housing assets and facilities would be
procured through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group.
31.       Benefits. Rents would be set at affordable levels (approximately 10 percent of
disposable income) for different standards of accommodation, intended to achieve on average
full cost recovery based on the so-called "eight factors" (including annual depreciation, repairs,
management, interest, estate and land use taxes, insurance, and a modest profit). Income
surpluses are expected to be sufficient to cover 40 percent of the investment cost of a similar
future development. Residents would be directly responsible for utility consumption charges and
service fees.
32.       Rental of living spaces would be the chief monitoring indicator for the low income
housing subprojects in accordance with the following agreed targets:



- 128 -                                Annex 5
Nanning                   Fangcheng
New spaces   Cumulative  New spaces      Cumulative
rented    spaces rented   rented      spaces rented
Year         Mer year   (% of total)   per year      (% of total)
1996         2,900         10          3,500             20
1997         5,800         30          5,250             50
1998         8,700         60          5,250             80
1999         5,800         80          1,750             90
2000         4,350         95          1,750            100
2001          1,450        100
Total        29,000        100         17.500           100
33.   Environmental Impact. The low income housing settlements would be established on
vacant land and do not require any resettlement of existing tenants. The settlements would
indirectly support development of light industry in Nanning and to a small extent in Fangcheng
(most new jobs in Fangcheng would be associated with stevedoring services at the port), and
would avoid increasing the extent of insanitary informal squatter settlements. Both sites have
direct access to a full range of off-site services including municipal waste management services.
Municipal wastewater is currently discharged following primary treatment to the sea in the case
of Fangcheng, and to natural waterways and eventually the Xijiang River (a major navigable
waterway) in the case of Nanning. In each city garbage is collected by the municipality and
disposed of by open dumping at various municipal dumps. While these simple disposal
arrangements have not caused serious environmental problems to date, both cities have longer
term plans to improve disposal of municipal wastes (especially Fangcheng which adjoins a near-
pristine coastal zone, rich in marine life). Industries are required to conform to discharge
standards set and monitored by the respective municipal environmental protection bureaus.
Aguaculture (Beihai and Fangchen2)
34.   Objectives. The objectives of the proposed aquaculture enterprises in Beihai and
Fangcheng are to create stable employment for migrant workers from the target poverty group,
and to develop and expand the existing local aquaculture industry. The northern seaboard of
Beibu Gulf (Gulf of Tonkin) with its protected coastal wetlands and mangroves is rich in marine
resources. Its extensive, shallow tidal flats and estuaries (244 ki2), low tidal range (2.2 m
average), unpolluted water quality and moderate climate (23 ave.) are ideally suited to marine
microorganism and large organism production including various economic species of fish,
prawn, crab and cephalopod. Along with the general improvements in living standards in China
demand for sea food is rising in the face of a limited supply, exacerbated in part by the failure
of the northern shrimp production industry due to disease. Good rail and air transport links



- 129 -                                        Annex 5
allow Guangxi's fisheries to serve distant and foreign markets with live and frozen produce.
Cold storage and ice making facilities are in place in both municipalities. Beihai aquaculture
subprojects will create 4,267 permanent and 385 temporary jobs. Fangcheng aquaculture
subprojects will employ 1,800 full-time workers and provide 495 temporary jobs.
35.    Fisheries and mariculture production totalling over 300,000 tons in 1993 contributed
about 50 percent of gross agricultural output value in Beihai and 25 percent in Fangcheng.
Annual inshore and deep sea capture fisheries production in 1993, although declining, totalled
about 240,000 tons in Beihai and 30,000 tons in Fangcheng. In contrast to capture fishing,
mariculture has expanded in Fangcheng and Beihai from less than 600 ha in 1985 to 11,000 ha
in 1993 with a combined production of about 36,000 tons/5. The area is also particularly suited
to pearl culture, producing a total of 4,434 kg in 1993 (about 5-10 percent of current total World
production). Mariculture currently occupies less than ten percent of the available tidal flat area.
36.    Subproject Description.   The ten aquaculture subprojects that would be supported by
the project include:
(a) in Beihai, (i) about 135 ha of freshwater (macrobrachium) shrimp production ponds
in Dangjiang Township; (ii) about 71 ha of marine pearl culture beds at Zhongtang and
Yingpan farms; (iii) about 600 ha of oyster production fields in Xichang Township; (iv)
about 1,332 ha of hard clam culture beds in Dangjiang and Shagang Townships; (v)
about 175 ha of marine (penaeid) shrimp ponds in Xichang; and (vi) breeding centers for
aquaculture and fish fry in an extension to the existing Xiantian Township hatchery and
in a new branch hatchery at Guangtouling; and
(b) in Fangcheng, (i) about 150 ha of scallop fields in Jiangshan township; (ii) about 720
netcages for fish culture at Guangpo Township; (iii) about 100 ha of shrimp/fish rotation
culture ponds at Gongce Township; and (iv) about 36 ha of marine pearl culture beds at
Jiangshan Township.
37.    Although mariculture is well established in the region, the proposed expansion and
diversification of aquaculture activities present some technical challenges and risks to the
enterprises which, however, are expected to diminish with experience. Freshwater shrimp
cultivation, for example, has been experimental in Guangxi to date and full scale operation
requires close supervision and continuous cropping  of market-sized  shrimps due to the
cannibalistic nature of this species. About 400 tons per year are expected at full production.
/5    The chief products include: Shellfish (Dosinia Sp., Telilinides Sp., Meretrix meretrx, Scarphaca subcrenata, Tegillarca granosa,
Ostreidac Sp., Pinctada mantens); Prawns and crabs (Penacus Penicliatus, P. merguiensis, P. monodon, P. japonicus, Metapenacus afJinis, P.
chinensis, Scylla sarrate, Portunus trituberculatus & Portunus pelagicus); Marine fishes (Latrolabrax japonicus, Pagrosomus major, Sparus
macrocephalus, Lates houtuyn, L. calcarifer, Bosrichrhys sinensis, Mugil se-iug Basilewsky & Periophihalmus cantonensis)



- 130 -                                Annex 5
The shrimp ponds would be constructed by converting former low value rice paddies. Pearl
cultivation using Chinese techniques has been a traditional industry in Guangxi for many
decades, interrupted only by the Cultural Revolution. The proposed subproject would nearly
double existing production to 6-7 tons per year at full output (after five years development)
thereby helping fill a serious gap in World production since the recent decline of the dominant
Japanese industry (due in part to pollution). Marine shrimp production has been established for
about 15 years in Guangxi but is at high risk of diseases that have stricken northern China and
Taiwan. Ponds would be constructed in the intertidal zone protected by an existing sea dike.
Alternate cropping of different species in rotation (in Beihai ponds) and shrimp/fish rotation (in
Fangcheng ponds) would be practiced, as well as regulated feeding and pond maintenance
(including mud sterilization), in the hope of avoiding persistent pathogenic organisms. High
intensity production techniques are expected to yield 3,000 kg/ha from two crops per year (about
twice current production levels). Netcage fish culture raises commercial species in confined
cages positioned in a large body of water. While economically attractive netcage culture poses
potential environmental problems that would be mitigated under the project (para 44). Expected
annual production from 720 cages is about 600 tons. Oyster, hard clam and scallop production
techniques are well established in the area and pose few risks other than the low potential of
pollution impacts from external sources. Expected annual productions levels would be about
22,000 tons of oysters, 16,000 tons of clams and 5,800 tons of scallops (including shells).
W,hile exposure to devastating typhoons is a further risk for all subprojects, in practice strong
winds exceeding Force 8 are experienced only between 3-5 days each year and losses to existing
industry are insignificant to date.
38.   Estimated Costs and Financing. The Beihai aquaculture subproject is estimated to cost
about Y218 million (US$25.1 million equivalent), including land, and physical and price
contingencies (see Annex 9 for details). The Fangcheng subproject is estimated to cost about
Y108 million (US$12.4 million equivalent). Base costs are estimated in December 1994 prices.
Physical contingencies are calculated at five percent of the base cost. Price contingencies have
been calculated for both foreign and local costs using Bank estimated escalation factors (Annex
5, para 9). The Bank Group would finance 55 percent of the estimated total project costs.
39.  Implementation Arrangements. In Beihai the project would be implemented and operated
by the Beihai Ocean Fishery Development Holding Co. (BOFDHC), an autonomous enterprise
owned jointly by national, provincial and municipal government-owned entities (Annex 5, para
60). The BOFDHC would include eight departments (responsible for planning, marketing,
processing, storage and transportation, hatcheries, technical services, training, and finance and
accounting), which would supervise five specialized operating companies and their related farms
established under the project, as well as the hatchery and its branches.
40.  In Fangcheng the project would be implemented and operated by the Fangcheng Ocean
Development Holding Co. (FODHC), an autonomous enterprise owned jointly by national,
provincial and municipal government-owned entities (Annex 5, para 60), including the municipal
I



- 131 -                                 Annex 5
Fisheries Bureau. The FODHC would include seven departments (responsible for planning,
marketing, processing, hatcheries, technical services, training, and finance and accounting),
which would supervise four specialized operating companies and their related farms established
under the project.
41.   Supplies and services for construction of the aquaculture assets and facilities generally
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Minor works, land preparation and cultivation would be carried out by force account.
42.   Employment. At peak production the aquaculture enterprises would expect to employ
about 7,000 permanent workers and about 500 seasonal workers (as detailed in Table 4 above).
The majority of workers would be migrants from Guangxi's poor areas and the targeted project
counties. Migrant workers would be provided on appropriate terms through the local Labor
Bureau inter-mediation system supported by SWPRP (See Annex 4). Workers would be housed
by the aquaculture enterprises in low-rise dormitories at standards similar to those agreed for
the Guangxi low income housing subcomponent (Annex 5, para 26).
43.   Cultivation of the various fields and beds, often located several kilometers offshore in
2-10 m water depth, is carried out by workers, mainly from boats. Some workers man watch
platforms located adjacent to the fields. Platforms are about 500 m apart and occupied
continuously by individual workers on two week rotational shifts. Platforms are roughly
constructed but include shelters with, in some cases, wind powered electricity generators. They
are serviced daily but rough weather can occur at any time. Safety of offshore operations would
be improved through the provision of training as well as life vests for all workers and, for
platform attendants, short range radio equipment. In addition the project would include new
boats and SCUBA diving equipment, and training in their use.
44.   Environmental Impact. With the exception of the freshwater shrimp ponds (135 ha)
which would be converted from paddy, no dry land requisition is required for the aquaculture
component, and no involuntary resettlement is required. Water quality in the areas concerned
has been certified by the local environmental protection bureau as conforming to national
standards for seawater for aquaculture usage. About half of the subproject would support
bivalve culture which requires no artificial feed stuff and can be considered true food production.
In contrast the culture of shrimps and fish in ponds or cages requires high levels of fishmeal or
trashfish input (dependent on the capture fisheries industries) and leads to a net consumption of
food. Accumulation of fecal waste from netcage fish culture can lead to anaerobic conditions
in the vicinity of a net cage, leading to local deterioration of the benthos and affecting fish
production. Adequate spacing and routine relocation would be carried out to avoid serious
impacts. In addition, netcage culture currently requires wild fingerlings as stock for many
economic species. Without adequate care, fingerling capture fisheries can be seriously damaged.
Development of hatchery technology for the species concerned would be supported by the project
and is expected to eliminate this risk in due course.



- 132 -                                      Annex 5
Silviculture (Nannina)
45.   Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed silviculture (tree crops and forestry)
enterprises in Beihai and Fangcheng are to create stable employment for migrant workers from
the target poverty group, and to develop and expand the existing local tree crops and forestry
industries. Guangxi is an important longan fruit production region accounting for 25 percent of
China's planted longan area and output. Longan tree plantations in Guangxi are expected to
increase from 44,000 ha with 52,000 tons output in 1993 to 100,000 ha in 2000 with between
130,000 to 180,000 tons output. Since 1985, about 3,700 ha was planted in Nanning (based on
a high yield variety developed by the Guangxi Horticultural Institute), and produced 5,500 tons
of longan fruit in 1994. Fruit production falls under the Guangxi Agriculture Bureau while
forest products fall under the Forestry Bureau. Papermaking in the region is increasing its
demand for wood pulp as the industry converts from small scale, heavily polluting processes
based on grass fiber feedstocks to large scale and less polluting, wood fiber-based processes.
A new 100,000 tons per year capacity pulp mill now under construction in Nanning will require
a 500,000 m3 annual timber supply in 1998, of which about half can be supplied from suitable
local forests of eucalyptus and spruce in southern Guangxi. Output from the pulp mill is
expected to be taken up in large part by large proposed paper and fiber board mills planned in
the nearby Beihai area. Nanning's municipal area contains extensive undeveloped hilly tracts
suitable for tree plantations. Softwood plantations in this region were successfully supported by
Credit 2145-CHA, National Afforestation Project.
46.   Subproject Description.  The project would support the development in Nanning
Municipality of: (a) about 1,340 ha of longan fruit tree plantations and related facilities in
various locations in Liangqin, Nama, Datong, and Naxiao townships and the Taian state-owned
forest farm; and (b) about 8,000 ha of fast growing eucalyptus tree plantations in 15 townships/6
in Yongning and Wuming Counties, and Nanning city suburbs. Development of the subprojects
would include land improvement, saplings, cultivation inputs, small buildings, equipment and
vehicles.
47.    Estimated Costs and Financing. The Nanning silviculture project is estimated to cost
about Y80 million ($9.2 million equivalent), of which (a) the tree crops subproject is
estimated to cost about Y46 million (US$5.3 million equivalent), including land, and physical
and price contingencies, and (b) the forestry subproject is estimated to cost about Y35
million (US$4 million equivalent). Base costs are estimated in December 1994 prices.
Physical contingencies are calculated at five percent of the base cost. Price contingencies
have been calculated for both foreign and local costs using Bank estimated escalation factors
/6   Including Shuxu (360 ha). Dating (240 ha), Nanxiao (150 ha), and Chengtang (250 ha) in Yongning County; Chengxiang (640 ha),
Fucheng (340 ha). Taiping (470 ha), Xianhu (420 ha), Luoxu (120 ha), Ningwu (50 ha), Luhan (300 ha), Liangjiang (60 ha) and Linnia (100
ha) in Wuming County; and Tangluo (2600 ha) and Zhuangding (1,900 ha) in the Nanning suburbs.



- 133 -                               Annex 5
(Annex 5, para 9). The Bank Group would finance 55 percent of the estimated total project
costs.
48.   Implementation Arrangements. Details of the implementation arrangements and
organization of the GX-MEDS subcomponent are described below (Annex 5 para 60). The
tree crops subproject would be implemented by the Nanning Longan Project Office (NLPO)
under the Fruit Office of the municipal Agriculture Bureau, jointly with participating villages
and farmers. NLPO would be responsible for repayment of the loan. The NLPO would
include five departments (responsible for planning and design, purchasing, extension services
and training, and finance and accounting), which would supervise the implementation of
plantations established under the project. Cultivation and operation would be the
responsibility of the plantations owners. Plantations in village areas totalling about 402 ha
would be jointly owned by the farmers concerned (25 percent shareholding) and NLPO. In
state farm areas plantations totalling about 500 ha would be jointly owned by the farm (25
percent) and NLPO. About 438 ha of plantations would be wholly owned by farmers.
Wholly owned plantations would receive loans in kind (seedlings and other inputs from
NLPO) and operate under NLPO supervision. They would also repay their loan obligations
in kind (longan fruit).
49.   The forestry subproject would be implemented by the Nanning Forestry Project
Office (NFPO) under the municipal Forestry Bureau, through its county and suburb level
offices jointly with participating village forest farms. Its structure, responsibilities and
operations would be similar to NLPO described above (Annex 5 para 47). Cultivation and
operation would be the responsibility of the villages. Villages would receive inputs in kind
(seedlings, fertilizer, pesticide, equipment, etc) which would be credited to their loan
account. Villages would repay their loan obligations following harvest.
50.    Supplies and services for construction of the tree crops and forestry assets and
facilities generally would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. Minor works, land preparation, planting and cultivation
would be carried out by force account.
51.   Employment. The tree crops and forestry subprojects are expected to generate about
1,900 permanent jobs and nearly 12,000 seasonal jobs (two to three months duration), of
which about 10,000 would be made available to the target poverty group in Guangxi through
the Labor Bureau intermediation system. Permanent workers would be housed by the farms
concerned in available rural housing stock and temporary workers would be accommodated
in camps.
52.   Environmental Imact. The plantations are expected to create a positive
environmental impact. Plantations would be established on previously uncultivated hillsides
and marginal lands, and would not require any land requisition or involuntary resettlement



- 134 -                                Annex 5
measures. Cutting of the high growth eucalyptus would be carried out on a six-year cycle
and the stumps allowed to sprout and regrow for future cutting.
Vegetable Production Base (Beihai)
53.    Objectives. The objectives of the proposed vegetable production enterprise in Beihai
are to create stable employment for migrant workers from the target poverty group, and to
develop and expand the existing local vegetable production industry. Booming urban growth
in Beihai has been accompanied by rapid population growth and increases in disposable
income and standards of living (see Attachment 1), which in turn have created a significant
demand for fresh vegetables. Urban expansion however has converted existing vegetable
growing lands to other uses and local production fell from 43,700 tons in 1992 to 10,500
tons in 1994. To some degree the balance is now obtained from nearby Hepu County but
supplies are limited and prices have doubled. In addition to domestic demand, Beihai's
proximity to international markets such as Hong Kong creates further opportunities. Foreign
investors catering to the international fresh fruit market have recently established a major
citrus plantation as a joint venture in Beihai. Suitable soils and ample groundwater supplies
in the areas selected, as well as reliable and cheap labor, and a temperate climate strengthen
the potential for successful cash crop production in Beihai.
54.    Subproject Description. The proposed vegetable production base would be
established in three locations (near Baojia and Chidong villages and the Dufeng region in
Beihai City's suburbs) on a total of about 333 ha, of which 300 ha would be for open air
cultivation and 33 ha would be under cover. Full production is expected to average about
33,750 tons per year. The development would include a 1,800 m3 cold store, a 2,300 m2
cleaning and packing workshop and a 6,000 m2 warehouse and garage, together with
dormitories and facilities for the permanent workforce of some 2,200. A small (1,500 m2)
livestock farm would be included in order to make use of production waste. The project
would include deep well development, irrigation channels, buildings, vehicles and equipment,
including power supplies.
55.    Estimated Costs and Financing. The Beihai vegetable production subproject is
estimated to cost about Y46 million (US$5.3 million equivalent), including land, and physical
and price contingencies (see Annex 9 for detailed costs). Base costs are estimated in
December 1994 prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at five percent of the base cost.
Price contingencies have been calculated for both foreign and local costs using Bank
estimated escalation factors (Annex 5 para 9). The Bank Group would finance 55 percent of
the estimated total project costs.
56.   Implementation Arrangements. The project would be implemented and operated by
the Beihai Vegetable Base Co. (BVBC), an autonomous enterprise owned jointly by national,
provincial and municipal government-owned entities (Annex 5 para 61). The BVBC would



- 135 -                                         Annex 5
include seven departments (responsible for planning, marketing, production, purchasing,
personnel, training, and finance and accounting), which would supervise and assist the
related farms established under the sub project. Participating local villages and farmers
would be shareholders in the vegetable operations on their land. BVBC would be supported
by technical services provided by various Guangxi-based agricultural consulting
organizations.
57.     Supplies and services for construction of the vegetable production assets and facilities
generally would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank Group. Minor works, land preparation, planting and cultivation would be carried out
by force account.
58.     Employment. The vegetable production enterprise is expected to require about 2,200
permanent workers and staff, and about 3,300 seasonal workers. About 70 percent of the
workers would be recruited from the target poverty group in Guangxi through the Labor
Bureau intermediation mechanism. Permanent workers would be housed in dormitories
provided by the BVBC. Dormitory standards would be equivalent to those agreed for the
low income housing subproject (Annex 5 para 26). Temporary workers would be
accommodated in camps.
59.     Environmental Impact. No land requisition is required for the vegetable base which
would be established under joint agreement with specific villages and tenant farmers. No
involuntary resettlement is required. A net positive environmental impact is expected as a
result of more scientific land management and recycling of production wastes.
Technical Assistance and Training
60.     The Guangxi PMO would maintain and manage a small technical assistance and
training fund (US$650,000 equivalent) for onlending to GX-MEDS project enterprises for
appropriate, project related technical assistance and training requirements/7. Applications to
the Provincial PMO for funding would follow a standard format specifying, inter alia:
objectives, outputs, inputs, management arrangements and timetables, and estimated costs.
Participating enterprises would be required to contribute at least 10 percent of the costs from
their own resources.
/7    Typical technical assistance needs could include research into breeding of fry from selected commercial fish species now obtainable
only in the wild - currendy a capture process with potentially negative environnmental impects. Tmining could include class room and on the
job training by visiting specialists and selected domestic and international study tours. Of particular importance will be the trining of workers
to be involved in aquaculture operations over open water.



- 136 -                                Annex 5
Subcomponent Implementation Arrangements
61.    Project Management Implementation of the GX-MEDS subcomponent is the overall
responsibility of Guangxi Province's World Bank Project Management Office (a subsidiary of
the national project management office) and its subordinate project management offices in
Beihai, Fangcheng and Nanning Municipalities. Responsibility for day-to-day
implementation of individual subprojects would lie with various organizations, mainly
autonomous enterprises as described below, established for the purpose of development and
operation of the subproject facilities. The subproject organizations would be supervised by
their respective municipal project management offices during their formation phase and until
completion of the project on June 30, 2001. Thereafter each enterprise would be responsible
to an appointed board of directors.
62.    Project Enterprises. The various subprojects supported under GX-MEDS generally
would be developed and operated by autonomous corporate enterprises jointly owned by
national, provincial and municipal government entities. National interests are managed and
channelled through a holding company (Hua Da Economic Development Holding Co.) owned
by the State Council's National Poverty Alleviation Office. Similar subsidiary holding
arrangements apply at the provincial and municipal levels reflecting local interests,
overseeing wholly-owned operating companies at municipal and county levels. In rural
operating enterprise cases county and, in some cases, township and village governments, as
well as farmers, also have a significant interest. Exceptions to the foregoing occur in
Nanning where implementation of the tree crops and forestry subprojects would be carried
out by municipal agriculture and forestry bureaus.
63.   During the construction and business development phase a local enterprise would be
subject to the oversight of a leading group representing the owners' interests and the project
management office. During operation the owners of an enterprise would be represented
according to their shareholding in a supervisory board which approves the enterprise's
operational plans and monitors performance. The day to day operations of the enterprise,
including personnel management, are the responsibility of a general manager appointed by
the board. Enterprises would be registered with the respective local economic commission as
independent economic entities, they would maintain accounts and be responsible for their
own profits and losses.
64.    The enterprises would be the end users of the Bank loan proceeds and would be
responsible for repayment. About 30 percent of the various enterprises' physical assets
would be financed from equity capital and the balance, together with working capital, would
be fmanced from domestic loans and the proposed Bank loan (onlent by the local finance
bureau on terms equal to comparable ABC loan terms - Annex 5, para 10). The enterprises
are all expected to be labor intensive and would staff about 70 percent of their permanent



- 137 -                                Annex 5
(and temporary) workforces with workers from targeted poverty counties. In all cases the
enterprises would benefit from fixed term, local tax exemptions and other preferential
treatment as incentives to both establish in the area concerned and to employ the target
poverty group workers.
Procurement
65.   Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been agreed
with the subcomponent concerned agencies. Although relatively inexperienced in the Bank's
guidelines for procurement they would manage the process under the close supervision of the
Provincial PMO which has been staffed with experienced personnel. For procurement
purposes, the required works, materials and equipment would be broken down where
possible into annual packages suitable for local competitive bidding (LCB), and international
competitive bidding (ICB). All works and goods procurement would be packaged wherever
practicable in contracts large enough to attract competition. Works and materials supply
contracts estimated to cost more than Y17 million ($2.0 million equivalent) and equipment
contracts estimated to cost more than Y1.7 million ($200,000 equivalent) should be procured
through ICB. Prudent shopping procedures would be followed for small quantities of
standard equipment and furnishings totalling not more than Yl million in each municipality.
Direct purchases of seeds, seedlings and fish fry would not exceed Y1O million in each
municipality. Establishment and cultivation of plantations, and field and aquatic crops would
be carried out by force account. Bids for contracts would not be called until complete bid
documents including detailed designs and bills of quantity are available. Bid documents
would conform to: (a) the China Model Bidding Documents and, in cases of ICB, (b) the
Bank's standard bidding documents, where available. The Bank would review draft bid
documents for works and materials supply contracts estimated to cost more than Y20 million
and equipment supply contracts of Y2 million prior to bidding. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post award review. Adequate time should be allowed in implementation
schedules for procurement processing.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
66.   The national PMO would submit to the Bank on a quarterly basis consolidated
progress reports prepared by the local PMOs. The reports would document actual progress
against planned targets of physical and financial accomplishments and actual progress on
designated monitoring indicators (Annex 5, paras 21, 32). The reports would explain major
delays and the measures being taken to rectify matters.
Financial Analysis
67.   The financial analysis summarizes the key financial performance indicators of the
various enterprises established by the subcomponent. Similarly, the economic analysis



-138-                                  Annex 5
summarizes the key economic performance indicators for the various subprojects supported
by the loan. The analyses are based on individual enterprise and subproject projections
prepared by the municipal project preparation teams during 1994 and were reviewed and
updated by Bank staff in consultation with the project personnel during appraisal. This
analysis found that the subprojects offer an FIRR ranging from 12.8 percent (for housing in
Nanning and Fangcheng) to 33.5 percent for the Beihai Enterprise Zone.
Environmental Impact Summary
68.   Guangxi Province - for many years in the front line of China's adversarial relations
with neighboring Vietnam - is one of China's least developed and least intensively populated
provinces (186 persons/km2), and therefore also one of its least polluted, particularly in view
of the recently announced removal of the remaining land mines along the border. The
environmental challenge faced by Guangxi will be to conserve and protect its extensive
natural resources, especially its remarkable marine resources, in the face of forthcoming
rapid economic growth. It faces this challenge, however, relatively free from the typical
backlog of industrial pollution control faced by more developed provinces and cities.
Notwithstanding its poverty and low level of industrialization, Guangxi and the project
municipalities have established a body of legislation and environmental protection
organizations in government, agriculture and industry. These measures have created a strong
foundation for regulation and control of pollution and ecological degradation and the
enforcement of controls.
69.   Although the scale of activity supported by the subcomponent is relatively small and
widely dispersed the project sponsors have taken the opportunity to demonstrate sound
environmental planning principles in the preparation of the subprojects. The project would
support urban and rural development demonstrations in three of Guangxi's most important
municipal areas. It would strengthen municipal services (housing and light industrial estate
development) and support the development of agriculture, silviculture and aquaculture
enterprises.
70.   Involuntary Resettlement. Land and water area requirements of the subcomponent are
not expected to have a negative impact on existing users (in cases when the land and water
are already in use) and no involuntary resettlement would be required.
71.   Environmental Impact Assessment. According to local environmental analyses by
certified institutes, expected pollution impacts are relatively minor and subprojects would
include adequate mitigating measures, as described in Part B above. Industrial safety
conditions in the aquaculture subprojects are expected to improve as a result of the provision
of safety equipment and training.



- 139 -                                 Annex 5
Attachment 1
Labor Mobility Component
Guangxi Municipal Employment Development Subcomponent
Socio-Economic Background
A. Beihai Municipality
72.   Beihai is one of three prefecture-level coastal cities in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region, and one of fourteen coastal open cities designated in 1984. Its current population is
estimated at 1.738 million people of which 500,000 reportedly live in the main urban district;
40% of this urban population is temporary. Beihai Municipal Government (BMG) authorities
estimate that the total population will grow to 1.9 million by the year 2000 (600,000 urban),
and to 2.85 million by the year 2010 (1 million urban). The city has a bulk cargo port/8 and
is connected to Nanning by a two-lane, Class 2 highway. A rail connection to Qinzhou and
Nanning is under construction and is scheduled for completion in early 1995.
73.   The city is located in a region rich in agriculture and mariculture: the primary sector
accounted for 28.8% of GDP and 60% of registered employment in 1993. However, both its
share of GDP and employment has been declining steadily in recent years while the
secondary sector's role has increased from 27% of GDP in 1990 to 37% in 1993; it
accounted for 13.3% of registered employment in 1990 and 15.6% in 1993. Industry's share
of gross output has risen from 54% in 1990 to 65% in 1993. The tertiary sector, primarily
related to tourism, accounted for 34% of GDP in 1993 and 24.5% of registered
employment/9.
74.   Beihai is now recovering from the collapse of a three-year, speculative real estate
boom that ended in 1993. Although GDP has almost tripled in real terms since 1990, much
of this growth emanated from real estate development. One positive outcome of this boom
has been the construction of extensive municipal infrastructure that has positioned Beihai to
capitalize on its location as a major terminus of Southwest China's existing and planned rail
and road network. BMG has recently shifted its development policy to encourage industrial
development, particularly in labor-intensive light industry.
/8   The port has a freight handling capacity of 2.34 million tons; it handled 1.22 million tons in 1993. There are ambitious plans to develop
deep water port facilities in Tieshan District.
/9   The city was designated a 'nationally important tourist city' in 1988; its 21 km.-long Silver Beach was declared a 'national tourism
vacation zone" in 1992.



- 140 -                             Annex 5
Attachment 1
75.   The gross value of light industry output in Beihai has grown at an average 35.7% per
year in real terms since 1990. Much of this growth can be attributed to TVEs whose gross
output has grown by 596% in real terms during this period. The city's light industry
structure is oriented towards agriculture and mariculture: food and beverage processing
accounted for 67% of light industry output in 1993, up from 55% in 1990. The remaining
output is produced in a variety of much smaller sectors, including textiles (4.7%), paper
production (3.1%), and ceramics (1.4%).
76.   Although the number of temporary workers has declined this year to 200,000 due to
construction cutbacks, Beihai remains an important regional magnet for labor from poor
areas. Given Beihai's comparative advantages of location, good infrastructure, underutilized
port capacity, and the comparatively well-developed supporting tertiary sector, the city
appears to have a real potential for developing into a light industrial center in coastal
southwestern China. The realization of this potential will depend to a large extent on the
quality of marketing strategy that BMG prepares for its economic realignment (technical
assistance in this regard is being undertaken for this subproject).
B. Fangcheng Municipality
77.    The State Council officially declared Fangcheng a municipality in May, 1993. The
principal coastal port in Guangxi, Fangcheng has a territory of 5,300 km2 encompassing the
main city, one rural county, and two mostly rural districts, including the Dongxing Economic
Development Zone which borders with Vietnam. Fangcheng's population in 1994 is estimated
at 715,000 inhabitants of which 120,000 live in the urban area; 25% of this urban population
are temporary residents of which 80% are from poor rural areas. An estimated 62% of the
temporary population is registered with local authorities. Fangcheng Municipal Government
(FMG) officials estimate that, for the foreseeable future, the temporary population will grow at
15,000 per year. By the year 2000, the urban population of Fangcheng is expected to reach
400,000, of which 150,000 would be temporary residents (37.5%). One-third of the temporary
population is expected to be from poor rural areas.
78.   FMG is targeting the following employment opportunities for rural migrants up the year
2000: 10,000 labor jobs in ports and warehouses; 5,000 jobs in the construction sector; 15,000
in industry; 5,000 in infrastructure operations; and 15,000 in the tertiary sector. In the next
fifteen years, FMG expects that the temporary population will increase to 300,000 people, 60%
of the projected total population of 500,000 inhabitants; half of these are expected to come from
poor rural areas. At the present time, FMG estimates that 72.3 % of the temporary population
is employed in the tertiary sector (including port-related and construction activities).
79.   Fangcheng's port was established in the mid-1960s as a naval base. It became a "town"
in 1979, and its urban population began to increase from 4,000 to its current 120,000. The port



- 141 -                             Annex 5
Attachment 1
was expanded between 1978-81, but principally for defence reasons. From its original function
as a strategic naval base, Fangcheng has evolved into a key coastal commercial port in Guangxi
and the Southwest China Region: it is one of ten nationally-designated grain import ports, and
one of the four bulk cement ports in all of China. It currently handles almost 7 million tons of
bulk cargo a year; this capacity is expected to grow to 12 million tons by the year 2000. The
city's location at the end of a rail network that links the port with inner Guangxi, Guizhou and
Sichuan Provinces, and by the end of 1997 with Yunnan Province, makes it unique in southern
China. FMG is seeking to enhance its port functions through expansion of berths, development
of new port facilities to handle petroleum and natural gas, and strengthening of highway linkages
to Qinzhou and Nanning.
80.   Fangcheng enjoys many advantages that could strengthen its role as a major bulk cargo
port in Southwestern China. With the completion of the Kunming-Nanning railway line,
Fangcheng could become the key link between the region and outside markets. Bulk cargo
handling, and the basic processing activities associated with it, can be labor-intensive. As
Fangcheng's port functions increase in scope and size, the city will very likely continue to grow
in importance, attracting SWPRP clients seeking basic employment.
81.    Although its GVIO grew by 102% from 1990, Fangcheng's actual industrial base is
small: it was only 7.7% of Nanning's in 1993, and 30% of Nanning's on a per capita basis.
However, almost 55% of the city's GDP in 1993 came from the primary sector, mostly
agriculture, mining, and mariculture.
C. Nanning Municipality
82.   Nanning, the capital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, was designated an "open
city" only in June, 1992. Its current population is estimated at 2.64 million of which
approximately 1.1 million resides in the urban district (300,000 temporary). Nanning Municipal
Government authorities (NMG) estimate that the total population of Nanning will reach 3.2
million by the year 2000 (1.51 million urban), and 4.1 million by the year 2010 (2.5 million
urban). Aside from being Guangxi's principal city, Nanning is becoming an important rail
network hub/'°, and is also a significant inner harbor on the Yongjiang River, a western
tributary of the Pearl River (Nanning handles 30% more freight than Beihai).
83.    The city is an established inland distribution center that has largely developed through
domestic investment. Its economy is gradually shifting away from primary and secondary
/10  A Y 1.6 billion railway is under construction between Kunning and Nanning; when completed in 1997, it is expected to have an anual
freight capacity of 10 million tons.



- 142 -                            Annex 5
Attachment 1
activities to tertiary functions: from 1985 the percentage of the labor force employed in primary,
secondary, and tertiary sectors has shifted from 24:41:22 to 22:28:50.
84.    The city's GVIO has grown by over 32% in real terms since 1990, reflecting both a
modest increase in direct foreign investment and a pent up demand that was slow in being met
until the opening of the city in 1992. Nanning's industrial development has focused on food
processing, textiles and clothing, machinery, electronics, building materials, chemical
manufacturing, and medicinal products.   Almost 62% of GVIO in 1993 was from light
industry.
85.   Only two thirds of the temporary population appears to have registered with municipal
authorities: the 100,000 unregistered population is largely comprised of itinerant manual
workers, and occasional employees of COEs and private companies who are either unaware of
the need to formally register, or who seek to avoid paying annual labor management fees. NMG
estimates that almost 80% of its registered temporary population is employed in the urban area.
Of those employed, 44% are in the industrial sector, and 47% in the tertiary sector (including
37,000 in construction). NMG projects an annual increase of at least 30,000 temporary residents
per year until the year 2000.



- 143 -                             Annex 6
Rural Infrastructure Component
Introduction and Sector Background
1.    The poorest villages of Southwest China, scattered in the often barren or semi-barren,
resource-deficient karst and mountainous regions, are at once remote and isolated.  The
ecologically degraded environment and complete absence of rural infrastructure make living
conditions harsh and arduous. Inhabitants in these regions often have to cover long distances by
foot and labor through steep terrains to reach the nearest source of drinking water; even so the
water source may sometimes be contaminated or contain high level of fluorides. The nearest
dirt roads are reached only after some kilometers of steep climb and descent by jungle tracks;
considerable man-power and effort are thus expended by villagers in bringing what small amount
of forest of agricultural produce there is to the nearest farmers' market. Lack of access to basic
facilities such as water supply, road, electricity and telecommunication constitutes a severe
constrain to the improvement of the lot of the poorest communities in these remote villages.
2.    The provision of rural infrastructure to ameliorate living conditions in the poor regions
in China has been a preoccupation of its Government especially since the early 1980s. In the
period 1984-93, the Central Government allocated a total of RMB Y10 billion under the 'yi gong
dai zhen' or food for work program alone for the construction of roads, water supply facilities
and water conservancy works in these areas. Achievements have been significant: hitherto about
56 million of the rural poor have been served with simple systems of water supply and since the
late 1980s a further 1,500 townships have been linked to the network of rural roads, while over
a million hectares of land has been rehabilitated through soil and water conservation works and
served with irrigation facilities. However, there remain some 50 million inhabitants in the poor
regions who have no access to potable water, and some 1,700 townships and 17,000
administrative villages have yet to be served with rural roads. In rural electrification, about 13
percent of rural households have yet to be served with some rudimentary form of electricity
supply. The remaining non-served areas include the poorest regions and to extend infrastructure
coverage to these will be more challenging, both technically and financially in view of the
remoteness of these thinly populated villages located in difficult, mountainous terrains. In line
with its objective to eradicate absolute poverty at the end of this century, the Central
Government has planned to allocate annually some RMB Y4 billion under the food for work
program over the period 1994-2000 for the construction of rural infrastructure.



- 144 -                             Annex 6
Component Description
3.    The rural infrastructure component of the SWPRP forms an integral part of the multi-
sectoral developmental approach to attacking rural poverty and would be in active support of the
Government's on-going program to bring basic infrastructure facilities to the poorest regions of
the country.
4.    Targets. The specific targets for the rural infrastructure component would be to increase
the rural road coverage at village level to 90 percent; to provide potable water to about 25
percent of the population in the project area; to provide rural electricity to meet the requirements
of agro-processing, mining and other industries in the project area; and to construct irrigation
and soil conservation works for about 16,000 ha of paddy and upland crops.
5.    Rural Roads. To extend the coverage of rural road in the project area, a total of 1,608
km of gravel roads would be provided, linking a further 565 administrative villages to existing
network of county roads. Selection criteria would include: (a) roads which would serve a
number of villages with a sizable population, and (b) roads which would serve areas with a
concentration of project activities and where the generation of traffic volume is expected. The
roads would be constructed to Class IV road standards, with the following minimum technical
requirements:
Design speed                   20 km/hr
Width of formation             4.5 m
Width of carriageway           3.5 m
Radius of road                 15 m
Stopping sight distance        20 m
Maximum grade                  11 percent
Design Load for bridges/culverts  10 t
6.    Rural Water Supply. The rural water supply sub-component would serve an additional
667,000 people in 990 villages, or approximately 25 percent of the total population in the project
area. Selection criteria would include: (a) villages suffering from seasonal water shortage
exceeding 100 days in duration, (b) villages where the water source is more than 1.5 km away
or where the elevation difference between the water source and the place where the inhabitants
reside is more than 100 m; and (c) villages where existing water sources contain an unacceptable
level of fluorides and villages susceptible to epidemic and endemic diseases; an improvement in
the community supply will result in the betterment in public health.
7.    Water supply systems would be low-cost. Facilities would tap from springs or pump
from streams and underground rivers and would include piped systems with public hydrants and,
rain collectors serving individual households or several households. Water storage would be



- 145 -                             Annex 6
provided to sustain supply up to 100 days in the dry seasons. Systems would be designed to
supply 25 to 40 liters per capita per day and would meet current water quality standards for rural
water supply in China.
8.    Rural Energy.  A total of 197 km of 375 kV and 675 km of 10 kV overhead
transmission and distribution lines and two mini-hydro power plant would be installed to increase
power supply to the project area, primarily to meet the requirements of the agro-processing and
light industries financed under the project as well as the needs of mining and other industries in
the project area, and additionally to meet domestic requirements in villages located alongside the
power supply lines. About 83,000 households in 378 villages would be served by the project
rural electrification schemes. Electrical works would conform to national technical standard$
currently in force.
9.    In some karst areas of Guangxi Province where there is chronic shortage of fuelwood due
to land degradation and progressive depletion of vegetation and where forest is closed to further
exploitation, biogas digester is a practical means of providing an alternate source of energy and
improved stoves has been used to save fuelwood by 50 percent.  The rural energy sub-
component would include the installation of 2,380 units of biogas digesters and 2,840 units of
improved stoves.
10.   Water Conservancy Works.  A variety of small-scale water conservation works
including irrigation, flood mitigation/agricultural drainage, and soil and water conservancy would
be implemented in the project area, including the upgrading and completion of the Fengguo
Irrigation Scheme in Yunnan Province.
11.   Irrigation. Irrigation would be provided for 13,000 ha of existing and new paddy and
upland crops. The proposed works would include the enlargement of three existing dams
(Jiumin in Guangxi, Yuanwozai in Guizhou and Fengguo in Yunnan, all exceeding 10
m in height); rehabilitation and construction of 516 irrigation ponds; rehabilitation and
lining of existing canals and construction of lined canals totalling 648 km; installation of
2,580 on-farm water cisterns ranging up to 20 cubic meters in storage capacity; and
construction and rehabilitation of 12 pumping stations.  In addition, the Fengguo
Irrigation Scheme would, apart from the enlargement of the reservoir storage, include
the construction of some 3 km of tunnel serving as the main supply canal and the
completion of the canal system. The completion of the Fengguo Irrigation Scheme would
serve to demonstrate the realization of irrigation potential of reservoir schemes through
the provision of appropriate tertiary irrigation facilities.
12.   Flood Mitigation/Agricultural Drainage. Flood mitigation and agricultural drainage
would be provided through the construction of two small dams for flood detention/silt
retention and minor tunnelling works to provide drainage channels in the karst areas.



- 146 -                             Annex6
13.   Soil and Water Conservation. Conservation works would include the construction of
225 small valley check dams of rubble construction, 33 km of flood evacuation channels,
afforestation and establishment of vegetative cover and terracing over an area of 2,100
ha to arrest sheet and gully erosion.
Preparation and Review of Schemes
14.   Proposals for the rural infrastructure schemes have been compiled by the three provincial
project offices on the basis of submissions by county Water Conservancy and Electric Power
Bureaus (for water conservancy, rural water supply and rural electrification schemes) and county
Communication Bureaus (for rural road schemes). The great majority of the proposed schemes
proposed require further preparation and review prior to implementation. In order that each
scheme proposed for implementation under the project is technically feasible and economically
viable, and that engineering designs for these are prepared to a uniformly high standard,
provincial project offices would ensure that schemes prepared by county Water Conservancy and
Electric Power Bureaus and Communication Bureaus are reviewed and approved for
implementation by the technical bureaus concerned at prefecture level and, where applicable, at
provincial level. Project schemes would conform to the selection criteria and technical
standards. Rural road, rural electrification and water conservancy schemes should have a
minimum estimated economic rate of return of 10 percent, and unit investment cost for
individual rural water supply schemes should not exceed RMB Y300 per capita including
contingencies. A safety review would be required of any dams serving the project exceeding
10 meters in height or 2.5 million cubic meters. Such dams would subsequently be maintained
and inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practices, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Operation and Maintenance
15.   At appraisal provincial project offices have proposed arrangements for the operation and
maintenance of rural infrastructure schemes completed under the project to ensure that the
facilities remain in good serviceable conditions during the project implementation period and
thereafter.
16.   Rural roads constructed to Class IV road standards and certified as such by
Communication Bureaus would either be included in the county annual road maintenance
programs or be placed under the charge of township Communication Stations concerned. In the
latter case an annual routine maintenance subsidy would be granted by Communication Bureaus
with beneficiary villagers providing duty labor for periodical or major repair work.
17.   Village committees would be responsible for organizing operation and maintenance of
rural water supply systems with full village participation. Normal Upkeep and major repair of
the completed facilities, operation for daily water supply and water rationing in times of shortage



- 147 -                             Annex 6
would be discussed by beneficiary villagers prior to implementation. Management committees
would be formed and persons appointed to be responsible for looking after the facilities. Water
fee would be collected either in cash or in kind to cover full operation and maintenance costs.
Villagers would contribute duty labor for major repair work.
18.   Rural electrification schemes completed according to technical standards and
specifications would be turned over to county Electric Power Companies, which operate as
independent enterprises and would recover full costs including costs of operation and
maintenance, major repair and depreciation through tariff for electricity supply.
19.   Operation and maintenance of the water conservancy works completed under the project
would be arranged by county Water Conservancy Bureaus. Water fee would be progressively
increased to recover full operation and maintenance cost.



- 148 -                                              Annex 6
ANNEX 6 - TABLE 1: RURAL ROAD PROGRAM
(The Below Figures Represent Base Costs)
County        Quantity    Unit   Rate (Y)   Amount (Y)  Township  Villago  Household  Population  Cost/Per.
Guanazi
Bama            52.9         km      60,491    3,200,000          5          5         -            -              -
Debao           78.5         km      58,949    4,627,520          8         18      5,737        27,562           168
Donglan         65.0         km      59,902    3,893,600          3         11      3,788        18,941          206
Duan             48.0        km      57,701    2,769,648          4          6      3,172        14,277           194
Fengshan         41.0        km      56,800    2,328,800          2          7       1,882        9,960          234
Jingxi           74.5        km      63,831    4,755,400          6        22       7,858        38,649           123
Linyun          35.0         km      58,240    2,038,400         2           8       1,392        6,960          293
Mashan           46.5        km      59,919    2,786,224          6         17       7,780       37,470            74
Napo             58.0        km      57,931    3,360,000          5        23       6,134        30,670           110
Pingguo         46.2         km      59,919    2,768,864          5        25      11,700        62,317            44
Tiangdang       36.0         km      61,207    2,203,440          4          9      5,837        30,788            72
Sub-total      581.6         km      59,717   34,731,896        50        151      55,280      277,594           114
Guiihou
Ceheng          25.0         km      63,430    1,585,760          3          7       1,502        6,607          240
Chanasun         10.0        km      32,000       320,000         2         10         303        1,333          240
Dafang          36.0         km      80,000    2,880,000          3         37      2,727        12,000          240
Guanlin         29.0         km      63,448    1,840,000         2          10      1,742         7,667          240
Luodian         63.3         km,    63,949    4,048,000          3         27       3,833        16,867          240
Panxian         77.5         km      80,000    6,200,000          7        30       5,871        25,833          240
Puding            7.6        km      68,421       520,000         1          7         719        3,167          164
Qinglong         45.0        km      80,000    3,600,000         4         33       3,409        15,000          240
Wangmo          40.0         km      80,000    3,200,000          1          6      2,348        10,333          310
Zhenfsng        42.0         km      80,000    3,360,000         4         30       5,455        24,000          140
Zhijin          41.2        km       80,000    3,296,000         3         32       4,030        17,733          186
Ziyun           20.4         km      80,000    1,632,000         2         36       1,545         6,800          240
Sub-total      437.0         km      74,329   32,481,760        35        265      33,484       147,340          220
Yutan
Daguan          40.0         km      80,000    3,200,000          5         11      6,290        28,330          113
Dongchuan       22.7         km      88,106    2,000,000         3         24       9,446        39,410           51
Ludian          83.0         km      86,747    7,200,000         6         29      30,572        91,260           79
Luquan          75.2         km      79,798    6,000,000         8          17      5,220        22,000          273
Qiaojia         46.5         km      96,344    4,480,000          3          3      2,000         8,800          509
Wuding          60.0         km      93,333    5,600,000          7         28      6,950        30,820           182
Yanjin          53.5         km      66,542    3,560,000          3         12     10,500        50,400           71
Yiliang         65.3         km      97,949    6,400,000          4          6      3,333        13,971          458
Yongshan        80.0         km      60,300    4,824,000          5          7      3,010        12,495          386
Zhenxiong       63.0        km      80,000    5,040,000          4         12      23,400       112,000           45
Sub-total      589.2         km      81,978   48,304,000        48        149    100,721       409,486           118
Total        1,607.8         km      71,846  115,517,656       133        565    189,485       834,420           138



- 149 -                                               Annex 6
ANNEX 6 - TABLE 2: RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM
(The Below Figures Represent Base Costs)
County       Quantity 1/   Unit   Rate (Y) 2/  Amount (Y)  Township   Village   Household
Guangzxi    Bama            16,500      person    242           4,000,000         5          35          3,667
Dahua           40,295      person    224           9,008,080        10          50         8,954
Debao           18,438      person    226           4,160,000         5          20         4,097
Donglan         13,780      person    232           3,200,000        10          53         3,062
Duan            21,411      person    246           5,266,040        11          33         4,758
Fengshan        13,250      person    242           3,200,000         5          34         2,944
Jingxi          14,429      person    244           3,520,000        10          45         3,206
Linyun          12,985      person    246           3,200,000         5          41         2,886
Mashan          27,726      person    233           6,446,400         7          31         6,161
Napo            16,821      person    247           4,160,000         6          34         3,738
Pingguo         16,560      person    242           4,000,000         6          37         3,680
Tiangdeng        8,470      person    237           2,011,440         4          13         1,882
Sub-total    220,665        person    236         52,171,960        84          426        49,035
Guizhou    Ceheng           18,900       person    160          3,016,000         7           16         4,295
Changaun        23,140      person    160           3,702,320         3          18         5,259
Dafang          21,300      person    159           3,396,720        15          50         4,841
Guanlin         22,840      person    160           3,654,400         7          30         5,191
Liuzhi           7,750      person    160           1,240,000         3          26         1,761
Luodian         11,000      person    160           1,760,000         2          10         2,500
Panxian         77,500      person    160          12,400,000         8          36        17,613
Puding         24,160       person    160           3,865,840         5          35         5,490
Qinglong       25,000       person    160           4,000,000         7          13         5,682
Wangmo          12,250      person    160           1,960,000         7          17         2,784
Zhenfeng       12,860       person    160          2,057,600          6          39         2,922
Zhijin         15,000       person    160          2,400,000          3          10         3,409
Ziyun          18,750       person    160           3,000,000         2          35         4,261
Sub-total    290,450        person    160          46,452,880        75         335        66,008
Yunnan      Daguan          20,620      person    111           2,280,000         5          22          4,570
Ludian          11,600      person    138           1,600,936         2           9         2,320
Luquan          37,900      person    190           7,200,000         9          83         7,800
Qiaojia          5,340      person    240           1,280,000         6          17         1,060
Wuding          17,290      person    111           1,916,880         7          41         3,760
Yiliang        23,060       person    173           4,000,000         7          37         4,011
Zhenxiong      40,000       person    180           7,200,000         6          20         8,200
Sub-total    155,810        person    164         25,477,816        42          229        31,721
Total         666,925       person    186        124,102,656       201          990       146,764
1/ Population served
2/ Cost/person



- 150 -                                                Annex 6
ANNEX 6 - TABLE 3: RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND RURAL ENERGY PROGRAM
(The Below Figures Represent Base Costs)
County      Quantity  Unit  Rate CY)  Amount (Y)  Township  Village  Household  Population  Cost/Person (Y)    Rsmarks
35kV   10kV
(km)   (km)
A. Rural Electrification (Power Line)
Guangxi  Donglan         20.5       km     44,598       914,265         1          7       1,712         8,671            105                   20.5
Fengshan       22.0      km     61,822   1,360,080           6          40       9,100        45,950            30                   22.0
Tiangdeng      40.0      km   113,454   4,538,150          - 2          14       2,396         9,665           470             40
Sub-total      82.5      km     82,576   6,812,495           9          61      13,208       64,286            106             40   42.5
Guizhou  Changsun                   km               2,400,000 1/    1            12          987        4,175
Dafang         15.0      km   181,333   2,720,000 2/    2               29       3,091        13,600           200                   15.0
Guanlin       126.0      km     27,124   3,417,600           5          35       3,884        17,088           200                  126.0
Liuzhi         10.1      km     34,240       344,800         1           8         979         4,310            80            1.0    9.1
Luodian        78.0      km     23,590   1,840,000           7          36       4,356        19,166            96                   78.0
Puding         34.0      km     39,235   1,334,000           4          12       3,789       16,675             80                   34.0
Qinglong       73.6      km      54,318   4,000,000          5          32       4,545        20,000           200           33.0   40.6
Wangmo         74.4      km      42,548   3,165,600          2          18       3,409        15,000           211           24.4   50.0
Zhsnfeng       46.0      km     48,870   2,248,000           3         20        2,554        11,240           200           24.0   22.0
Zhijin         54.0      km     80,000   4,320,000           4          18       4,909       21,600                          24.0   30.0
Ziyun          56.0      km     55,000   3,080,000           2          17       3,500       15,400            200           23.0   33.0
Sub-total   567.1        km    50,907  28,870,000           36        237      36,003       158,254            182          129.4  437.7
Yunnan   Daguan          84.6       km     41,286   3,492,830           4         16       8,830        39,800            88                   84.6
Luquan         66.5      km     36,167   2,405,120           7         20        7,940       35,500             68                   65.5
Wuding         30.8      km     51,684    1,589,280          7          41      14,090       64,150             25           17.4   13.4
Yanjin         41.0      km     54,634   2,239,998           1           3       3,200       15,500            145           10.0   31.0
Sub-total   222.9        km     43,649   9,727,228          19         80      34,060       154,950             63           27.4 194.45
Total         872.5      km     52,048  45,409,723          64        378      83,271       377,490            120          196.8  674.7
B. Rural Energy - Biogas Digester
Guangxi  Mashan         2,380       no         728   1,732,640          6          6       2,841        11,945            145
Total         2,380      no         728   1,732,640          6           6       2,841        11,945           145
C. Rural Energy - Improved Stove
Guangxi  Mashan         2,841       no        200       568,200         6          6       2,841        14,205             40
Total         2,841      no         200      568,200         6           6       2,841        14,205            40
1/ Cost of a mini-hydro plant
2/ Includes cost of one mini-hydro plant



- 151 -                                              Annex 6
ANNEX 6 - TABLE 4: WATER CONSERVANCY PROGRAM
(The Below Filgures Represent Base Costs)
County      Quantity  Unit  Rate (Y)  Amount (Y)  Township  Village  Household  Population  Cost/Pars
A. Irrigation
Giiangxi  Linyun           80     ha    14,865   1,189,200           2          5         539        2.980          399
Sub-total       60      ha    14,665   1,189,200          2           5         539        2,980          399
Guizhou  Changaun        785      ha      4,112   3,227,920          6         44       5,052       20,805           155
Panxian        674      ha      2,415   1,627,920        11        216      10,870        50,000           33
Puding         547      ha      4,826   2,640,000         4          16      2,946        14,513          182
Qinglong       271      ha      7.380   2,000,000          1          5         870        3,900          513
Zhonfeng       800      ha        630      504,000         1        11       1,880         7,900           64
Zhijin         342      ha      1,871      640,000         1          2         512        2,100          305
Sub-total   3,419       ha      3,112  10,639,840        24        294      22,130        99,218          107
Yunnan   Daguan          223      ha      4,126      920,000         5         10       2,260        9,370            98
Ludian       1,457      ha      1,976   2.879,064          4         11       5,550       25,250           114
Luquan       1,254      ha    15,550  19,500,000           1          4      2,130        10,080        1,935
(Fengguo)
Qiaojia      1,046      ha      4,053   4,239,200          4         10       5,050       21,870           194
Wuding         728      ha      5,448   3,965,840          6         41       4,420       22,110           179
Yanjin       1,133      ha      4,229   4,791,900          5         21      6,400        32,000           150
Yiliang        460      ha      5,688   2,616,600          4          9      2,300        11,500          228
Yongshan       569      ha      4,382   2,493,570          4          9      3,638        14,732           169
Zhenxiong   2,666       ha      4,591  12,240,000        10          72     10,000        45,000          272
Sub-total   9,536       ha      5,626  53,646,174        43         187     41,748       191,912          280
Total       13,035      ha      5,023  65,475,214         69       486      64,417       294,110          223
B. Flood Mitigation/Agricultural Drainage
Guizhou  Zhijin          407      ha      6,624   2,696,000          2          4       1,610        6,320           427
Total          407      ha      6,624   2,696,000          2          4       1,610        6,320          427
C. Soil and Water Conservation
Guizhou  Puding        1,196      ha      3,527   4,218,400          5         53      10,935       44,763            94
Zhijin       1,351      ha      1,617   2,184,000         2         20       6,840       30,800            71
Total        2,547      ha      2,514   6,402,400          7         73     17,775        75,563            85



- 152 -                              Annex 7
SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
LAND AND FARMER DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
A. Introduction
1.    Livelihood systems in the project area are based on subsistence farming, with intermittent
access to small amounts of cash from agricultural and off-farm activities. The average per capita
income level is slowly increasing, but poor households have been largely left out of this
development trend. The objective of the land and farmer development component is to help the
majority of the more than 600,000 project households cross the gap from less-than-subsistence
farming at present to modest levels of surplus production and greater cash income levels at
project full development.
2.    Farming communities in the project area face both an extremely limited natural resource
bases and remoteness from markets and services. Potential production solutions to chronic food
deficits are limited. A development project in such an environment was a new approach in
China, and required a specific strategy. The strategy selected is based on (a) the geographical
concentration of the investment, (b) village development plans integrating tree crops, animal
husbandry, and food production with other project components, and (c) the improvement of poor
farmers' access to agricultural support services.
3.    Land Use Systems. The project area stretches over more than 700 kilometers from north
to south, with climatic conditions ranging from mountain temperate to tropical. Its northern half
is the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau, while the southern half is the karst range region of southwest
Guizhou and northwest Guangxi. The entire area faces similar constraints which are specific
to karst environments: (a) only a small portion of the total land area is suitable for crop
production, and natural resources are in a degraded state in the remainder of the land area, (b)
karst hydrological regimes result in insufficient drinking water and, together with elevation,
restrict paddy cultivation and double-cropping, (c) no cash crop provides a stable source of cash
income, and (d) the effectiveness of previous government interventions to intensify food crop
production has been limited.
4.    Limited Resource Base. 1/ In the karst range region, open karst landscapes are found
on 75 percent of the counties' land area. The remaining area comprises red soil hills. In
Guangxi, despite an annual mean temperature of 20°C, 1,500 mm of rainfall per year, and an
1/    This Annex is based on information provided by the three provincial project management
offices, by 6 counties (Luquan, Wuding and Yiliang in Yunnan; Puding in Guizhou;
Mashan and Duan in Guangxi), on observations during project development field visits,
and interviews with farmers, government workers from township to national level and
provincial researchers, carried out by the five consultants who have taken part in
technical preparation, preappraisal and appraisal. Project area statistics are in Table 2.



- 153 -                               Annex 7
average elevation of only 200-700 meters, karst villages are resource-poor areas. "Sink holes"
in between peaks, from 1 to 5 hectares in size, are the only space available for crop production.
Guizhou karst features 30 percent of the land area in milder slopes, but winter temperatures
decrease as elevation increases from 1,000 m in the south to 1,500 m in the north. Limestone
soils, although originally having fair levels of fertility with a balanced pH, display nutrient
depletion problems for both major (phosphorus and potassium) and trace elements (zinc and
copper) and locally severe erosion.
5.    The Yunnan-Guizhou plateau is a northern high-elevation extension of the karst area, with
limestone as parent material over 40 percent of the area. The average elevation is 2,300 meters
in Northeast Yunnan, and the climate is distinctly cold and dry. At elevations of 2,000 m, mean
annual temperatures are less than 12°C and the annual rainfall is 700 mm with very dry winters.
Whether based on limestone or metamorphic material, soils are mainly acidic, leached yellow
earths, and are very poor in phosphorus and trace elements.  Purple soils on shales, and
limestone soils on karst slopes, are particularly vulnerable to erosion. In addition to this poor
resource base in the uplands, the Yangtze River system has created deep valleys which benefit
from a warm climate but form dry, degraded and remote environments.
6.    Watersheds in the karst range region cover at most only a few natural villages, and
cropping mainly takes place on narrow stone-walled terraces on lower slopes. Only 5 percent
of the land area is cultivated. The remaining land, two thirds of which consists of steep rocky
slopes, comprises mostly degraded forest and bushes. It is used as extensive pasture, but food
crops are also grown in between rocks, in earth basins sometimes less than 1 meter in diameter.
Apart from a few government-backed plantations where Pinus massoniana and Cunninghamia
lanceolata predominate, there are no large forest areas.
7.    On the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau, watersheds range in size from one to several townships.
One fourth of the land area is cultivated in Guizhou and 15 percent in Yunnan. The forest area,
7 percent, consists of a few large conservation forests with mainly Pinus yunnanensis. Most of
the remaining 60 percent of the land area is used as common pasture. Half of it, located on
open karst, has very limited potential for increased production. There are visible signs of
on-going degradation, due not only to timber cutting, but also increasingly to overgrazing by
goats.
8.    Continuing Resource Degradation.  Recent decades have witnessed the continuing
degradation of the resource base. In order to provide fuelwood and timber to industries, heavy
deforestation occurred even in remote areas. With rapid population growth and restricted
out-migration, the available farmland per capita decreased to 0.06 ha in the karst range region
and 0. 1 ha on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau. As market access was limited and agricultural
policy only supported grain production, farmers had no capacity to develop those activities which
better fit the natural resource base, such as forestry, tree crops and animal raising, and could
only extend food crops onto marginal sloped land.



- 154 -                               Annex 7
9.    The degradation of the resource base is related to migration patterns of previous
centuries. The project area includes the region where the Han stopped their southwestern
migration and settled into the midst of local ethnic groups. Moreover, the late-coming migrating
groups, the Miao and Yao people, were confined in the uplands where they practiced shifting
cultivation. This pattern of human settlement was particularly unsustainable in northeast
Yunnan, where neighboring Sichuan province was already a haven for migrants.
10.   Decollectivization in the 1980s was another period of resource degradation. Insecure
land tenure arrangements resulted in further deforestation. Large tracks of terraces and water
conservation schemes were subject to rapid decay. Finally, draft animals could not be evenly
distributed and the intensity of cultivation consequently declined.
11.   Cropping Patterns. In the karst range region, project villages are located away from
larger irrigated valleys, which are typically planted to double-crop paddy in Guangxi and to
paddy followed by rapeseed and wheat in Guizhou. Paddy in Guizhou accounts for 20 percent
of the cultivated area in most villages, but is grown by only 20 percent of the households. This
crop is totally absent in Guangxi's karst villages, although paddy terraces are found in villages
located on red soil hills. Although the 0.3 hectare-large typical farm is entirely double-cropped,
the cropping system is restricted to one crop of corn followed by one marginal crop of soybeans
or early maturing corn in Guangxi, and winter potatoes or wheat in Guizhou.
12.   The average farm on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau grows corn, potato, buckwheat, rye
and pulse crops on 0.5 ha. Winter wheat, restricted to lower elevations, is grown on 40 percent
of the cultivated area in Guizhou, 20 percent in Yunnan. The intercropping of potato with corn
has been developed for higher elevations, but requires a high level of inputs. Paddy, grown in
rotation with wheat and faba beans, occupies 5 percent of the farmed area but is confined in
villages with an elevation lower than 1,500-1,800 m. Rainfed fields extend to steep slopes and
elevations above 2,300 m. In these high elevation areas, corn is not grown. Instead, buckwheat
swiddens comprise 10 percent to the cultivated area.
13.   Throughout the project area, average corn yields are only 2.5 tons/ha.  Corn
intensification is limited to certain areas where uneven urea applications allow yields of 3.5
tons/ha. Elsewhere yields remain as low as 1.5 ton/ha -- far less than the average yields of 6.5
tons/ha achieved in areas with intensive use of modern inputs.
14.   Cash-income Generating Activities. Cash crops have been the basis of agricultural
development in project counties, but project villages have not participated to a significant extent
in this process. Tobacco in project villages located on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau is limited
by elevation, and sugarcane in the karst ranges by transportation costs and water resources.
Without these crops, farmers have no stable source of cash to buy agricultural inputs for food
crops, and reliable marketing channels for these inputs have not been set up. However, as urban
and industrial markets are coming within reach of mountain counties, local governments are
promoting production bases for a wider range of cash crops, particularly tree crops including
tea, fruit trees, nuts, medicinal forest products and timber plantations, as well as mulberry and



- 155 -                               Annex 7
silk production. These bases are initially located in valleys closer to county seats. While they
are starting to expand towards the uplands along the road network, few project villages have
been reached so far.
15.   Thanks largely to increasingly active rural fairs, many project area households are now
investing in pig production. Households in the three provinces now keep on average 1.4 to 2.1
pigs, and sell 0.8 to 1.3 head every year. Cattle and buffalo are still used primarily for
plowing, and only 10 percent of the population of these animals is marketed each year. The
poorest households are those unable to raise any animals. Ten percent of project households do
not raise pigs, and half have no draft animals.
16.   Land use systems in project villages suffer from chronic cash shortfalls. Cash income
levels are low and unstable, and farmers direct cash towards short-term investments such as
nitrogen fertilizer applications and pig feed. The majority of households rely on short-term cash
advances every year to meet their subsistence needs, but individual households have almost no
access to formal rural credit. 2/ Therefore livelihood systems are two-tiered. Farmers use
extensive mountain farming systems to minimize risks for staple crops and, at the same time,
they develop cash-oriented activities.
17.   Government Assistance. Policies and agricultural extension activities have remained
focused on corn intensification. 3/ Intensifying the only crop which has a high yield potential
is a sound strategy, but has not been effective in the poorest villages in the project counties.
The same packages, based on hybrid corn with plastic sheet mulching, have been extended to
(a) areas with more potential, for which the objective is to reduce the overall county grain
deficit, and (b) resource-poor areas. Plastic sheet hybrid corn has proven to be economically
feasible only where supplementary irrigation is available, or where subsidies or interplanted
crops (particularly potatoes in Northeast Yunnan), reduce the effective cost of plastic sheeting.
Furthermore, this technology tends to increase soil erosion, and depletes soil mineral reserves
when not used along with adequate fertilizer quantities. Seed production bases are not large
enough to meet increased demand for hybrid seeds, and have problems distributing seeds to
remote counties. The variety selection process has also seldom taken farmers' consumption
habits and tastes into account. Farmers who adopt hybrid varieties typically have higher income
levels and are in the position to exchange a large part of their corn production for rice and wheat
for home consumption, or to use the corn as animal feed.
18.   Due to limited funding and other constraints, government intervention in poverty areas
has relied on methods designed for intensive agriculture in flat land areas.  In contrast to
Northwest China's Loess Plateau, which has greatly benefitted from extensive govemment
2/    State Statistical Bureau baseline survey of poor households (see Annex 8).
3/    Agricultural Extension Newsletter No. 70, Yunnan Agriculture Department, September
1993, and interview in Beijing with MOA's Agricultural Extension General Station.



- 156 -                               Annex 7
support for applied agricultural research (see Strategies), there is no national research program
for karst environments, and no adapted technology packages are available. Guizhou and
Guangxi have research facilities for forestry, including non-wood forest products, but these
rarely address the special needs and potential of upland areas.  For livestock, technical
experience for pasture development has been provided by Australia and New Zealand.
However, research on upland crop production has only begun in recent years in Yunnan, and
little research has been carried out on watershed management and terracing methods. Research
and demonstration sites of integrated land use consist of only a few villages called "ecological
agriculture villages".
B. Selection and Design of Component Activities
19.   Component Strategy. The component would take better advantage of the actual natural
resource base of upland villages, exploit emerging markets, and capitalize on favorable ongoing
policy reforms.  The principal risks associated with the component are the uncontrolled
development of wastelands and unequal access to project benefits.
20.   Concentration of the Investment.  The total project area and population has been
constrained to a level consistent with an average agricultural investment per household of Y
1,200 to Y 1,600 (in base cost values). Comprising only half the townships of the 35 project
counties, selected project townships are situated in the upper and lower parts of the watersheds
on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau and are located away from larger valleys in the karst range area.
Furthermore, the investment is focussed on 52 percent of the administrative villages in project
townships (see SAR paras. 2.42-2.44).
21.   Village Plans for Wasteland Development. Ongoing favorable policy reforms now make
possible better utilization of the large area of wasteland (poorly utilized slope land) through the
development of forest products, tree crops and fodder production. The 8-7 Plan has shifted from
a single focus on grain self-sufficiency to support for more diversified agricultural activities.
Tree crops would play an important role both as a source of income and as a contribution to
environmental protection. Longer term land tenure rights for wasteland are just starting to be
implemented. A large range of tree crop species adapted to karst and mountain environments
has already been identified (Table 3), and forest, except in arid valleys in Northeast Yunnan,
may regenerate on slopes within two decades. Taking advantage of this opportunity, the
component focuses on developing tree crops on wasteland.  Since forest plantation and
regeneration are already addressed by other on-going programs, project investment will be
primarily directed to other tree crops. Pasture development is only an option at high elevations
in Yunnan. Elsewhere, interplanted fodder trees and grass are more appropriate.
22.   Integrated Support of Cash Income Generating Activities. On the basis of village plans,
the project supports an integrated set of activities for several years. As far as possible and for
as many households as possible, the village plan includes increased agricultural inputs for food
crops integrated with (a) investment in activities generating cash income in the near term, such



- 157 -                               Annex 7
as pig raising, annual cash crops or mulberry, and (b) the development of longer term activities,
particularly tree crops. The investment includes the cost of tree crop inputs until the first
marketable harvest.
23.   Another means to increase cash incomes in corn-based land use systems in the project
area is better utilization of corn stalks. Full advantage can be taken of this resource, since other
sources of fuel, including shallow coal deposits on the Yunnan-Guizhou plateau and fuelwood
resources which are starting to regenerate in the karst range region, are available. The project
invests in improved technologies (manual and mechanized corn stalk shredders and ammoniated
stalk tanks) to use corn stalk as feed. This, together with the development of other fodder
resources, will allow a marked increase of animal numbers, which will in turn provide more
organic fertilizer for corn intensification.
24.   Farming systems in the project area comprise the following two sub-systems: slightly
intensified corn in more fertile plots, and extensive corn with a wide range of other food crops
in other plots. While the improvement of the first sub-system must rely on increased use of
modern inputs, lower-cost technologies have the potential to improve the second. Project area
farmers are aware of modern inputs, and are willing to use them, provided they have stable cash
incomes and reliable sources of input supply. It is expected that, by the time of project full
development, cash incomes will increase to levels sufficient to provide facilitate increased use
of such modern inputs. In addition, the introduction of appropriate varieties and the reduction
of post-harvest losses can improve the food balance at minimum  cost.  However, such
technologies have not been adequately explored, and careful applied research must be initiated.
Research needs identified during project preparation include the upgrading of potato storage in
farmers' houses, the prevention of rat damage, the improvement of compost made of forest
leaves, and the introduction of varieties of secondary grain crops, such as rye and buckwheat,
from Himalayan and alpine regions where these are major crops.
25.   Government Intervention and Farmer Participation. The design and implementation of
village plans are expected to be a process where both government agencies and local
communities gain more means and expertise in land use planning, in order to take full advantage
of the project, and to sustain development efforts after the project ends. In particular, an
approach enhancing the participation of local communities has been supported. Counties and
townships have prepared menus of options for households' agricultural investment. During
implementation, on-farm research sites would play a key role in further demonstrating the
efficiency of participatory approaches.
C. Component Risks
26.   Equity. The actual level of investment of each household must be great enough to
achieve a sustainable increase in incomes and well-being. At the same time, the better-endowed
parts of the project area, as well as the small portion of entrepreneur farmers, are in a position
to absorb much higher investments than the average available figure. Taking into account the



- 158 -                              Annex 7
limitations inherent to monitoring the access of 600,000 households to project benefits, the
simple means of limiting investment on the basis of a maximum per capita investment (see Box
1) was agreed upon for the land and farmer development component.
Box 1: Investment Level Per Household
The project includes only the poorest quarter of the 35 project counties' administrative
villages. Limiting the number of project beneficiaries in this way allows for an average
investment per household of Y 1,200 in Yunnan, Y 1,450 in Guizhou, Y 1,600 in Guangxi (40
percent of these figures being farmers' own labor and on-farm produced inputs). The following
considerations guided component investment intensity decisions:
*     Households' maximum investment level would be twice the above mentioned averages:
Y 2,400 in Yunnan, Y 2,900 in Guizhou, and Y 3,200 in Guangxi.
*     7 percent of the investment would be directed to agricultural support services.
*     These levels of investment would be sufficient to support the equivalent of 3 cows, or 2
sows, or 0.02 hectare of pond aquaculture, or 0. 15 hectare of longan, or 0.4 ha. of
medicinal/spice tree crop per household.
27.   To achieve equitable household access to services, project support for training would
allow direct training of 56 percent of all project households, thereby including a large number
of illiterate farmers. Technical support and marketing services would be provided to farmers
willing to join tree crop and animal production bases, as well as to those investing in the
improvement of their own home gardens or animals. As these guidelines depart from the
prevailing practices, their implementation will have to be closely monitored.
28.   Wasteland Development. The major risks in the development of wastelands are related
to land tenure and to markets (see Box 2). Much of the land registered as wasteland is actually
already planted to food crops. However low-yielding those plots may be, they are essential as
an emergency food resource, particularly for the absolute poor. Important problems in the
recent past have been (a) tree planting programs undertaken without the consent of farmers, and
(b) the ongoing attribution of the usufruct of some tracts of wasteland to entrepreneur farmers
through auction sales. In the Yangtze River reforestation scheme in Northeast Yunnan, for
example, there is a clear negative impact of plantations on villages' grassland resources. 4/
4/    Based on interviews with farmers in Yiliang and Luquan Counties, Yunnan, and with
Yunnan provincial experts.



- 159 -                              Annex 7
29.   An assurance would be sought at negotiations that, for all land planted to tree crops under
the project, farmers receive long-term, individual and inheritable land use rights, without having
to pay for it. Fodder intercropping in reforestation schemes, for cut-and carry during trees'
young stages, and for grazing later on, should also be allowed.
30.   Most of the tree and cash crop species adapted to karst and/or mountain environments,
such as Chinese medicinal products, minor spices and resins, yield products which are subject
to limited and unstable markets. Counties have appropriately directed some of their TVE
investment to processing of these products, and there is a consequential need for continuing
market assessment as a routine part of component monitoring.
Box 2: Wastelands
The following considerations have been taken into account in component activities which
involve wastelands in project areas:
*     Under Chinese Land Administration law, wasteland is that land neither registered as
cultivated land nor attributed to other uses (mainly forestry and grazing).
*     Local usufruct situations are complex. In one village may be found individual contracts
with households, collective contract with villages, or the land may have remained under
the township Land Bureau.
*     There is presently some 641,000 hectares of wasteland in the project villages. Of this,
16,000 ha have already be planned by townships for food crops (in Yunnan only), 58,000
ha for trees crops, 123,000 ha for forestry and some 250,000 ha for grassland.
*     At least 191,000 hectares of project area wasteland is in fact already be planted to
extensive food crops (mostly corn), an area equivalent to 70 percent of the 284,000
hectares of registered cultivated land.
*     Under the project, more than 56,000 hectares of wasteland would be planted to tree
crops.
D. Component Implementation
31.   Selection of Subprojects. The 35 counties have prepared their own subprojects for each
crop or animal species they plan to develop. The review of subproject proposals by provincial
management offices has followed rules to ensure the adequate targeting of the absolute poor and
technical and economic viability. As the component would be implemented on a program basis,



- 160 -                               Annex 7
it is expected that counties will readjust their proposals during the life of the project. These
readjustments would be undertaken on the basis of the guidelines established during project
preparation.
32.   Although all project areas would each receive a balanced share of project investment,
individual activities would be closely tailored to local natural resources, climatic conditions, and
market status. For example, fruit trees and tea are best adapted to red soils, mulberry and
annual cash crops require more fertile soils, and semi-tropical crops are best suited to the arid
valleys of the Yangtze River system.  The advance of agricultural inputs for food crop
improvement would be restricted to corn in Guangxi and Guizhou, and to corn and potato in
Yunnan. The investment in paddy would be limited to small-scale paddy land development
schemes. All households currently not raising an animal would receive the opportunity to
engage in animal husbandry, particularly goat raising and pig fattening. Finally, flexibility in
the implementation of planned subprojects would be needed in order to take into account the
evolution of markets.
33.   Selection of Technical Standards. Fruit and other tree crops are subject to significant
levels of commercial and technical risk. Since project households have little or no financial
capacity to bear these risks, and would indeed be unwilling to do so, technical standards were
selected in order to reduce these risks as far as possible. This implied the use of technologies
which are less intensive than those used in plain areas in China, and are better suited to
small-scale household farming. This was often a new approach in project counties, particularly
for fruit trees.
34.   Even at the cost of reduced total output during the earlier years of production, tree crop
densities and fertilizer application rates would be set at reasonably low levels. Fertilizer
applications for both perennial and annual crops would focus on phosphorus, potassium and trace
elements, in relation with soil deficiencies, and not on nitrogen. The quality of seeds and
seedlings, and their adaptation to the environment and to consumer demand would be carefully
taken into consideration. Pesticides would be of low toxicity (pyrethrenoid insecticides, for
example, would partly replace organophosphorate ones).
35.   Over-engineering would also be avoided. Terracing for grain crops would generally be
restricted to the rehabilitation of more fertile terraced plots, or to stopping locally intense
on-going erosion. Terracing for tree crops would not commonly be undertaken, and in any case
should be limited to I to 1.5 meter large contour belts. Irrigation development would be for
labor-intensive irrigation only, and would mainly consist of small water tanks for fruit trees, nuts
and corn. No warehouses would be built in villages.
36.   The same approach is also necessary for animal husbandry and aquaculture. Animal
housing would use simple local materials. Marketing rates would only be expected to increase
slowly. Pig and poultry feed would mostly be processed on the farm using farmers' own corn
and by-products.



- 161 -                              Annex 7
37.   Village Plans. Appropriate phasing of component activities is essential to generating
beneficiaries' confidence in the component activities and maintaining farmers' interest in
participating in these activities. Some project activities would be expected to last four years.
A proportion of participating farmers would only join activities on the second year. Each
household would then require three years to complete tree crop plantations: plantations would
be spread on two years in order to limit technical risks at plantation, and the impact of alternate
bearing later on; additional planting to compensate seedling losses would take place on years 2
and 3.
38.   Some of the counties, villages and farmers would take the lead, and serve as
demonstration cases for neighboring areas. This is an usual process in China, but the project
has set up guidelines so that demonstration situations are not only better-off ones, do not absorb
an unbalanced part of the investment, and that their different environment is taken into account
when extending their experience to other situations. In addition, a significant number of new
demonstration farmers would be selected, including minority people and women farmers, and
literacy would not be a prerequisite for participating demonstration farmers.
39.   Improvement of Services. In order to set up reliable channels of agricultural inputs, the
project provides support for seedling nurseries, seed companies and veterinary services. A
central nursery would be upgraded in each county, and agriculture and forestry bureaus would
train skilled farmers to become specialized in this field, so that seedling production can be
sustained after project completion. Seed companies would invest in expanding their production
bases and warehouse capacity, under the conditions that they (a) produce both (i) hybrid corn
and (ii) non-hybrid corn and seeds of secondary grain crops, and (b) emphasize virus-free potato
seed production. Some counties would modify their extension regulations so that valuable
non-hybrid corn varieties, although offering lower yields, may pass official variety tests, and the
project would support the dissemination of the experience gained to the rest of the project area.
Finally, vaccination services would be extended to poorer townships.
40.   The investment in agricultural extension would support more frequent contact between
extension agents and project households. Township extension workers, until now in charge of
implementing separate programs in grain crops, special crops, forestry and animal husbandry,
should form a comprehensive task force to support village programs. They would visit villages,
particularly the expanded network of demonstration farmers, and organize training days for
households. Households would be trained not only on technical matters but also on farm
management basics. Township technicians' training would focus both on specialized crops or
animal types and on village land use. In addition to those subjects, some of the county
technicians would receive training in market awareness.
41.   Applied res*rch would be an effective means of identifying farmers' needs, and of
designing and exteqling related low-cost technologies for food crops and animal husbandry. It
would also play a coordinating role in the choice of relevant species and varieties for tree and
food crops. Finally, it would be in charge of regularly upgrading technical standards during
project implementation, particularly for tree crops, as well as monitoring pests and diseases.



- 162 -                              Annex 7
E. Monitoring
42.   The monitoring plan is designed to provide timely information on (a) the physical
progress for component activities (i.e., crop establishment and land development area, numbers
of animals purchased, training and extension activities, etc.), (b) the availability and use of
critical inputs including seeds, seedlings, and veterinary services, and (c) trends in the identified
risks.
43.   Contracts set up with county agriculture and forestry bureaus in charge of tree seedling
nurseries, and with provincial and county seed companies, would request the timely supply of
information regarding the names and characteristics of varieties produced, the results of quality
inspection, and the schedule of shipment to project townships. The monitoring of animals
purchased would take place at the time when these animals are vaccinated by township agents.
Consultants would be required for market follow-up.
44.   Contracts set up with project villages would specify (a) households' rights related to the
main identified risks, including the attribution of land tenure rights prior to tree crop
establishment, the free decision to join village production bases, the right to carry on
interplanting food and fodder crops in tree plantations, the opportunity for every household to
invest in household animal husbandry, and access to training and technical support services, (b)
the maximum agricultural investment per household, and (c) principles for sound environmental
and watershed management. In particular, animal numbers and management would remain
within limits allowed by drinking water and grazing resources. The design and implementation
of these contracts would be monitored by offices of various levels, including the provincial
project management offices. Direct interviews of project households would be an appropriate
monitoring mechanism.
45.   Information regarding training and extension activities would be provided by counties and
would include (a) the names and villages of farmers taking part in the demonstration network
(highlighting new additions), and (b) the dates and locations of training activities, with audience
numbers. Finally, the identification and approval of relevant research proposals would take
place every year. The dissemination of research results through field days, meetings and written
information would be planned and monitored.



- 163 -                                 Annex 7
Table 1: Regional Variation
Location      North  Elevation  Rainfall   Annual    January
latitude                   mean temp. mean temp.
YUNNAN
Ludian            27°20'      1950      750        11.6         2.0
Fengguo reservoir  26010'      900      700        20.3        12.0
Wuding            25050'      1700     1000        15.1
Kunming           25 000°     1900      1000       16.1         9.5
GUIZHOU
Dafang            27010'      1500      950
Guiyang           26°30'      1100     1200        15.2         5.0
Panxian            25080      1400     1300                     6.1
Luodian           25030'    450        1200        19.6        10.1
GUANGXI
Donglan           24°40I    200        1500                    10.7
Baise             23°50'    200        1250       21.8         13.0



-  164-                                                       Annex 7
Table 2. Project Area Statistics.
Items                        Unit           Guangxi               Guizhou                Yunnan               Total
Project    Project    Project    Project   Project     Project     Project    Project
t'ships    villages   t'ships    villages   t'ships   villages     t'ships    villages
Townships                    number          91         91         117        117       82           82         290        290
Administrative villages      number          912        515       1,855        826      669         457        3,436      1,798
Rural households             number          385        187         497        197      412         251        1,294       635
Rural population             number        1,836        878       2,156        827    1.858        1,131       5,850      2,836
Land area                    '000 ha        1,431    (1,055)      1,330      (745)   1,396         1,031       4,157     (2,831)
Plowed area                  '000 ha         113        (51)        194        109      179         124         486        (284)
Paddy field                  '000 ha          35        (11)         43       (19)       14           8          92         (38)
Irrigated paddy field        '000 ha          22         (6)         20         (8)     (14)          (8)
Upland field                  000 ha          78        (41)        151        (90)     165         114          394       (245)
Terraced upland field        '000 ha          28        (16)         22                 116          52          166
Irrigated upland field       '000 ha           0         (0)          0         (0)      (8)
Wasteland area                000 ha         326       (240)        394       (221)     253         180          973       (641)
planned for forestry      '000 ha          76        (51)        148       (45)                   27                    (123)
planned for grazing       '000 ha         114        (79)         99                             123
planned for tree crops '   '000 ha         25        (25)         48       (24)                    9                     (58)
planned for food crops    '000 ha           9         (0)         35                              16
Present forest area          '000 ha         207       (152)        173        (91)                 190                    (433)
Present grassland area       '000 ha          89        (66)        177       (99)                  123                    (288)
Sown area                    '000 ha         224       (101)        290      (163)                  150                    (414)
Grain area                   '000 ha         204        (96)        232        143                  124                    (363)
Grain production             '000 ton        423       (173)        464      (210)                  269                    (652)
Paddy area                   '000 ha          42        (11)         34       (21)                    8                     (40)
Paddyyield                   ton/ha          3.9       (3.5)        4.2       (3.1)                 4.1                    (3.4)
Com area                    'I Gha            96        (47)         75       (47)                   47                    (141)
Corn yield                   ton/ha          2.4       (2.1)        2.6       (2.4)                 2.5                    (2.3)
Potato area                  '000 ha           0          0          18         (9)                  30                     (39)
Potato yield                 ton/ha                                 9.4       (4.6)                  11                    (9.7)
Tree crop area               ha           41,200     (8,300)     27,500    (12,000)  44,000       (9,800)    112,700    (30.100)
of which: fruit trees        ha            5,300     (2,400)      3,500     (1,400)               2,700                  (6,500)
mulberry               ha                                                                    (500)                 (1,000)
tea                    ha            1,200      (600)       1.600       500    1,600        1,000       4,400      (2,100)
nut trees              ha              100                              900                  (900)
star anise             ha           18,300
tung                   ha              300                            6.300
Pig                          '000 head       960       (400)        690      (276)                 (502)                 (1.178)
Cattle/buffalo               '000 head       470       (190)        520      (208)                 (176)                   (574)
Goat/sheep                   '000 head       200        (95)         70       (28)                 (126)                   (249)
Poultry                      '000 head     2,700     (1,100)      1,400      (560)                 (703)                 (2,363)
Available grain per capita   kg              182       (160)        163      (160)                 (160)
% of population with grain   %                55       (55)         44        (45)                   60
less than 150 kg
Rural per capita income      Y               285       (265)        250      (250)                  166
% of population with income  %               76        (80)         85        (85)                   83
less than Y 320
Villages with access to road  number         469                    998                             312
electricity       number         415                    692                              284
telephone        number          207                     26                             449
Note:
Township-level data (village-level in Yunnan) were provided by provincial project management offices.
Figures at administrative village level (into brackets) were assessed based on data provided by one county in each province.



- 165 -                                               Annex 7
Table 3. Tree crop species and areas.
TREE CROPS                                                  uses           Total   Guangxi  Guizhou    Yunnan
Total                                                                       71,236    29,254    21,385    20,597
Chinese chestnut           Castanea mollissima              F                7,765    2,024      1,209    4,532
Forest regeneration                                                          5,521    3,740      1,781
Mulberry                                                                     5,094    2,354      1,411     1,329
Walnut                     Juglans sp. 1/                   F                5,071               1,031     4,040
Eucommia                   Eucommia ulmoides, Eucommiaceae  B: med.          4,554        0      3,997       557
Black locust               Robinia pseudoacacia             L: fodder        4,475      933       1,637    1,905
and other fodder trees
Star anise                 Illicium verum                   F: spice         3,436    3,436
Tea                                                                          2,876     1,309      1,567
Tung oil                   Aleurites fordii                 resin            2,490      702       1,788
Sichuan pepper             Zanthoxyllum bungei              F: spice         2,317                 984     1,333
Chinese cinnamon           Cinnamomum cassia                B, L: spice      2,275    2,275
Bamboo                     1/                               timber, shoots    2,210    1,530        80       600
Persimmon                                                                    2,062    2,062
Longan                                                                       1,788    1,788
Cryptomeria                Cryptomeria fortunei             timber           1,756                         1,756
Chinese fir                Cunninghamia lanceolata                           1,617                1,617
Mume                       Prunus mume                                       1,465     1,465
Ficus                      Ficus sp.                        L: med.          1,300     1,300
Gallnut                    gall of parasit aphid on         tannin           1,240        0        133     1,107
on Chinese sumac           Rhus chineosis
Honeysuckle                Lonicera confusa                 Fl: med.         1,236     1,236         0
Cork tree                  Phellodendron amurense, Rutaceae    med.          1,121                         1,121
Gingko                     Gingko biloba                    F                  975                 975
Apple                                                                          965                  20       945
Other tree crops           1/                                                  960                 960
Flowering quince           Chaenomeles sinensis             F                  865      865          0
Eucalyptus                                                                    761       614        147
Yunnan pine                                                                   748                            748
Other med. trees           1/                                                 645                  645
Hawthorn                                                    F                 563       563
Pomelo                                                                        469       363        106
Mountain grape             Vitis sp.                        F                 468       468
Orange                                                                        412                  412
Pomegranate                                                                   384                            384
Other fruit                1/                                                 310                  310
White wax insect           Ericerus pela                    resin             240                            240
on ash tree                on Fraxinus chinensis
Passion fruit                                                                 233                  233
Lacquer tree               Rhus vernicifera                 resin              190                 190
Kuding tea                 Cratoxylum prunifolium, Guttiferae   L: tea         117      117
Cape jasmine               Gardenia augusta, Rubiaceae      Fl: arom.          116                 116
Lychee                                                                        110       110
Mushroom bamboo            1/                               Med. mushroom      36                   36
Notes:
1/: several species, or unspecified species.
Areas are in hectares.
Parts of plant: B = bark, F = fruit, Fl = flower, L = leaf, T = tuber.
Uses: med. = medicinal, food proc. = food processing.



-166-                              Annex 8
Poverty Monitoring Component
Introduction
1.   An independent and effective poverty monitoring system is vital to obtaining an
accurate identification of the poor and in assessing the impact of poverty reduction
activities. The poverty monitoring component of the project would support the
establishment of an objective poverty monitoring system at the project level. The system
would provide a credible and comprehensive poverty profile for the project areas, track
input and process indicators and determine the impact of the project's individual
components. Furthermore, it would provide an important testing ground for assisting in
the establishment of a national poverty monitoring system. Project activities would build
on the State Statistical Bureau's (SSB) existing survey instruments, with adjustments to
target project areas and to improve modules on both the individual and community level.
The four elements of the poverty monitoring system include: (a) upgrading SSB's rural
household survey; (b) carrying out pilot, baseline and annual follow-up surveys, (c)
processing and analyzing data collected, and (d) disseminating findings.
Existing Sources of Poverty Information
2.   In order to adequately identify the poor and to monitor changes in poverty, it is
important to have objective and accurate estimates of poverty incidence. Furthermore,
for policy purposes it is useful to have agreement on the extent and magnitude of
poverty. Unfortunately, estimates of poverty incidence vary greatly and much work has
yet to be done to establish reliable and comprehensive estimates of poverty. The major
sources of poverty information come from household surveys, community data gathering
mechanisms and institutional records.
Household Surveys
3.   The Rural Socioeconomic Survey (RSS) Administered by SSB. The SSB
administers a comprehensive rural household survey which covers 67,000 households in
857 counties of 30 provinces (cities). Survey design contains about 1,400 entries and
includes information on household demographics, assets, educational attainment,
ethnicity, production, income, expenditure and consumption. In practice, sample
households are trained to record daily changes. These household "accounts" or "diaries"
are collected monthly or quarterly by SSB. The collected information is then cleaned,
aggregated and computerized. SSB has a branch office in each province and 8,250 well-
trained full-time staff/enumerators, and 27,000 part-time enumerators.



- 167 -                            Annex 8
4.   Ministry of Agriculture Household Surveys. The MOA, until the early 1990s,
administered household surveys to gather information on agricultural statistics such as
production, yield, and costs. Rural household income calculated did not include
remittance, transfers, gifts, or production for own-consumption. Consumption and
expenditure information was not included in the surveys.
Community Data Gathering and Institutional Records
5.   The Agricultural Statistics Division of Provincial Statistical Bureaus (PSB) gathers
information at the community level through its "Rural Socioeconomic Card". The
purpose of this card is to obtain information common to all households in a township or
administrative village, especially concerning access of the community to infrastructure
and social services (education, health and nutritional facilities). The card consists of
about two hundred entries covering geographic, ethnic, social and economic
characteristics, production areas, cropping, production, income, expenditure of major
agricultural activities and community access to social services. The card is comprised of
a set of pre-formatted tables that are aggregated when submitted from township up to
county level. The information is collected through several pre-existing sources. Most of
the community information such as total area of cultivated land, crop sown areas, and
agro-machinery utilization are gathered from AMS reports; marketed products and price
information come from local Industrial-Commerce Management Bureaus; health and
education data from respective bureaus, and others data is obtained from AMS and SSB
surveys. The major problem of the County Card system is its unreliability which is due
to its small sample size and the fact that sometimes results obtained are modified due to
political reasons. It is known that poverty profile and poverty lines based on the County
Card information are prone to subjectivity.
6.   Ad-hoc Data Gathering. Besides the above listed sources, important poverty
monitoring information can be obtained from records collected through various other
venus such as ad-hoc sectoral surveys, small surveys using nonprobability samples, case
studies, sociological and anthropological studies. Although these approaches do not
provide a systematic basis for monitoring poverty in the long-run, they provide important
information on the correlates of poverty while some of the above more formalized
approaches may not.
Poverty Monitoring & Evaluation for the Project Area
7.   The project will establish for the project areas an objective poverty monitoring
system using improved survey instruments. The system would provide a credible and
comprehensive poverty profile for the project areas, analyze the accuracy of targeting
benefits to the absolute poor, and measure and evaluate the impact of the project's
individual components. Furthermore, it would provide a very useful testing ground for
the establishment of a national poverty monitoring system.



- 168 -                            Annex 8
8.  In general, the most efficient way of establishing a poverty monitoring system is to
work with existing survey institutions and modify their instruments to fit project
purposes. Household surveys are the most reliable and appropriate for evaluating project
implementation. Because the SSB conducts the most extensive rural household survey
and because it is independent from the SWPRP, it should take the lead in monitoring
poverty in the project. However, the SSB's survey questionnaires should be modified
for specific project purposes. Furthermore, an unaggregated community level survey
administered by SSB at the administrative village level or township level should be used
to supplement the household survey. Community surveys should gather information on
the seasonal local labor market, labor mobility, local market prices, and access to social
services. The project would provide technical assistance to SSB to develop mechanisms
which would enhance survey consistency and reliability.
9.   The Pilot Survey ($20,000). While SSB's current rural survey reflects provincial
averages and the sample size is to small to give poverty county level information.
Hence, the extent and magnitudes of the absolute poor in these areas are little
understood. In order to obtain a poverty profile of the poorest individuals, the SSB
undertook a 600 household sample survey in September 1994. Given funding and timing
constraints, the pilot survey was conducted once. A simplified and extended version of
SSB's household survey was used which had fewer entries and obtained information on
household production, consumption, income, expenditures, education, health, labor
mobility, and credit experience. The results from the survey are summarized in Annex 2.
10. Baseline and Follow-up Surveys ($ 1 million). In order to obtain a poverty
profile of the project areas and to track project implementation progress, a baseline
survey would be implemented in 1995 with follow-up surveys to be conducted each
December during the remaining five years of the project. For the baseline survey,
approximately 4,000 sample households from project areas will be surveyed enabling
average per capita income estimates to be within ±5 percent. For the follow-up
surveys, the sample size would be about 2000 households. All the baseline sample
households will be interviewed again in year 2000 to evaluate overall project impact.
11.  A three-stage sampling method would be used. Instead of stratifying the sample
administratively, namely, county-township-village and then households, it would be more
cost-effective if the project areas are first stratified into Guangxi-Guizhou karst area and
Guizhou-Yunnan Plateau. Villages and households can be chosen from each primary
unit. In any case, sample size for each sub-unit can be calculated.
12.  Questionnaires would be designed, tested and modified in the first half of 1995
followed by staff training, discussions and workshops. Based on lessons learned from the
pilot survey, the baseline and follow-up survey would employ the "diary" or the account
book method currently used by the SSB. This method generally minimizes biases due to
memory lapses because income and expenditures are recorded daily. After each survey
is implemented, the information would be processed, and LGPR and SSB would
collaborate on the publication of an annual report.



- 169 -                            Annex 8
13.  At present, SSB is planning on establishing a nation-wide poverty monitoring and
evaluation system. In its proposal, SSB intends to overhaul its current survey
instruments to make them more compatible with the Living Standard Measurement
Survey (LSMS). If SSB's proposal can get funded, the project's baseline and follow-up
surveys can be incorporated into the overall monitoring system for comparative purpose.
14.  Institutional Records and Ad-hoc Surveys. Finally, as mentioned in the
proceeding section, institutional records and information collected through ad-hoc
surveys are vital inputs to effective poverty reduction. It is critical that the project make
use of these resources. For example, health center records compiled by each level of
health administrative offices and primary education records maintained by local
education offices can provide useful information (immunization rates, repetition and
drop-out rates, etc) for poverty monitoring which is not captured in the household
surveys. Of importance to note is that the Women's Federation has gathered important
information on women and various research institutions and universities have also
undertaken data collection and information gathering on the poverty issues.



-170-                                Annex 8
Attachment 1
Pilot Survey Summary
Introduction
1.   The objective of the pilot survey was to provide a clearer understanding of the
poverty profile of the absolute poor households in the project areas. A survey of 600
households in project areas was completed on October 10, 1994. The survey gathered
information at the community, household and individual level. It built upon the State
Statistical Bureau's (SSB) existing rural household survey and included simplified
questions on income, consumption, and expenditure and added entries concerning
education, health and labor mobility.
Household Survey Parameters
2.   Coverage and Scope. Data was collected on household consumption
expenditure, income, socio-economic and demographic characteristics. To capture
variations among the absolute poor, a three-stage sampling method was used. Within
each province, two relatively well-off and two worse-off project counties were
identified. Then the two poorest villages in the poorest township of the selected
county were selected. Within each of those villages, 25 of the poorest households
were enumerated. Survey location and coverage is shown in Table 1.
Table 1: Survey Areas
Province  County      No of     No. of    Total HH
Vill.     HH/vill.  surveyed
Guangxi   Mashan      2         25         50
Donglan    2          25        50
Debao      2          25        50
Duan       2          25        50
Guizhou   Changshun  2          25         50
Banxian    2          25        50
Qinglong   2          25        50
Wangmuo    2          25        50
Yunnan    Lunchuan   2          25         50
Qiaojia    2          25        50
Yanjing    2          25        50
Wuding     2          25        50
3.    Household Definition. A household may consist of a person with separate
accommodations and cooking arrangements or a group of persons who normally live and eat
together and consider the living quarters or space occupied by them as their usual place of
residence. These persons may be family members and others who live and eat with the
household with or without payment for more than six months. Family members are defined
as husband, wife, unmarried sons and daughters, and other direct dependent such as parents,



- 171 -                             Annex 8
Attachment 1
unmarried sisters, brothers, divorced sisters or daughters. A family member who was absent
for more than six months was not included in the household.
4.    Household income refers to gross available income and includes: (a) income from all
household production (agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry, and fishery) valued at market
prices; (b) handicraft or off-farm earnings; (c) social insurance benefits including government
relief transfers and pensions for five guaranteed households; and (d) income from other
sources, including gifts and remittances. All household expenditure includes purchases of all
production inputs, food, clothing, health care, education, and other consumption goods and
services. Payments made by households other than for consumption were considered as other
disbursements. Household expenditure also included income taxes, collective levies, gifts to
others, interest payment, investments and depreciation, and so on.
Overview of Findings on Community and Household Characteristics
Community Findings
5.    All sample villages were located in the mountainous karst or upland areas. An
average village (administrative village) has 352 households and 1,650 individuals. The total
sample population is 2,804, including 1,595 adult laborers (age 16 to 64), 138 elderly (age
65 and above), 745 school age children (age 6 to 15), and 326 young children age less than
6. The frequency distribution of the households by family size is shown in Chart 1. On
average, there are 4.7 persons per household, of which at least two are dependents. Males
and females account for 53 percent and 47 percent of the sample population respectively.
Among the sample population, Han, Miao, and Zhuang account of 22 percent, 35 percent
and 40 percent respectively. The remaining 3 percent consists of Yi, Bai, and other
minorities.
Distriution of Family SIz
40~~~~~~~~
0    2    4    6    S    10
6.    Among these village communities, per capita grain production was 110.5 kg, and per
capita net income (PCNI) was Y152. The variations of the PCNI at village level can be
shown in Chart 2. Note that PCNI for village of Qiaojia in Yunnan was only Y57. The
large variations of PCNI among these villages indicated that the use of local market prices
could be problematic. Since the own-consumption portion of the income was evaluated at



- 172 -                              Annex 8
Attachment 1
local market prices, it is a downward biased estimation of the PCNI in the isolated poor
areas where local market prices are relatively low. Among these villages, 64 percent have
roads, 54 percent have electricity and 30 percent have telephone lines (built by Food for
Work and poverty alleviation programs).
Chart 2
Per Capita Income by Sample Villes (193)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1213 14151C6171 11102 X n    a 
3M~~Y
2W ~~~~~~
| ----Guangxi----||--------1  -Guizhou-     -------I  -Yunnan-------I
HIousehold Findings
7.    Assets. None of those surveyed lived in brick homes (all lived in mud-huts, bamboo-
huts, or the like). Among the 600 households, only two had television sets, 3 percent of the
hlouseholds had radio, 4 percent had bicycles, and 6 percent had sewing machines. An
average household had 4.6 mu of land, of which only 0.33 mu was irrigated. Seventy-eight
percent of the land was planted with food crops. Fifty-four percent of the households could
not afford cattle-raising. On average, these households raise one goat, two pigs, and 4 to 5
chickens.
8.    Facilities. About 68 percent of the households did not have a toilet of any kind; 64
percent did not have any electricity; 35 percent drew their drinking water from water ponds,
rivers or lakes, and 30 percent from all sorts of wells. Ninety-seven percent of the
households used wood and grass for fuel.
9.    Income. The main sources of income include: crops (Y578), livestock (Y293),
remittances from migrant laborer(s) (Y104), and others (Y150). After deducting all the
expenses accordingly, the net household annual income was Y710, which made average
per capita annual net income (PCNI)less than Y152.



- 173 -                                 Annex 8
Attachment1
10.   Rural Credit. The average household borrowed Y307 annually, Y256 in cash, and
the rest in kind. Forty-eight percent of Y307 was borrowed from friends and relatives, 22
percent from RCC, and 8 percent from informal rural credit systems. About 25 percent of
the households did not borrow money during the past year; 50 percent borrowed 1-2 times;
and the rest borrowed at least 3 times. Fifty percent borrowed on one year term. About 50
percent paid back in cash, and 21 percent defaulted (it seemed RCC never got their loans
repaid). Average cash and grain saving per household were about Y35 and 178 kg
respectively.
11.   Social Security. Eighty percent of the "Five Guaranteed Households" and childless
elderly persons did not receive care from any one, and 10 percent received aid from the
government.1/ On average, sample households received Y10 and 13 kg relieve grain from
the government.
12.   Agriculture Extension and Training. Ninety-eight percent of the households had
never received any extension services or training. Forty-one percent would like to receive
training on cropping technologies, and 31 percent on tree crop technologies.
Overview of Findings on Individual Characteristics
Education
13.   Adult Literacy. For sample adults (age 16 and above), the illiteracy rate is 56
percent. Seventy-five percent of the adult population has less than six years of primary
school education. Only 1.5 percent obtained post-secondary education. On average, Bai and
Miao minorities have the least education attainment - less than 3 years of primary education.
14.   School Age Children. Among the 745 school age children, the male-female ratio is
0.51/0.49. During the past six months, the average enrollment rate was 55 percent, with
64.6 percent among boys, and 45 percent among girls. About 39 percent of the cohort have
never enrolled, and 60 percent of them are girls. Among children aged 10 to 15, only 15
percent of girls and 27 percent of boys received more than 4 years of basic education.
Among children aged 13 to 15, 20 percent of the boys and 5 percent of the girls graduated
from primary school. For those who did not enroll or dropped out, poverty was the main
(78 percent) cause.
I/    'Five-Guarantee" households are households which in principlo are guaranteed food, clothing,
housing, medical care and burial by collective funds. However, in most of the poor areas, communities
rarely have adequate funds for these households. Therefore, these household have relied on state relief
grains or funds.



- 174 -                              Annex 8
Attachment 1
Health
15.   Poverty and Health. Ninety percent of the population cannot afford medical fees;
21 percent of the population would not go to a doctor when they are ill mainly (97 percent)
because they do not have money. About 54 percent of those who would seek treatment when
ill have to go to township clinics that are located on average more than 4 km away, due to
the lack of facilities at village level.
16.   Women of Reproductive Age. The frequency of women in reproductive age by
number of living children they have can be shown in Table 2. About 85 percent and 48
percent of the womnen have given birth to at least two and three children, respectively. The
under-five mortality rate is 6.4 percent. About 93 percent of those died were less than 12
months old. At least 90 percent of the women gave birth to their youngest child at home,
and less than 3 percent went to either village or township clinics. About 84 percent of the
women delivered babies either by themselves or with the help of family members. Ten
percent were helped by neighbors or mid-wives, and less than 5 percent received professional
help.
Table 2
Freq. of Reproductive Women
By No. of Children Born &
No. of child. Frequency    %    Cum.       Cum. %
0          8        2.3        8        2.3
1         76       22.2       84        24.6
2         94        27.5      178       52.0
3         86        25.1      264       77.2
4         51        14.9      315       92.1
5          17        5        332       97.1
6          5        1.5       337       98.5
7          5        1.5       342       100.0
17.   Children Under Five. The frequency distribution of average height and weight by
sex for children unlder five is shown in Table 2. The average weight and height in each age
cohort are between -2SD and -3SD, compared to the standards for height and weight
recommended by WHO for each age group. The height measurement of children under five
is not very accurate due to the difficulties of getting the measurement board up the hill in
most villages.
Labor
18.   Number of Migrants. During the past year, about 12 percent of adults held jobs
outside the community (migrant laborers) for various lengths of time. Fifty-five percent of



- 175 -                              Annex 8
Attachment 1
migrant laborers worked outside the community between 1 to 4 months; 12 percent between
5-6 months; and 33 percent resided outside the community for more than 6 months (in fact,
about 21 percent stayed outside at least one year) - an indication of finding more stable jobs
among these people. Chart 3 shows that the number of migrants per household is positively
related to the family size. As the family size increases, more adults would leave home.
19.   Migrant Characteristics. On average, migrant laborers had higher educational
attainment. At least 51 percent were primary school graduates and 22 percent completed 3-4
grades of primary education. About 85 percent of the migrant laborers are male.
20.   Employment and Remittances. Among those migrant laborers, 87 percent went
beyond county boundaries; 77 percent still engaged in agricultural activities, and slightly
more than 5 percent worked in construction activities. Among all the migrant laborers, 61
percent found jobs by themselves, and 20 percent through networks of friends and relatives.
More than 62 percent of migranit laborers sent remittance home, varying from once a year to
once a month. The average remittance sent home was about Y104. About 47 percent sent
less than YIOO home, 22 percent sent between Y100-200, 12 percent between Y200-300, and
the rest (19 percent) sent more than Y300 home.
Chart 2
Labor Mobility vs Family Size
2   o                                                 oSLM
15                                                  x L
30                    g                               XLM
E 0 
t6 i0 -                                                         x SL
0        2        4        6        8        10
Family St=
21.   Desire for Labor Mobility. Fifty-three percent of the adults surveyed were willing
to participate in labor mobility. Among these, the asking wage ranges from below Y100 (47
percent), Y 100-200 (22 percent), Y200-300 (12 percent), and above 300 (19 percent).



Chisa. Southwest Poverty Reducto Project
Detaied Project Cost by Province and Compont (Yuan)
Anne 9 - Table 1: Total Project Cod
G                           GCdhs                       Ymm                          Cmtra                          TOW
1.   Edaciba                                     78,396.448                  74,103,642                  64.391.120                                              216,3,210
2    H1dt                                        60,773.103                  56,95t662                    60,550,313                                              17t2g23
3.   Labor M ility                               95.591.316                  91,145,021                   964912,764                 110,718,212                 394.367,883
4.   1nf _tuire                                  91.911,546                 122,129,937                  11,619,352                                             339.660,485
5.   LdmdFUmrDevelqopet                         350,059,273                 316,530Q391                  307,326,33                                              973.916,537
6.   TVEs                                       170,079,734                 141,137,042                  1583062,306                                             469,329,032                        '
7.   1m1ibn  Buildr                              I636.410                     9.855,044                    9,555.044                  22736,010                   54.33250S
S.   PrXctadPomwtyMmitmug                        16,493.464                  17,433,036                   14,065,220                                              47,991,770
Be  Cos-IDA:                          332947,563                  329,342,374                 329.40.498                   133,504,2                  2,675,235,157
Toal Co. - IDA                      1,143,400.000                1.07g,800,000               1.073,000,0                   174,000.000                3.4S0,O00.0o0
9.   Guzma Mkmiaps Employ-a
BEm Cal.RR:                           5S6,167.100
Tobl Cot IB-RD:                       751,363,640
TOW Bu Cd                                     1.469.114a                    829J74                      529AA9BMW=3261A47
Thllad.d Ca d-                                IJ99.763U LM1M                                          107i.,                                 m17               421



China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Anncx 9 -Table 2: Education Component
*  upi                                Gul                  ---                Yumm                                  Projew Toal
UNIT    QUANTITY          RATE        AMOUNT QUANTrrY             RATE       AMOUNT QUANI'TY              RATE        AMOUNT QUANTrIY             RATE         AMOUNT
1.  Buidizw                                                                  38 o                                    36.CO                                   3184                                    107374.ts
Bric                        am2            87,000        220       19.40.000       25.00o        220       15,700,000     74,446         250       20,844,380    246.446         238         58,634.s80
Concted brkk                 m2            65,500         300      19.650,000      60,C00        300       13,OOOO         34,500        320       11,040.00D    160.000         304         48.690,000
2    Tucticn Anioe "d
Nutctio     eSqtn                                                       24.0Stql                                18336.3am                               19.9m.L .                                61.31 23
Tution a    biwn             p'san        ISO.OCO        72.0      12Z960.000     IS8,ODO         70       12,600.000     130,000         70       12,600.000    540.000          71         3t,160,DO
N utn      aipk   m ptn mb                 95.oco         110      10,450,000      50.000         100       5.000,00o     63,0O0         100       64300,000     203,000         l05         21,750,000
Salaies fr new tadbas        p srm           700         960          672,000        767         960          736,320                                              1,467         960          1,403,320
3    Teadhi  Traing                                                           4,361.C                                 4510iC 3a02800                                                                    I.s
Full4ine qa mib              p'scn           353        2.400         t59.200       1.000       2,400       2,400,0C0        323        2,400        775.200       1,681        2,400        4.034.400
Prt-tumeq mlficdiai          p'am           1,09t       1.00       1,976.400        757        1.00       1,362.600        654        1,t00       1,177,200      2.509        1.300        4,516.200
SubectqsaIificuio pnsm                      1,723        400          6t9.200       1,333        400          533,200     2025          400         SIO0.00       5,031         400         2,032,400
Multwaleteadai,e                            1.553         200         311,60D        625         200          125,000        512         300          153,600      2,695         219           590.200
BiIi,wu  mcbiai             pP%m            2,626         20          525s,200       448         200           89.600        376         300          112,300      3,450         211           727,600
4.   Equipment                                                                8.f75A                                12s28.1                                  8-135.-.S 295391
Tabnedduir                   ac            54.601          30       4,363,050     s3636           s0        6.614,.10     60,240          SO        4.319.200    197,527          SO         15,3w160
TeadSi qwpunset                              530        4,000       2,122,000        625        4.0C0       2.500.000        457       4.000        1,323,OO       1.612       4,0O0         6,448,000
Book                         no           520.575          4        2,082.300     419,641          4        1,678,564     304,636          4        1,218,544   1,244,852          4         4,979.403
Drnitary fcility             lot            2,034         150         305.100      11,565         150       1,734,750       1.500        ISO         270.000      15,099         153         2,309,350
5.   Mwtqmei TmunAg                                                            so3.                                     5833600                               12222
Sdool in darnirurtmh-        p'son           753         600          451.800        366         600          219,600       1,460        600         876,000       2,579         600          1,547.400
Burau mmampme  uinmg         p'sV             60        1,200          72O00          70        1,200          U4,000         55        1,200         66.000         135        1,200          222.000
Stud Tow                                       7       40,000         230,D00          7       40,000        280.0h 0          7      40,0D0         280,000          21      40,0DO           UO00
6    Project Mqmnt                                                            1483,568                                1445128                                 122h6                                    4,15532
C-oqd- -d pi                sad                13      25.000         325,000         14       25.000         350.000         1        25,000        275,000          33       25.000          95,ooo
Mumeaa   Fee (1.5%)          no                                     1.158,563                               1.095,128                                951.696                                 3.205.392
Totl                                                                   783396448                                74.103.i2                              64Z39J.20                                216f.216
to



China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Table 3: Health Component
OUS2W                                Gaizhoz 0- ----  Y _--                                                       Prcject ToWal
UNIT    QUANITIY         RATE        AMOUNT QUANTITY             RATE       AMOUNT QUANTITY             RATE        AMOUNT QUANTITY            RATE          AMOUNT
1    Bdd                                                                   14.742.                                13,641-2                               132750.                                  42.133.
Vie heajib dc (50 m2)       m2           24,700         2S0       6,916,000      35.685        250       8,921,250      25,6S0        280        7,190,400     86,065         268        23,027,650
Tow_ip bolI (200 m2)         m2           18.200        430       7.826,000      11,800        400       4,720.000      16,400         400       6,560,000     46,400         412        19,106.000
2.  E q_ml                                                                  6_. S44                                                                       5.                                      20323._
aio eqiu_At                  mm             494       4,000       1.976,000        793        4,000      3.172,00O         440       4,000       1,760,000       1,727      4,000         6,901,000
HOW"  OV*mmd                 Id              91      32,000       2,912,000         117      32,000      3,744,000          82      3,000        2,624,000        290      32,000         9,280.000
X-uy eqi'I                    o              24       18,000        432000          26       18.000        468,000          20     1I.000         360,000          70       18.000        1,260,000
Cca ftmw  a  - v             cy              12      25.000         300,000          13      25,000        325,000          10      25,000         250,000         35      25,000           375,000
W         mw mmdm" .qonm     Oa              12      30,000         360,000          13      30,000        390,000          t0      30.000        300,000          35      30.000         1.050.000
Camp_lir -dp-n               Ed              13      25,000         325,000          14      25,000        350,000          11      25,000        275,000          38      25,000           950,000
3.  O     ° Mih                                                             L2196"                                 11 U28278                                                                       4-116
Vy _A                        do"        200.0S0           5       I.OO.OO     300,000          5        1,500.0S0    200,000           5       1,000,000    700,000           5         3,500,000
bh        8rwgwtrnewn nat   p,io        S78,575        0.25         219,644     826,744        0.25        206,686   1,131,144        0.25        232786   2,36,463          0.25           709,116
3   Vd.d                                                                    L    000                               1.755                                                                           4,35,0
M rycde                      no              91       15,000      1,365,000         117      15,000       1,755,000         32      15,000       1,230,000        290      15,000         4.350,000             H
-S
4.  Mdid A_ce                                                             26.671.                                 I.672.X4                               2L9K7927 74.331214                                               X
H    aid ssl                p.a.           1,482      6,000       3.89,000        1,248       5,000      6.240.000       1,371       5,000       6.355,000      4,101       5,361        21,937.000
HIa   hnd                   p.o         378,575         18.0     15,314,350     S26,744          13      10,747,672   1,131,144         IS      20.360,592   2,S36,463         17        46,922614
Smimy  _a                    V p.c          273       7,200       1,965,600        234        7,200      1,6U,S00          246       7,200       1.771,200        753       7,200         5,421,600
5.Die. pie    Md Co.000i Ll1137.                                                                                                                          875                                    3.06
Diem  Mr_    Ame yt          dy              12      50,000         600,000          13      50,000        650,000          10      50,000        500.000          35      50.000         1.750,000
Sinpvabm sxvae   d ty                        12      37,500         450.0S0          13      37,500        487,500          10      37,500        375,000          35      37,500         1,312,500
6.  M     imi mid did HMhh                                                 2        640.                          2                                      2.6S.O0                                  7- u40
MCI cm  mzpnent              cme         100,000         25       2,500,000     100,000         25       2,500.0OO     100,000          25       2,500,000    300,000          25         7,500,000
Ni*mo. Mx_ce                 no              70       2,000         140,000          50       2,000        100,000          S0       2ooo          100,000        170       2,000           340,000
7.  HaftWaW    Tom                                                          4-3                                    6.513.000                              3972.00                                 14.814.000
He.k h id I  i              pOons           494       3,600       1,778,400        793        3,600      2,354,800        457        3,600       1,645,200      1,744       3,600         6,278,400
Bird_snd _t    g            p'on            968        1,200      1,135,600       1,586       1,200       1,903,200       914        1,200       1,096,800      3,483       1,200         4,185,600
H1-   a     b wpS oai%.                     455       3,000       1,365,000        585        3,000       1.755.0S0       410        3,000       1,230,000      1,450       3,000         4,350,000
S.  C rmd 11v M         _AMn                                                L000                                   IJSOO                                    840.00294.0
Proc puNam   u              plum             72       4,000         283000          78        4,000        312,000         60        4,000        240,000         210       4,000          340,00
Mm.k                        no               12      60,000         720,000          13     60.000         780.000         10       60,000        600,000          35      60,000         2,100.000
9.  PRt.        Lev M       _numag                                           550.000                                5.0                                     550.                                   L65Q000
TecIeomA_ce                                   6      41,000         246,000          6       41,000        246,000           6      41,000        246,000          13      41,0S0          738,000
Ov0m                    p'-              2       37,000        174,000           2      37,000        174,000           2      87.000         174,000          6      87,000           522,000
bm~Wc          p    '                   4       14.000         72,000           4      1I.000         72,00O           4      18,000          72,000         12       18,000          216,000
Sttody Tom                  no                7      40,000         220,000          7       40,000        280,000          7       40,000        280,000          21      40,000          840,000              X
Sbff Ia                      p'on             6       4,000          24,000          6        4,000         24,000          6        4,000         24,000          18       4,000           72,000
10. Min_nmt fe (1.5%)                 Sm                                     898.209                                841.754                                894.                                    2,634,802
TOal                                                                  6.778JU3                               5I5L6a                                 611.55tll                                17W3f



tr Soudiwen Povety Re&iction Pmjec
Detihd Pc;ect Omn Corts by Povice md C wmi
Ases 9 - Tebl 4: laber MsiHty Cmpet
Wu  --                            mid  ou-                        Ylm      - --      -            Center --- - --    ----------P-
UNIT       Qnt        Rsa          Aimt    Q          R            Amt   Qi_.          RAW          Anm     QuiL       RsLe          Amt    Quant-      Rae            Amt
I   Building                                                      t. O.O                          7tQ00                                                            ,2.500C                          27.100.
CuazuWruvwice               M2    X      o.0     2.00      4,00.0      10       2.000  ,600.000        2,000     2.O0O    4,00OOQ0      L2L50     L        2.5000,0O    6,550     ZOQ°      13,31QO,000
COtmy                       m2         6,000       3O      4,30,.000    6.500      O       5.200,Q00    5.00        QO      4.0O0,0DO                                   17,500      30O      14,C000,0O
2   Vdihcfl -a                                                                                     I 1                             I-gm                              400                              3.900.0
Ptck.q,                     no            12   IOD,OQO     1,20.000       13  IOQ.ODO      1.300O,O        10  I0000O      l,OQO.000       4   100.000      400,000        39   100,000      3,900.000
3   Eqp3 m  Fwaimh                                                1.477.C                         1517.                            13                                252.2,C                          4.644.100
Compm SWdp4mer              no            14   25.00       350,0D0       I5    25.000       375,000       12    25.QC      300.OD0        5    25,000       125,Q00       46    25,000      1.150,000
Phestxp_                    no                                                                                                              3    25,000        75,000        3    25,000         75,00Q
Fi nduiu                    no                                                                                                              3     5,000        1 3.000       3     5.0D0         15,000
Tdqh-                       no           I    3,0Q0         45.000       16    3.000         4J,000       14    3.00         42.000        4     3,000        I2X000       49     3,00o        147.0QO
Tdkum      videopplmyw      se            14    6.0 0        84,00        15   64000         90.DD0        II   640D0         66600D        1    6,000         6,000        41    6,000         246,O0
SC-i.d                      no            27      600        16.200       29       000        17.400       23      600        133300                                        79      600          47,400
Filingabind                 no            41      300        12.30D       44       30         13.2D0       35      300        10.500       14       600        1.4C0       134      331          44,400
Offiable wndd.d             so            66      400        264400       71       400        28,400       60      400        24.000         1      600        10.300      215      417          *9.600
TIe.IUW     WUis_ k dd                 1.325       100      132.50      .32         0         3250      125        100       13X500                                      5.475       100        547,5DO
D    tble.dckbd             on         1.112      2C0       222.400     1.112      200      222.400     1.112      2D0       222X400                                     3.336      200         667.200
M?_m md work ddhls          en         1.325      200       365.000     1.325      200      363.0D0     1.325      200       365.000                                     5.475      200       1,095.000
La Vem 1o2'                                       60       109.500     1.125       60       109,500    1325       60       109,500                                     5.475       60         32.5001
Themewipmit                 no         1.325       20        3.500      1,125       20        36.500    1,325       20        34500                                      5.475       20         109500
Ki*dmen   i                 sem           14     20C0        28.000       is    2.00          30.000       12     2000        24,000                                        41     2.000         *2,000            1-
4   T      mi Pe           (umlg Fed)                            79n    M0 1279J1                                                                                103.4990 342*555
4.1  NTRAL                                                                                                                                                                                     1432 713 20 339 1 1  103 499  10U175.433
T,w  Fe.                    peei      33,240        50     1.66ZOD0    37,911       SO     1.39.050    23.M         50      1,11650                                     94.954       50       4.747.700
T       _UwuWI               e.       33,240      250      8.310.000    3791       250     9.49S.250    23,733     250     5,933.250                                    94.954      250      23.733,500
Aodimeo  im                 peon      33.240      120      3.913.300   3791        120     4.557,720    23733      120     2.347.960                                    94.954      120      11,394,410
H31  dw*.q  he              Pem       33.240       S0      1,66OD0    37,911       50     1.9,.050    23.733       50      1,136,650                                   94,954       50       4.747.700
Sirnd g fe                  p%n       33,240      200     6.643.000    37.911     200      7.596.200   23.733      200     4,746600                                     94,954      200      I3990300
Ruim fee                    p1        33.240       137  4,553,30        7.l        137     5.203,397    237m       137     3.251,421    94.954       SO     7.596.320   139.908     109      20,605.013
_rum t.                     We.,      33.240       50      1.662000    37.93        so     1,W9,.050    23,m        S0      1.I36,650    94.954      50     4.747,7O   319,903       S0       9,495.400
bAuM                         fu                                                                                                         94.954      100     9.49S.400    94,954     300       9.495.400
Lgcir      deponsit         PaP                                                                                                        94.954       200   1,990.300    94.954      200      I3.990.0
Selki ewiglce              if                                                                                                          94.954       300    28.436,200    94.954     300      23.486,2D0
h_pdst ,                    p..'                                                                                                       94,954       200    139SO.,00   94.954      200     1,990.,00
Re6ndW cmtnldm              P'llon                                                                                                     94.954       160    15,192.640    94.954     160      15,192,640
4.2 PROVINCIAL                                              43-70Q0                          36                              43 7                                                              124-2C00
Tr_mwig Fee                 po        33.O0        40      I 520.00O   32000        40     1.230.000    33.000      40      1.520.000                                  103.0D0       40       4,320,000
T     _tupo                 plo       38.O        70     Z660.0O0   32100D         70     Z240.000    3.00         7D0    X.660,0co                                    0,000        70       7.560.000
Accammd         A           peo       3.00          30     3.04D.ODD   32.000       so     2560.O0     33.00        30     3.040.000                                   103.000       so  1 ,640,0D0
Heelh die-W fee             fion      32.000       50      1.900,OO    32.O0        50     1.600.00    38.0M        50      3.90.O0O                                   108,OC        50       5.400.00D
Setkemee A                  p%o       38,00        130     4.940.OD0    32OO0      130     4.1S6000    32.00       130     4.s400.c                                    103.00       130      14,040.0C0
R fzuio ee                  Va.       38.000       iw      3.300000    32o00       10      3,20o.000    3.00       300     3.,o00000                                   10.000        O 100   103.00,DO
Muweni fee                  Ps.       3S,OC0       40      1,520,000    3XOOD       40     1,230.000    31,000      40      1.520.000                                  103,OO       40       4,320.000
b_M                         pu        33.000        so     3.040.000   32.00        ID     X560.0o0    32.00        ID     3.040o00o                                   108,00       t0       5,640.000
Labor e     deihuet doponit  Vs'      33.000       300     3.300.000    32.e0      30      3.200O.     38.o0       10      3.300.000                                  10.O00      l30       30,SO3,00 0
Selastus ,ilsbwe             e        3S,OCO        5      5.70.o000    3XooD      350     4.300.0oD    31.000     ISO      5,700.OD0                                  103.0O0      150      16.20CO,OC
lAtaepriw        ebue       ps        33.000       2C0     7.6l00.000    3.        200     6.400,00    3tODD       200      7.600,0G                                   30.000       200      21,600,000            X
Remy f,mda ctibutin  pio              33000        110     4.110,0C0    32oo.      110     3,520.000    30,00     110     4,1500,00                                   1o0.O0O      110      I1.330.000            '



Chima: Southwest Piarty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Bae Costs by Province and Component
Annex 9 - Table 4: Labor Mobility Component
-----.----------- Guangxi ----------------- -------------------- uizhou  -------- Yunn         ------------------Center ------------------ --------------- Project Total -------------
UNIT       Quant      Rate         Amt.   Quant       Rate         Amt.   Quant.      Rate         Amnt    Quant      Rate         Amt    Quant       Rate           Amt
43 COUNTY                                                   7,686.910                       7050.41                         I.652.8                                                           33.390.120
Training Fee               p'son      11,473       30      344,190    10,523       30      315,690    27,840       30      *35,200                                    49.836       30       1,495,080
Transportation             p'son      11.473       20      229,460    10,523       20      210,460    27,840       20      556,800                                    49,836       20        996.720
Accommodations fee         p'son      11,473       60      688,380    10.523       60      631,380    27,840       60     1,670,400                                   49,836       60       2,990,160
Health check-up fee        p'son      11,473       20      229,460    10,523       20      210,460    27,840       20      556,800                                    49.836       20        996,720
Settlementfee              p'son      11.473       60      688.380    10,523       60      631,380    27,840       60     1,670,400                                   49,836       60       2,990,160
Registration fee           p'son      11,473       30      344,190    10,523       30      315,690    27,840       30      335,200                                    49,836       30       1,495,080
Management fee             p'son      11,473       20      229,460    10,523       20      210,460    27,840       20      556,800                                    49,836       20        996,720
Insurance                  p'son      11,473       80      917,840    10,523       80      S41,840    27,840       so    2,227.200                                    49.836       80       3,986,880
Labor ontract deposit      p'son      11,473       50      573,650    10,523       50      526.,150    27,840      50    1,392,000                                    49,836       50       2,491,800
Settling-in allowamnce     p'son      11,473       90     1,032,570    10,523      90      947,070    27,840       90    2X505,600                                    49,836       90       4,485,240
Enterprsetrainingreimburse    p'son   11,473      150     1,720,950    10,523     150    1,578,450    27,840      150    4,176,000                                    49,836      ISO       7,475,400
Reserv fund contribution   p'son      11,473       60      688,380    10,523       60      631,380    27,840       60     1,670,400                                   49,836       60       2,990,160
5.  TrainingandManagement                                        2.827.808                       27W.023                         239375                          2,429,922                        10.430.128                  _
Staff training             sum                             300,000                         300,000                         30D.000                         300,000                          1,200,000                 00
Seminam and exchanges      sum                             300,000                         300,000                         300,000                         400.000                          1.300.000                 0
Technical Assistance       sum                             500,000                         500,000                         4C0,000                         400,000                          1,800,000
Monitonng                  sum                             500,00                         500,0C0                         400,000                                                         13400,000
Fulian monitoring          sum                             400,0D0                         40D,000                         300,000                         200,000                          1,300,000
Evaluation                 sum                             4000D0                         400,000                         300,000                         500,000                          1,600,000
Independent management audit  sum                          427,808                         380,023                         392,375                          129,922                         1,330,128
Project promotion materials    sum                                                                                                                         500,000                           500,000
6.  Administrative fee (I 5%)                                     1,412,61i8                      111                             I3-2                            1,636,230                        58289097
Total                                                       95,591.S86                      9114S021                         96,912,64                      110.718212                     394.367.883
CD



China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 9 - Table 5: Rural Infrastructure Component
Ouu'ipi                                Guii~'                                   Y-MM                                   Projeet Total
UNIT  QUANTITY    RATE    AMOUNT QUANTITY    RATE    AMOUNT QUANTITY    RATE    AMOUNT QUANTITY    RATE                                                            AMOUNT
1   RaMl E riciy                                             40      170.312       6tlS495           129     206.727       26.667.             26     277,002        720Z053           195     208,627         4Q682-2
35 kV tumiamline                  km               40       67.215       268t.590          129       79.975       10I316.775         26       57,735        1,512X657        195       63,934         14.518.022
10kVdinbWline                     km               43       35,785       1.520.855         438       241t9       11.461,354         131       37,957       4,962,878         676       26.906        17.945,067
20W kW hy          stbo     iix   no                                                         1   2.565.600        2.565,600                                                    1   2.565,600          2.565,600
2400 kW *&power  mio              no                                                         I   2.324.000        2.324.000                                                    1   2.324,000          2,324,000
1600kVA/20WkVA/3150kVAI           no                2    1.301,525       Z603.050                                                     1      726.51S         726,518           5    1,250.169         3.32956t
2.  Rivl Road                               km              561       61,911      34731Lt9           437       74,329      32,4L8173          460      90,287       4153S20         1.533      75,354        lW.745.
3.  RMl Wgw Sy wly                          p'oo        216.665         241       521171Q        290,450         160       46A4 880       1558,40         163       25.477.S16     662,955         187        11A1
4.  WwCawvuy                                                                       L19                                     14-7227218                               4L654.468                                  5566
J1w6a                             ha               s        14865         1,189.200       3,612       3,453      12.490,296       5,616        4,123      23.154,768      11,439        4.019        316 4            I
FlodmiftFM                        ha                                                       *ft        2.514       2,232.432                                                  407        6.624         732fl z
F_o        In*i on sgm                                                                                                             1,254      15,550       19,499.700       1,254      15.550        19l499 0F
5. -FdBV7S 74                                                                                                                                                                                                       4 4
1zquvwd som                       no             2.380        20D          476.000                                                                                         2,380         200            47L0
Bioa d*0-                         no               41          722        2.068.248                                                                                        2,t41         728          L0L248
6.  Ad iiv Fee                              sum                                    1461107 I.tO4t77                                                                      995                                    5019 619
T^l                                                      ^~~~~~            ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~911J46  122.129-W            II9A6193                                     6    S"i
_      _          _                                                _                   _



China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component (Yuan)
Annex 9 - Table 6: Land and Farmer Development Component
-------Guangxi--                           ----------------------- --------------------- Yunn  ---------------------- ----------------- Project Total -------------------
UNIT QUANTITY         RATE       AMOUNT  QUANTITY           RATE       AMOUNT  QUANTTY            RATE       AMOUNT  QUANITTY           RATE         AMOUNT
1   FoDdCropsandFodderDevelopment                                              31,102.625                            26.458.125                            49.138.665                             106,699,415
Uplandterracing                         ha        711       4,875      3,466,125      1,317       4,875      6,420,375      2,167       6,365     13,792,955      4,195       5,645       23,679,455
Other upland development                ha      7,580       2,025     15,349,500      2,839       2,025      5,748,975       1,850      2,025      3,746,250      12,269      2,025       24,844,725
Small irrigation cistern                no                                                                                  6,106        510       3,114,060      6,106        510         3,114,060
Paddy land development                  ha        191       3,000        573,000                                                                                    191       3,000          573,000
Corn/potato yield improvement           ha      7,580       1,000      7,580,000     12,981       1,000     12,981,000     23,065       1,000     23,065,000     43,626       1,000       43,626,000
Fodder/grain inter-ropping              ha      5,200        795       4,134,000      1,645        795        1,307,775      1,040       795         826,800      7,885        795         6,268,575
Pasture development                     ha                                                                                  2,871       1,600      4,593,600      2,871       1,600        4,593,600
2.  Tree Crop Development                                                     227.897.985                            152.129225                            145.958.037                            525.985.247
Tea/Kudingtea                           ha      1,352      15,543     21,014,136      1,254      15,543     19,490,922                                            2,606      15,543       40,505,058
Mulberry                                ha      2,252      15,100     34,005,200       1,129     15.100     17,047,900       1,329     15,100     20,067,900      4,710      15,100       71,121,000
Orange/Pomelo                           ha        348      16,593      5,774,364        526      16,593      8,727,918                                              874      16,593       14,502,282
Lonan/Litchee                           ha      2,115      20,571     43,507,665                                                                                  2,115      20,571       43,507,665
Persimmon/Apple/Hawthorn/. . a/         ha      4,192      10,786     45,214,912      1,200      10,786      12,943,200       945      10,786     10,192,770      6,337      10,786       68,350,882
Chestnut/Walnut/Gingko/Mountain grapes  ha      2,342       8,779     20,560,418      4,100       8,779     35,993,900      8,572       9,879     84,682,788     15,014       9,407      141,237,106
Eucommia/Star anise/. b/                ha      5,491       6,330     34,758,030      6,004       6,330     38,005,320       1,354      6,330      8,568,459     12,849       6.330       81,331,809
Bamboo                                  ha      2,910       4,095     11,916,450        600       4,095      2,457,000        600       4,095      2,457,000      4,110       4,095       16,830,450
Sichuanpepper/Gallnut/Lacquer/.  c/                                                     700       4,890      3,423,000      2,244       4,890     10,973,160      2,944       4,890       14,396,160
Timber forest/Tung/Ficus/. d/           ha      3,065       2,330      7,141,450      4,600       2,330     10,718,000      3,537       2,330      8,241,210     11,202       2,330       26,100,660
Forestregeneron                         ha      4,904        465       2,280,360      3,291        465       1,530,315                                            8,195        465         3,810,675
Foddertree intercropping                ha      2,300        750       1,725,000      2,389        750       1,791,750       1,033       750         774,750      5,722        750         4,291,500
3.  Cash Crop Development                                                       9,455,934                             17.722.249                             5,106,013                             32.284.196
Medicinal plants e/                     ha                                            1,881       4,577      8,609,337       1,098      4,577      5,025,546      2,979       4,577       13,634,883
Sugrcne                                 ha      1,617       3,400      5,497,800        400       3,400      1,360,000                                            2,017       3,400        6,857,800
Vegetables                              ha        291       5,300      1,542,300        276       5,300      1,462,800                                              567       5,300        3,005,100            1
Special mushroom                        ha                                               19      82,284      1,563,396                                               19                    1,563,396           l.
flowers                                 ha         47      35,200      1,654,400                                                                                     47                                        00
Beass/Other cmps f/                     ha        634       1,201        761,434      3,936       1,201      4,726,716         67       1,201         80,467      4,637       1,201        5,568,617
4   Livestock Development                                                      33.374.510                             75.680.350                            75.739.961                             184.794.821           1
Cattle                                  no      8,108        830       6,729,640     54,175        830      44,965,250     25,680         830     21,314,400     87,963        830        73,009,290
Pig fattening                           no      8,438        330       2,784,540     50,000        330      16,500,000     26,499        330       8,744,670     84,937        330        28,029,210
Pigbreeding                             no      1,016       1,120      1,137,920        960       1,120      1,075,200      13,267      1,120     14,859,040     15,243       1,120       17,072,160
Goat                                    no     72,828        195      14,201,460     60,000         195     11,700,000     93,489         195     18,230,355    226,317        195        44,131,815
Chicken                                 no    200,000         13       2,600,000     89,900         13       1,168,700    348,292          13      4,527,796    638,192         13         8,296,496
Straw ammoniation                      h/h    39,473         150       5,920,950      1,808        150         271,200     37,698         150      5,654,700     78,979        150        11,846,850
Honeybee                              hive                                                                                 21,900         110      2,409,000     21,900        110         2,409,000
5.  Aquaculture Development                                                    11.492040                              9.517.368                                                                    21 009.408
Pond culture                            ha         70     120,000      8,400,000         34     120,000      4,080,000                                              104    120,000        12,480,000
Cage culture                            no      2,454       1,260      3,092,040        231       1,428        329,868                                            2,685       1,274        3,421,908
Turtle ctlture                         h/h                                            2,500       2,043      5,107,500                                            2,500       2,043        5,107,500
6.  ExtensionandTraining                                                       25.059.421                            24410199                              19443.202                               68.912.822
Demonstration field                    site     1,030        444         457,320        826        444         366,744        457        444         202,908      2,313        444         1,026,972
Trainingoftechnician                  pson      1,545        600         927,000      1,478        600         886,800      1,371        600         822,600      4,394        600         2,636,400
Training of household                 p'son    119,454        60       7,167,240    110,321         60       6,619,260     89,890         60       5,393,400    319,665         60        19,179,900
Extension (trees)                       ha     22,967        168       3,858,456      6,120        168       1,028,160      9,863        168       1,656,984     38,950        168         6,543,600
Extension (food crops, animals)        h/h   251,000           6       1,506,000    197,000          6       1,182,000    221,000          6       1,326,000    669,000          6         4,014,000
Building(township)                     m2       4,550        400       1,820,000      5,850        400       2,340,000      4,100        400       1,640,000     14,500        400         5,800.000
Pick-up                                 no         91     100,000      9,100,000        117    100,000      11,700,000         82    100,000       8,200,000        290    100,000        29,000,000
Equipment (township)                    set        91       2,455        223,405        117       2,455        287,235         82       2,455        201,310        290       2,455         711,950
7.  Support Services                                                            6.503.468                             5.935.061                             7.399,219                              19.837.748            0
Seed production                         ha        818       3,725      3.047,050        587       3,725      2,186,575      1,200       3,725      4,470,000      2,605       3,725        9,703.625           0
Tree nursery                            ha         75      20,600      1,545,000         70      20,600      1,442,000         52      20,600      1,060,900        197      20,600        4,047,900           0
Appliedresearch                       item                             1,911,418                             2,306,486                             1.868,319                               6,086,223           X
8.  ManagementFee(1.5%)                                                         5.173.290                             4.677.815                             4.541.776                              14.392.881
Total                                                                     350.059,273                           316,530,391                           307,326.873                            973.916537
a/ Pemimmon, Apple, Hawthorn, Moue, Myrica Flowering quince, Passion fruit, and other urspecified sub-tropical fruit species.
b/ Star anise, Chinese cinnamon, Eucommia, Cork tree, Cape jasmine, Pomegranate, and other unspecified tree crops.
c/ Sichuan pepper, Gaslnut, White wax insect, Honeysuckle, Lacquer tree.
c/ Amorphophallus, Gastrodia, Atractyiodes. Asabell, Chinese angelica, Bumea, Gynostemma, and other unspecified medicinal plants.
U Beans, Castor, Canna, and Job's tears.



I                 H            -11f[II                 I 
u ~ ~ A ' -   Sw   &   @ -  -8   A   A  'A  'A  I
j wj' 111113E 111"jIj 
| g ! | g t ff~~Ij9 !X_UPs   
6 Y@UlIV~~N                     -  'A8



China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Detailed Project Base Costs by Province and Component
Annex 9 - Table 8: Institution Building Component
GuaiVI                        Guizhou                         Ywman                           Center                       Project Total
UNIT   Qust.           RAe         Amt.    Qat.         Riet       Amt. Quant          Rate        Amt.    Qn          Rue         ArL Qusnt           Rae         Akm
1.  Building                          rn2         1,070     2,000   2140.          1,050     2,000   2.1003         900     2,000   1.S00.0OO     1,000     6,700   6.7           4,020     2,0C0   12.740.
2.  Information Systan                                                200.0                            200                            200.0                          1755,0                          2355
Server                       no                                                                                                             1   200,000      200.000        1   200,000      200.000
PC 4t6                       no              8    20,000     160,000         8    20,000     160,000        8    20,000      160,000        8    20,000      160,000       31    20,000      640,000
Digiter                      no                                                                                                              I    80,000      S0,00         I    80,000       80,000
Plotter                      no                                                                                                              I   100,000     100,000        1   100.00       100,000
Scanner                      no                                                                                                             I    50,000       50,O0        I    50,000       50,0O0
Printer (colouw)             no                                                                                                             1    20,0C0       20,0C0        1    20,000       20,030
Printer                      no              2    15,000      30,000         2    15,000      30,000        2    15.000       30,000        1    15,000       15,000        4    15,000      105,000
Tape drver                   no                                                                                                   0          1    80,000      80,000        1    80,000       20,0O0
Sofeware                     no
Data mragament              no              5     2,000      10,000         5     2,000      10,O0O        5      2,000      10,000         I    80,000      80,000       16      6,875     110,000
GIS software                no                                                                                                   0         3   223,333      250,000        3   283,333      250.000
Image software              no                                                                                                   0         1   120,000      120,000        1   120,000      120,000
3   OtTice Eqiprnent                                                  648.000                          328000                         32S                            1.1340                          2.438
PhoneandE-nwil               no             15     5,000      75,000        11     5,000      55,000       11      5,000      55,000        11     5,300      58,300       48      5,069     243,300
Fax machine                  no              I     8,000       8,000         1     8,000       8.000         1     8,000       8,000         1     8,000       8,000        4      8,000      32,000
Ofice furniture             sum                              200,000                         200.000                         200,000                         350,000                         950,000
Computer roorn rawvation     swn                                                                                                                             560,000                         560,000
Lab testing equipment        set             1   300,000     300,000                              0                               0                               0         1   300,000      300.000        0
Photocopier                  no              2    25,000      50,000         2    25,000      50,000        2    25,00       50,000        2    25,000       50,000        7    25,0C0      200,000
Printing machim              no                                   0                               0                               0         1    78,000       78,000        1    78,000       72,000
Overhead projector           no              I    15,000      15,000         1    15,000      15,000         I    15,000      15,000        2    15.000       30.000        5    15,000       75,0O0
4.  Vehicles                                                          60.                              600                             600.                           600.000 
Jeep/car                     no              I   100,000     100,000         I   100,000     100,000 I           100,000     100,000         I   100,000     100,000        4   100,000      400,000
Mini-bus                     no              1   400,000     400,000         1   400,000     400,000         1   400,000     400,000         1   400,000     400.000        4   400,000    1,600,0CO
Van                         no               I   100,000     100,000         I   100,000     10D,000         I   100,000     100,000        I   100,000      100,000        2   100,000      400,000
5.   Project M ement                                                 5.048A                          4.377044                        4.377044                        7.54h710                       21.349
Local consultat              no             10    36,000     360,000        10    36.000     360.000        10    36,000     360,00        10    36,000     360,000       40    36,000    1,440,000
Staff traning
Domestic                   pgson          100     5,000     500,000        s0     5,000     400.000        s0     5,000     400,000       150     6,000     900,000      410      5,366   2.200,000
Overs                       pson          I5   67,332    1,010,070        10    67,338     673,380        10    67,338     673,320        15    67,338   1.010,070       50    67.338   3,366.900
StudyTours                  m'sion         10    44,292     448,920         7    44,292     314,244         7    44,892     314,244        15    44,92     673.320       39    44,892    1,750,7S8
Tedmical asistance
Donmstic TA                 no            100     8,000    S2O,000        100     8,000     200.000       100     S.000     800,000       100     2,000     200,000      400      S,000   3,200,000
Oveseas TA                  no              5   115,8S4     579,420         5   115,884     579,420         5   115,8S4     579,420        15   115,824    1,738,260      20   115.8S4   3,476,520
Menrtcesng
Questionaire de-in          item            I   100.000     100,000                                                                        2   100,000      200,000        3   100.000      300,000
Data collection            item            12    50.000     600,000        12    50.000     600.000        12    50,000     600,000        12    50,000     600,000       40    50,000   2.400.000
Conferences                 no              6   100,000     600.000         6   100,000     600,000         6   100,000     600,000        6   202,500   1,215.000        20   120,625   3,015,000
Books & joumnals            no          2.000        25      50,000     2.000        25      50,000     2,000        25      50,000     2,000       25       50.000     2,000       25      200,000
6.  Research & System Development                                    4,000,                          225                             2250.0                          50.0                           13.55
Research projees             no             20   200,000   4,000,000        15   150,000   2.250,000        15   150,000   2.250,000        10   250,000   2,500,000       60   183,333   11,000,000
Syptem Dvelopnnt             itan                                                                                                                          2550.000                       2,550,000        X
Total                                                          12636410                         9S55.                           9,.555                         22 710                          54'332.



China: Soutrwes Poverty Reduction Project
Detaled Project Bae Costs by Puvrce and Component
Annei 9 - Table 9 Project and Povrty Moitoadng Component
Gwuajp                      c        Gtnzhou                                Ymuna                                 Project Toal
UNIT    QUANITrY          RATE       AMOUNT QUANTTTY             RATE       AMOUNT  QUANTITY            RATE        AMOUNT QUANTITY            RATE         AMOUNT
Porty M taut                                                      3.0220                                 2.839000                                2839e                                    8.700
1. Eqwpment                                                         457.500                                5680                                   5730                                   1.598.
Computer/pnnter      set               1      25,000         25,0C0          2       25.000         50.000          2       25.000          50.000          5      25.000          125,0C0
PC-Notebook         no               12       22,000        264,000         13       22,000        286.000         13       22,000        286,00          38      22,000          S36.000
Laer pnnta          no                 1      43.500         43,500          2       43,500         87,000           2      43,500         87,000           5      43,500          217.500
Photocopier         no                 I      25.000         25.000          2       25,000         50,000           2      25,000         50,000           5      25,000          125,000
Software            Snn                                      40,000                                 40,000                                 40,000                                  120.000
Meaurng Eqwpmat   set                60        1,000         60,000         55        1,0C0         55.000          60       1,000         60,000         175       1,000          175,000
2. Vehicle                                                          30D.                                   300.                                   3                                        900.
Jeep                no                3      100,000        300,000          3      100.000        300,000          3      100,000        300.000           9       1,000          900,000
3. Poject ManaanrAl         suin                                  2.264.                                  1.971.000                              1966                                    6,201
PrMjeq s McnitongI
1. Bwlding                       m2       3.000         800       2.400.         3,250         800       2.600.          2,500        800       2.000.000       8,750        S00         7.00.0 
2. Office Equipmat                                                  756.0                                  819                                    630.                                   2.205.00
PC 486 and pnnter         ro         12       25,000        300,000         13       25,000        325,000         10       25,000        250,000         35       25,000          875.000
Telephone                 no         12        3,000         36,000         13        3.000         39,000          10       3.000         30,000         35        3,000          105.000
Fax machine               no         12        5.000         60,000         13        5,000         65,000         10        5,000         50,000         35        5,000          175,000
otfice fitumwe            st          12       5.000         60.000         13        5,000         65,000         10        5,000         50,000          35       5,000          175,000
Photocopia                no         12       25,000        300,000         13       25,000        325,000         10       25,000        250,000         35       25,000          S75.000
3. Vehicle
Jeep                      no         24      100.000      2.4000            26      100.000      2.60              20      100,000       2       000.     70      100,000        7.000000
4. Project Managrnn                                               7.915.454                              8575.086                               6.596.220                               23.06
Stafftra=ng
Domestic              p'sn         600       5.000       3,000,000        650       5,000       3.250.0O0        500       5,000       2.500.000       1,750      5,000         8.750,000
Overxa                p'an          12      67,338        S08,056          13      67,338         875.394         10      67.338         673,380         35      67,338         2,356,830
Study totan               no         24      44,892        1,077,408        26      44,892        1,167,192        20       44.892        897.,40         70       44,892        3,142.440
Workslop                  no        144       20,000      2.880,000        156       20,000       3,120.000       120       20,000       2,400,000       420       20,000         8,400,000
Books mad jounls          no       6,000         25         150,000       6,500         25         162,500       5,000         25         125,000      17,500         25           437,500
Total                                                            16.493.464                             17.433.086                             14.065.220                               47.991.770
m



- 186 -                                           Annex  9
Annex 9 - Table 10: Phasing Plan for Tuition Assistance,
Nutrition Supplementation and Medical Assistance (Yuan)
Recurrent Costs          199611996          1997           1999          2000          2001            TOTAL
TUITION ASSISTANCE
Amount                           13,356,000      9,540,000      7,632,000     3,816,000          -           38,160,000
Annual Expenditure as
Share of Total (%)                      35             25             20             10          -                 100
Salaries for New Teachers
Amount                              728,112        520,080        416,064       208,032                       2,080,320
Annual Expenditure as
Share of Total (%)                      35             25             20             10          -                 100
NUTRITION SUPPLEMENTATION
Amount                            7,612,500      5,437,500      4,350,000     2.175,000          -           21,750,000
Annual Expenditure as
Share of Total (%)                      35             25             20            10           -                 100
MEDICAL ASSISTANCE
Villaae Heafth Fund
Amount                           12,797,077      8,531,384      8,531,384     4,265,692    4,265,692         46,922,614
Annual Expenditure as
Share of Total (%)                      28             15             18            18           -                 100
SalaEy assitance
Amount                            8,222,580      8,222,580      5,481,720     2,740,860          -           27,408,600
Annual Expenditure as
Share of Total(%)                       30             30             20            10                             100
TOTAL
Amount                           42,716,269     32,251,544     26,411,168    13,205,584    4,265,692        136,321,534
Annual Expenditure as
Shareof Total(%)                         31             24             19            10            3                100



-187-                       Annex 9
.  1                § XXlQ}
I                         I~~~~~~~A 
JiI''II   C - 
Uz         ci- 



China: Southwest Povety Reduction Project
Guani Municipal Emnploynt Developnent Subomnponent
Detailed Project Base Costs by Municpality and Subproject (Yuan)
Annex 9 - Table 12: Aquacuture Subproject
BEIHAI-    -  FANOCHENG -                                TOTAL
UNIT      Rate      Quantity        Amowut      Quantity        Amount      Quantity           Amount
I   Land AcquisitionJRentd            sum                            23.122,000                   4,074.000                     27.196.000
2.  Civil Works                                                      5L,07,000                   15,530,080                     66,617,080
A   Buildinp                      rn2                            16,044.600                   6,342,856                     22,387,456
B   Infasnctwre                  sun                             10,111,400                   1,916,224                      12,027,624
C   Site preparation             sum                             24,931,000                   7,271,000                     32,202,000
3.  Other Works                   labor/day                           5,476,000                   1.479,000                       6.955.000
4.  EquiymengtVehicla                                                17,413.000                  14.602.000                     32.015.000                              1
A   Vehicle                                              0       14.159000          28        5764000          142          19.923000                              0
Mini-Van (12 seats)      no  100,000           12        1,200,000          4         400,000          16           1,600,000
Jeep                     no  100,000           II        1,100,000          4         400,000          15           1,500,000
Pick-up (1.5 ton)        no  100,000           53        5,300,000          17       1,700,000         70           7,000,000
Truck (1O ton)           no  150,000           27        4,050,000          3         450,000          30           4,500,000
Motorcycle               no   15,000            2          30,000           0              0            2              30,000
Small-tractor            no   15,000            9         135,000           0              0            9             135,000
Woking boat              no                              2,344,000                          0                       2,344.000
Motor boat               no                                    0                     2,814,000                      2,814,000
B.  ProductionEquipmnent         sun                              2.681000                    8,557,000                     11.238000
C.  Office Equipment                                     5S        572000           16         281,000          74             853000
Comsputer/printer        set   25,000           7         175,000           5         125,000          12             300,000
Photocopier              no   25,000            7         175,000           5         125,000          12             300,000
Fax machine              no    6,000            2          12,000           1           6,000           3              18,000
Telephone                no    5,000           42         210,000           5          25,000          47             235,000
D.  Othes                        sun                                 1,000                           0           0               1000
5.  Mateials                                                         75.665.000                  51.156.000                    126.821.000
A   Breeding Stock               sum                             46.360000                   15.860000                      62220000
B.  Cultivating material         sumn                            29305000                    35.296.000                     64,601
6   Pro ez  =aga                      sum                             3.195.000                   1.601.000                      4.79.000 
x
Total                                                           175.98.000                  $84200264.400.080                                                      o



Chim: Sanlhwest Povut R wtiri Project
Gluana Municipal Employmat Developna Subcompct
Delaied Project Base Coss by Mwiicipelitf nd Subproject (Yuui)
Annex 9 - Table 13: Agrkultre SubproJect
BDe"                                      Nanin
Vetable                        T          N1n          -    Foresty                       TOTAL
TJIT       Rae        Quaity             Mt         Quality          Amoa       Qualty           Annt         Qrnty                Amo
Z7W9S               i                 I                                                     7.59I9
2. CivlWork                                                              23A11S1                         7L74AG                       2ANs                            32rNs
A.  Buli                             m2                                U,K000                        1.36.00                            0                         10.264,000
B.   iuac                            -                                        0                      5.200,000                          0                          5,200.000
C.  Sio      agm                                                     12I545.000                     1,174.000                   2640,000                         16.359.000
3.  5&Id                             ItWodd                                5AA4I                         tAN                          77LA                            2 5MIM
4,  Ha mOi                                                                19ILM0."3NJ V                                                                               23   AoI
A. Vaidoe                           s                                  LZ                  U1                           I          1.69   c co    1.
Pickp (1.5 t)              a    10o0o00             5         500.000             1          100,000          I          100.000            7              700oo0
Usseyce 14                        15.0D0            0               0             5           75,000          0               0             5               75,000
SWW&Wor                    no    15.000            50         750,000            11          165.000          0               0            61             915,000
B.  PreAflu Emlqoa                  SUM                               IL1 Q0D.                         I                         3
C.  Oe Bq isut                                               14         1                   I           35t0                        59               2               2350
C     _mp*e*iSs            ad    25.000             2          5000W0             1           25,000          1           25,000            4              I0OOD
Phoocopier                   D   25.000             2          50.000             0               0           0                0            2               50,000
Teepm                      -       5.000           10          5o000              2           10,000          5           25,000           17               35,000
5. Mi                                                                       A5A7                             U20                     13                               3774
A    Fain                                                              5 IU  404020                                             I 5oC 2J055A
Ua                         ba      1.300        3.960        5.148,000        2,100        2730.000       6.600        3,530O,O                         16,453,0DO
Pbse                       tm       450                             0         3,500        1,575,000       3.300       1.485.000                         3.060.000
Po     nal                 to       110                             0           882          97.020       4.000          440QoDo                           537.020
B    B. e     cI akt/Sedfc                                              I200                         2 00                        2.0                               5.915.
Bcmd   Stock               M                                  200.000                             0                           0                            200,000
Seel                      SaU                                 127,000                      2,948,000                   2,640.000                         5.715,000
D.  Others                                                                                          11-474,000                     3000   11.774.
6.  blns     ~                           10111                             IJ13A -JA Sl                         OO                     442.0                           44S0 
TeOW                                                                 6124                           7AI402                      27.                              UA2



China: Southwa Povuty Reduction Project
Gumgpi Muicip&l Emplnoyct Dclopnent Subconpnt
Deuiled Project BEe Coas by Municipality ad Subpoject (Yuan)
Anraa 9 - Table 14: KAterprise DevCIOpmt Zone and Low-Inome Hou_ng SubproJect
Be"il                      Faphenb                     Nanning
- Dvelqpnent Zone -         - Low-income Hoq% -         - Low-income Housing -             TOTAL
UNIT       Rale     Quantity       AAmnnt       Qantity         Amont   Qanity            Amount      Quty               Amont
1 r Ln A-,.4    MxaM                                                 224.59-W                     8.000.000                 7.758.000                     38.258.000
2.  Civil  W61A453.000                                                                           30.711.0OO                S3.118.0"                      145 82.00e
A   Buildt                        m2                             61,0S1.000                  26,201,000                45,553,400                     132,835,400
B.  In futude                    s9=                                     0                    2,946,000                 4,670,600                      7,616,600
C.  Site eppation                gm                                 372,000                   1,564,000                 2,894,000                      4,830,000
3.   _VehigydeLs                                                      1.eeo.ooo                     400AN                     3se.eoe1 .750.000
A.  Vehicle                                                       1.000.                        30000           2         300S                          18600Q
Mini-Van (22 seala)      no  200,000            0               0           1         200.000          1        200,000           2            400.000
Mini-Im                       400.000           2         800,000           0              0          0              0            2            S00.000
Pick-up (1.5 ton)        no   100.000           2         200,000           1         100,000          I        100,000           4            400,000
C.  OfficEquinmat                                         Q              Q            _         100.000         2          50,0            1Q            15Q
CCmnpwute-rinth          se    25,000           0               0           2          50,000          1         25,000           3             75,000
Pbotocopier              no   25,000            0               0           1          25,000          1         25,000           2             50,000
Telepbhe                 no    5,000            0               0           5          25,000         0              0            5             25.000
4.  Fa ject                                                           2,355MO                      I150.000 oo594.000                                       5,322e0o
Total                                                             7_3"8.000                 40.561.000                 62 s20.000                    19e.89.0e
CD
x



- 191 -                                                              Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
Chins: South,wt Povery Reduction Projet
Annex 9 - Table IS: Deailed Procurement and Dlaburwnwat by Expandfures (Yuin)
Total            Total                  Proam     /Dibuuamnmt                          Total Bank
Bane Cot      Projec Coat        ICB    NCB   ISINS        DS  FA/SC    NBF          Dibbunsement
L GOODS                                          96371.622      1.248.932JA7                                                            1.02357M7
1.1  EQUIPMFENT                                 310,9S6,001       403,874,348                                                             312.178055
A.  Education                                 29.539.41S       38.424.                                                                 28-818.5
Table and chair                     15.802160       20,555,385                         75                                    15.416,539
Instructional equipment              6,44S.000        8,387,532                 75                                            6,290,649
Librazy books                        4,979,408        6,477,194                         75                                    4,857.895
Domitoly Facility                    2,309.850        3,004,643                         75                                    2,253,483
B   Health                                    19373Z1          25.200.319                                                              18.0.239
Village clinic equiprnent            6,908,000        8,985,898                         75                                    6,739,424
Hospital equipment                   9,280,000        12,071,386                75                                            9,053,540
X-ray equiprent                      1,260,000         1,639,003                75                                             1,229.252
Cold storage unit                      875,000         1,138,196                75                                              853,647
Water monitoring equipment           1,050,000         1.365,836                75                                             1.024,377
C.  Labour Mobility                            3.257.100        4.236.822                                                               3.177.61
Television+video player                246,000          319,996                 75                                              239,997
Sewing maclne                           47,400           61.658                         75                                       46.243
Olfice furruture                       134,000          174,307                         75                                      130,730
Molibity centre furniture            2,829,700        3,680,862                         75                                    2,760,647
and personal effects
D.  Land and Farmer                           27.728.150       36.068.6                                                                27051498
Corn stw shredder                    3,184,440        4,142,307                         75                                    3,106.730
Pomunga hear                         3,174,560        4,129,455                         75                                     3,097.091
Pesticide sprayer                    5,132,700        6,676,595                         75                                     5.007.446
Miscellaneou tools                  12,697,500        16,516,856                        75                                    12,387.642
Terracing tools                      2,827,000        3,677,350                         75                                     2,758.013
Extnsion & trainig equprnent           711,950          926,102                         75                                      694.576
E.  TVE Procesing Equipment                  1IS4042.033      239401124          10      53               15                          185.5358.71
F.  Institution Building                       3.8780           5.044.487                                                               4390.83
Office furniture                       950,000         1.235,756                        75                                      976,817
Computer room renovation               560,000          728,446                         75                                      546.334
Lab testing equipment                  300,000          390,239                 75                                              292,679
Prnting machine                         78.000          101,462        100                                                      101.462
Overhead projector                      75,000           97,560        100                                                       97.560
Laser printer                          105,000          136,584        100                                                      136,584
Colour printe                           20,000           26,016        100                                                       26,016
Server                                 200.000          260,159        100                                                      260,159
Digitizer                               80,000          104,064        100                                                      104,064
Plotter                                100,000          130,0S0        100                                                      130,080
Scanner                                 50,000           65.040        100                                                       65,040
Tape drivr                              S0.000          104.064        100                                                      104,064
Computer software                    1,080,000         1.404.860       100                                                     1,404.860
Books and journals                     200,000          260,159                         75                                      195,119
G.  Project and Poverty Monitoring             1.96.00          2.5061                                                                  22976
Softwsre                               120,000          156.096        100                                                      156,096
Meaauring equipment                    175,000          227.639                                  75                             170,729
PC Notebook                            836.000         1,087,465       100                                                     1,087,465
La Printer                             217.500          282,923        100                                                      282.923
Office fumiture                        175,000          227,639                         75                                      170.729
Books and journals                     437,500          569,091                                  75                             426,824
Hl   Common Office Equipment                   7.920300        192720                                                                  10,0. 579
Computer nd prnter                   5.165.00         6.7.Q                                                                   670
Education                         950.000         1.235,756       300                                                     1,235,756
Health                            950,000         1.235,756       100                                                     1,235,756
Labour                           1,150,000        1.495,915       100                                                     1,495.915
Institution building              640,000          832,509        100                                                      832.509
Project monitoring               1.000,000        1.300,796       100                                                     1.300,796
GX Meds                           475,000          608,867        100                                                      608,867
Photocopier                          L1675.           2.171.245                                                               2.17124
Labour                             75,000           97,560        100                                                       97,560
Institution building              200.000          260,159        100                                                      260.159
ProjectmAxuwting                 1.000.000        1.300,796       100                                                     1.300,796
GX Medr                           400,000          512,730        100                                                      512,730



- 192 -                                                                Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
Chins: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 9 - Tuble IS: Ddetlled Procurement snd Disburement by Expenditure (Yuan)
Total            Total                    Procurement/Disbumement                          Total flk
Base Cost      Project Cost        ICB    NCB   IS/NS        DS   FA/SC    NBF          Disbursement
Fsx machine                             240.000           311I.S                                                                     311.85
Labour                               15,000           19,512         100                                                         19,512
Intitution building                 32,000            41,625         100                                                         41,625
Project monitorng                   175,000          227,639         100                                                        227,639
GX Meds                              18.000           23,073         100                                                         23,073
Telephone                               S40.30           lOS6.51                                                                     814.885
Labour                              147,000          191,217                           75                                       143,413
Institution building               243,300           316,484                           75                                       237,363
Prject monitorig                    105,000          136,584                           75                                       102,438
GX Meds                            345,000           442,230                           75                                       331,672
GX Me                                          33.287h          42,668.1                                                                   32,001.08I
Planthoob                             33,286,000        42,666,827                 75                                             32,000,120
Office equipment                           1,000             1,282                          75                                           961
1.2  VEHICLES                                       79,917,000       103,606,391                                                               103,606,391
A.  Jeep/pick-up                                50,800.          65.98.312                                                                  65.898312
Labour                                 3,900,000         5,073,104        100                                                      5,073,104
Land & fanner develop.                29,000,000        37,723,081        100                                                     37,723,081
Institution building                    400,000           520,318         100                                                        520,318
Project monitoing                      7.900,000        10,276,288        100                                                      10,276,288
GX Mets (Jeep)                         1,500,000         1,922,737        100                                                       1,922,737
GXMeds(pick-up)                        8100,030         10,382,782       100                                                      10,382,782
B.  Tnicks                                      137t4000          17.766.754                                                                17.766.754
TVE (10 tons)                           600,000           780,478        100                                                         780,478
TVE (5 ton)                            8,624,000        11,218,064        100                                                     11,218,064
GXMeds(lOton)                          4500,05 0        5,768,212        100                                                       5,768,212
C.  Minibus                                     2.                3.106.733                                                                  3,10 .733
Institution building                   1,600.000         2,081,273       100                                                       2,081,273
GX Meb                                  800.000          1,025,460        100                                                      1,025,460
D.  Van                                          2.400.000          3.083.968
Institution building                    400,000           520,318        100                                                         520,318
GX Meds (12 seats)                     1,600,0D0        2,050,920         100                                                      2,050,920
OX Meds (24 seats)                      400,000           512,730        100                                                         512,730
E.  Motorcycle                                   4.455.000        5793.054                                                                   5,793,
Health                                 4,350.000        5,658,462         100                                                      5.658,462
GXMeds                                  105,000           134,592        100                                                         134,592
F.  GX Mes:znall-tractn                          1.05.             1.345.916        100                                                      1.34591
GX Meds: boat                                   5.158.0          6,611.653        100                                                       6.611.653
1.3  MATERIALS                                     1483490J37        193J143.266,
A.  Constuction Materials                      124.313.332       161.706.273                                                               133,664.511
Steel                                 38.083.78        49,539.225                                                                 49.539.225
Education buildmnp               12,288,000        15,984,180        100                                                     15,984,180
Health buildinp                   5.104,000         6,639,262        300                                                      6,639,262
Labour buildinsp                  2,893,500         3,763,853        100                                                      3,763.853
Land & famer develop.             1,740,000         2,263,385        100                                                      2,263,385
Rural road                        4,479,320         5,826,681        100                                                      5,826,681
Rural water supply                4,328,800         5,630,885        100                                                      5,630,885
Rural energ                        314,160           408,658         100                                                        408,658
Water consenwicy woks             6,936,030         9,022,320        100                                                      9,022,320
Caemt                                 86229.552        112.167.048                                                                U125.2
Education bildinp                 8,573,880        11,152,868                 75                                              8,364,651
Healthbuildinp                    3,516,793        4,574,630                  75                                              3,430,972
Labotrbuilding                    2,121,210         2,759,261                 75                                              2,069,446
Land & fanner develop.            1,278,900         1,663,588                 75                                              1,247,691
Rural road                        5,245,086         6,822,786                 75                                              5,117,090
Rural wter supply                47,820,7S0       62,205,075                  75                                             46,653,806
Runal aegDr                        436,523           567,827                  75                                                425,870
Water ewaecy wets                17,236,380        22,421,013                 75                                             16,815,759
B.  Ohr Materials                              24167.5           31.436.993                                                                 23.577.745
Health                                 4116              5.475.201                                                                 4.10A
Vacine                            3,500,000        4,552,786                           75                                     3,414,589
Waterateanent chenicals            709,116           922,415                           75                                       691,811
Rural Waer Supply                     19,95.39         25,961792                                                                   19.471.344
Steel pipe                       15,822,390       20,581,700                  75                                             15,436,275
PVC pipe                          4,136,000         5,380,092                 75                                              4,035,069



- 193 -                                                              Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 9 - Table IS: Detailed Procurement and Disbursement by Expenditures (Yuan)
Total            Total                  Procurement/Disbursement                       Total Bank
Ban Cost      Project Cost       ICB    NCB   1S/NS        DS  FA/SC    NBF          Disburenment
1.4  OFFICE SPACE PURCHASE                        19,740,000       25,677,711                                                              19,258,283
A   lnstitution Building                      12,740,000       16,572,140                         75                                   12,429,105
B   Poverty& Project Monitonng                 7.000,000        9,105,571                         75                                    6,829,179
1.5  AGRICULTURAL INPUTS                         179,115,713      232,280,743                                                             218,309,664
A.  Inorganic Fertilizers                    115,844,020      150.689,428                                                             150,689.428
Urea                               52,900,900       68,813,274        100                                                   68,813,274
Superphosphate                     58,742,550       76,412,069        100                                                   76,412,069
Potassium chlonde                   4,200,570        5,464,084        100                                                     5,464,084
B   Pesticides                                15,881.846       20.659.041                         75                                   15,494.281
C.  Plastic sheet                              9.845.846       12.807,437                 75                                            9 605_578
D   Guangxi-Meds                              37,544,0         484124838                                                               42-520 378
Fertilizer                          20,055,000       25,707,000        100                                                   25,707,000
Others                              11,774,000        15,092,207                        75                                    11,319,156
Seedling                             5,715,000        7,325,630                         75                                     5,494,222
1.6  LIVESTOCK &                                 225,062,071      290,350,117                                                             217,762,588
AQUACULTURAL INPUTS
Piglet                                   12,388,320       16,114,676                         75                                    12,086,007
Sow                                      12,194,400       15,862,426                         75                                   11,896,819
Goat                                     27,550,680       35,837,812                 75                                           26,878,359
Canle                                    37,855,050       49,241,694                 75                                           36,931,271
Chicken                                   1,905,286        2,478,388                         75                                     1,858,791
Beehive                                   2,409,000        3,133,617                         75                                    2,350.213
Fishfry                                   2,613,335        3,399,415                         75                                    2,549,562
Turtle                                    1,125,000        1,463,395                         75                                     1,097,547
GX-Meds                                 127,021,000      162,818,693                                                              122.114020
Breeding Stock                      62,420,000       80,011,516                 75                                            60,008,637
Other breeding mataenal             64,601,000       82,807,176                 75                                            62,105,382
IL   WORKS                                     1.356,638288     1,759,688.524                                                             458,461.327
2.1  BUILDINGS                                   420,924,588      544,482,550                                                             184,714,657
Education                                86,513,000      112,535,757                                          20                  22,142,817
Health                                   33,512,857       43,593,388                                          20                   8,577,544
Labor                                    22,085,290       28,728,455                                          20                   5,652,683
Land and Farmer                           2,781,100        3,617,644                                          20                     711,817
TVE                                     115,026,271      149,625,702                 20                                           29,440,727
GX-Meds                                 161,006,070      206,381,605                 57                                           118,189,070
2.2  STUCTURE/EARTH WORK                         331,515,667      429,267,642                                                             119,103,479
Rural Electncity                         40,682,277       52,919,340                 20                                           10,412,542
Rural Road                               98,988,093      128,763,307                 20                                           25,335.790
Rural Water Supply                       51,994,686       67,634,475                                          20                  13,307,928
Water Conservancy                        34,394,016       44,739,595                 15                        5                   8,803,075
Rural energy                              1,793,565        2,333,062                                          20                     459,059
GX-Meds: site prep work                  53,391,000       68,437,918                                          57                  39,192,514
GX-MEDS Cultivation                      20,857,000       26,735,024                                                 100                  0
GX-Meds: utilities                       29,415,030       37,704,921                 57                                           21,592,571
2.3  CROP ESTABUSHMENT                           499,619,315      649,902,763                                          20                  127,876,492
2.4 IUVESTOCK MAITENENCE                         104,578,718      136,035,569                                          20                   26,766,699
mI  SERVICES                                     678,077,778      881.945.947                                                             646.215g93
3.1  TUMON & MEDICAL ASSISTANCE                  135,649,534      176,452,359                                                             148,160,048
A.  Education                                 61.318.320       79762.620                                                               5147309
Tuition                             38,160,000       49,638,372                        100                                    49,638,372
Nutntion                            21,750,000       28,292,311                                                  100                  0
Teacher salary                       1,408,320         1,831,937                       100                                     1,831,937
B   Health                                    743131.214       96.689,739                                                              96689739
Health fund                         46,922,614       61,036,744                        100                                    61,036,744
Health aid salary                   21.987,000       28,600.600                        100                                    28,600,600
Salary assistance                    5,421,600        7,052,395                        100                                     7,052,395



- 194 -                                                                Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Annex 9 - Table 15: Detailed Procurement and Disbursement by Expenditures (Yuan)
Total            Total                    Procurement/Disburwment                          Total Bank
Base Cost      Project Cost       ICB    NCB   IS/NS         DS   FA/SC    NBF          Diabursement
3.2  LABOR TRAINING & PLACEMENT                    342,465,558       445,477,798                                                               311,34,459
Inter-provincial                          184,875,438       240,485,214                          70                                   168.339.650
Intra-provincial                          157,590,120       204,992,584                          70                                   143,494,809
3.3  TA, TRAINING & RESEARCH                       199.962.686       260.015.790                                                                16.221.407
A   Education                                   14510.200         18,874809                                                                  18874.809
Teachertraining                       11,900,800        15,480,512                         100                                     15,4S0,512
Management trAning                     2,609,400         3,394,297                         100                                      3,394,297
B.  Health                                      30.306            39.422,571                                                                309657
Health aid training (village)         10,464,000        13,611,528                         100                                     13,611,528
Health aid training (tship)            4,350,000         5,658,462                         100                                     5.658,462
Disease Surveillance                   3,062,500         3,983,687                          50                                      1,991,844
Matemal & child health                 7,840,000        10.198,240                          50                                     5,099,120
Monitoring                             2,100,000         2,731,671                          50                                      1,365,836
Management trainLng                    2,490.000         3.238,982                         100                                     3,238,982
C   Laborrmobility                              10.430.128        13.567.468                          50                                     6.7S3.
D.  Land and farner                             53.238.626       69.252                                                                     3456268
Demonstration & training              22,843,272        29,714,435                          50                                     14,357,217
Extension                             10,557,606        13,733,291                          50                                     6,966.645
Support services                      19,837,748        25,804,862                          50                                    12,902,431
E.  Institution building                        34699.208        45,136,588                                                                 32.606.671
Consultants                            1,440,000         1,873,146                         100                                     1,873,146
Stafftraining                          7,317,688         9,518,819                         100                                     9,518,819
TA                                     6,676,520         8,684,790                         100                                     8,684,790
Monitoring                             2,700,000         3,512,149                          50                                     1,756,074
Workshop                               3,015,000         3,921,900                          50                                     1,960.950
Research &systemdevlopment            13,550,000        17,625,785                          50                                     3,812,892
F   Poverty & project monitonng                 2&850.770         37.528.964                                                                3l065621
Poverty monitoring                     6,201,500         8,066,886                         100                                     8,066,886
Training                              14,249,270        18,535,392                         100                                    18,535,392
Workshop                               8,400,000        10,926,686                         50                                      5,463,343
G.  TVE                                         22.927.254       29.823,678                                                                 23,8S9.381
Trairing                                   13,803,152        17,955,084                         100                                    17,955,084
Design                                      9,124,102        11,868,594                          50                                     5,934,297
H.  GX-Meds TA                                   5,000.           64125                              100                                     6125
IV. MANAGEMENT                                      31.081.607        40.430.3Z7                                                                20215.414
Education                                   3,205,392        4,169,561                           50                                     2,084.730
Health                                      2,634.803        3,427,341                           50                                     1,713.670
Labour                                      5,828,097         7,581,165                          50                                     3,790.582
Rural Infrastructure                        5,019,619        6,529,500                           50                                     3,264,750
Land and Farmer                            14,393,696        18,723,261                          50                                     9,361,630
V.  OTHER                                          232282.965        300365.765                                                                          Q
TVE Land Acquisition                             9,202,102        11,970,056                                                  100                   0
TVE RawMaterial                                128,795,863       167,537,132                                                   100                  0
GXMedsrecurrentcosts        .                   21,232,000       27,217,415                                                    100                  0
GXMedsLand Acquisition                          73,053,000       93,641,161                                                    100                  0
BASE COST                                        3,261,452,260
TOTAL                                                              4.131&3633 2.153A249291



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
STLART UPROCESTING
2.1   TORk deo-elopedio Missio
2.2   Segtiaff ranin  lnfnlzd                                            Z    I     F                  1
1.3  FMO StAff hired                                           A (F IIIF T T
2.7   Borod Lproaunhl   o                                             .Yh                                                           iH~
2.5   CrOd  oeSticgnang  tranin..
2.6  CPMO stffeoverseas std  o
II.  STROCUREMCTIVTIOEGOS        SRIE
3.2   Saffcuturainigputland Matzeril
23.2.O Instaffo Norbids
3.42Pb Contacefet aIrdndo dyseliem
3.3   PrOcurf oementofseuvyctoum
3.1.a Invitation for bids          .                                 WI-
3.1.b Contract awards and delivery
3.2 Fe wAgivefra cInputsaadesta rlshe
42  2boCokstprach raseds, deiered
4.3   Samplrefftent tf estn cnuce
43.Shoo rectatonstoruction
IV.   EDUALTIO SUBCOMPONENT
451   Fiaehewafwthfuediaetalished
5.2   MCHk surehiased dysemivestalid
5.3   Samblc stheahhcnstutWincondce



Calendar Yearm..:..                 1996                               1996                              2000               O12002
Bank Fiscal Year 1995        1996              1997             1998             1999              2000             2001             2002       12003
Qi £12 Q3 04  01  Q2 Q3 04 ::-11 12.Q.      0   Ql Q2 03 Q4 Q         2Q 04Qi Q2 03 04C1                12Q 4       01  02 03 04
5.4   Village post construction                                                  ......
5.5   Village health aide training
5.6   Village birth attendant training  7                                                                     .. 
5.7   Village health fund evaluation
5.8   Township hospital equipment prhs                                                                                                             .
VI.  LABOR MOBILITY COMPONENT
6.1   Supervision of pilot project
6.2   Monitoring plan finalized                                                         .......
6.3   Village/candidate orient. syst. reviewe
6.4   Safety/dorm conditions supervised                                                          i                                  U U
6.5   ACWF monitoring reports submitted
6.6   PMO monitoring reports submitted                                                                        ... ........
6.7   Cost Recovery design finalized
6.8   Research/dissemination                                 ._ ._ .U. .U
VIl.  GUANGXI MEDS SUBCOMPONENT
7.1   First BPREZ leases signed                         if                                          I   IFF
7.2   Nanning slum Improvement design                                                                        .....  ...717..
7.3   Nanning slum imnprovement actMviies
7.4   Nanning migrant dorms design               .4.. . .                                                                                                 ........
7.5   Nanning migrant dorms constructed.........                                                                                                              :I
VilI  RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
8.1   Fengguo dam design finalized                                        F:J
8.2   Roads land acquisition mech. est'd
8.3   Construction of Fengguo
8.4   Road Construction                                                    .....___.__.......___.__.....__ ..__........ __
8.5   Other Infrastructure Construction                                        ... r...I..n...
IX   LAND AND FARMER DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT
9.1   Demonstration system finalized
9.2   Seed production/nursery syst. rev.          ... ...                                                    ::   
9.3   Cash  crop  extension  systemn reviewed.......                                                .   .    ... ................ ....
9.4   Tree crop extension system reviewed  ._____________.....______________________________
9.5   Land Improvement extension reviewed                                                                           ......
9.6   Agricultural research plan finalized
9.7   Agricultural research activities. ...........
X.   TOWNSHIP AND VILLAGE ENTERPRISES
10.2  Farmers market pilot              .... ..... ............



Calenar Vee ir'.jB    8           i',  1996     .        < ,'k     1998         1 9                 2000       QK.24>, .             2002
BankFlscalYear 1995         1996            1997             1998             1999            2000            2001             2002       2003
.  Bii. £a.N1N.>. q1 q~~~~~~Qi  2 03 04                                    : fit1 02 Q3 Q4                 Qfi ff  a2 Q3 04                 0f   i^ 1 Q2 03  a4
10.4  TVEworkersafety monkloring
10.5  TVE construction actviies
XI.  POVERTY MONITORING
11.1  SSBhouseholdsurveyinstru .final f.li:                                           I-I
11.2  Annu  fiel survey conducted    |    __       __      __       __       LJi'lLL. |                                              iII1ZIIL]
11.3  SSB summary report sub to Bank
XII. PROJECT EVALUATION
12.1  PDotphaseevluaklon                                                                                                             _______| 2BB . |  _JI   1 B     _I 
1 2.2 Midterm evaluatin
12.3  Project fnal evakuaion:
12.4  OED evauation
12.5  Audit Reports Due                                                                                                              __________________________
12.6  Proec Completion Report
Ia
14
I:bOrAeWcctable                     321195



- 198-                                   Annex 11
Table 1
CHINA
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule and Profile
Disbursement
IBRD                     Estimated Disbursement                  Profile /a
Fiscal Year          Semestral   Cumulative   Cumulative            Cumulative
Semester                  ($ Million)               (O)                   (%)
1996
1st                      12.4          12.4         5.0                     0
2nd                       12.3         24.7         10.0                    30
1997
1st                      24.8         49.5         20.0                    38
2nd                      24.8          74.2         30.0                   46
1998
1st                      24.8         99.0         40.0                    58
2nd                      24.8         123.7         50.0                   66
1999
1st                      24.8        148.5         60.0                    74
2nd                      24.8         173.2         70.0                   82
90
2000                                                                       94
1st                      24.8        198.0         80.0                    96
2nd                      24.8        222.7         90.0                    98
2001
1st                      12.4        235.1         95.0                   100
2nd                       12.4       247.5         100.0
/a Bank's standard disbursement profile for agriculuture in China.



Annex 12
-  199  -                                                    Table 1
CENA:
South-West Povety R duetlon Project
Table 1: Fam-gate Prices for Trded Inputs and Outputs t
Potasium Raw
Corn      Soybeans  Urea        TSP        DAP        Chlor      Silk
b/        b/
Net Trade Status                                                                      M          M          M          M          X
2000 Prices
World Market Prices a/                     Stton                        106       249        155        143        17S        115
Ocean freight                              S/ton                                              35         35         35         35
CIF or FOB Seaport                         S/ton                        106       249        190        17S        213        150
ClF orFOB Seporto/                        Y/ton                        926      2170       1651       1548       1857       1305    180000
Port charges & dis ributoremargin d/       Y/ton                      (113)      (225)       179        169        197        147    (5430)
Transport: porttowholesalere/              Y/ton                        234        234       156        156        156        156      (156)
Trasport: mill to wholesaler V                                           75        75         75         75         75         75        (75)
Price-exmill ht                            Y/ton                       1122      2254       2061       1949       2285       1684    174339
Processing adjustment                                                     1          1         1          1          1          1          1
Milling coat & assemblen'margin            Y/ton                       (22)       (45)        62         58         69         51       5230
Tansport: frmtomillg/                      Y/ton                         10         10        10         10         10         10          0
Farm gate price (via borderprice)          Y/ton                       1110      2219       2133       2017       2364       1744    179569
Economic price                             Y/ton                       1110      2219       2133       2017       2364       1744    179569
Financial price h/                         Y/ton                       1100      2000       1400       1100       1600       1035    170000
1250       859       1600       1035    170000
2005 Prices
World Market Prices a/                     Ston                          91       266        151        139        172        111
Ocean freight                              S/ton                                              35         35         35         35
CIF or FOB Seaport                          Stton                        91        266       186        174        207        146
ClForFOB Seportc/                           Y/ton                       789      2310       1621       1511       1801       1268    180000
Port charges & distributon'margin dt        Y/ton                      -101        238       176        166        192        144      (5430)
Transport: porttowholesalere/              Y/ton                        234       234        156        156        156        156       (156)
Transport: mill to wholesaler fl                                         75         75        75         75         75         75        (75)
Price-exmiill h/                           Y/ton                        997      2857       2029       1908       2224       1643    174339
Processing adjustment                                                     1          1          1          1         1          1          1
Mfilling cost & asemblen'margin             Y/ton                      (20)       (57)        61         57         67         49       5230
Tansport: farm to mill gt                   Y/ton                        10         10         10        10         10         10          0
Fam gateprice(viaborderprice)               Y/ton                       987      2810       2099       1975       2301       1702    179569
Economic price                             Y/ton                        987      2810       2099       1975       2301       1702    179569
Financialpriceht                           Y/ton                       1100      2000       1400       1100       1600       1035    170000
a/ Based on World Bank Commodity Price Forcaxts, Nov.21,1994, adjusted to 1994 oonstdnL price.
Price raw silk ii based on China's export satistics.
bh Ibe project ar  is grain deficit area. Both corn and soybea  are imported from NorthlEat China.
c/ Exchange rate of YS.70 - USSI.00.
d/ Port charges of Y30/t plus 9% (3% for raw silk) distibutors' margin.
c/ Distance from wholesaleenr to port is approsimately 1000 km by rail at Y0.125/tonA=
ft Distance from mill to wholesalers is approximately 150 km by road at 0.5/ton/km.
g/ Distance from farm to ill is 20 km on average by road at Y0.5/tontkm.
h/ Govermnment prices for fertilizes, market prices for other itmes.



Anncx 12
- 200 -                                    Table 2
CHINA:
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Table 2: Main Conversion Factors
Showdow Exchage Rate                                Y8.70 - USS 1.00
Standard Conversion Factor                                 1
Rail Freight                                            1.25
Unskilled Labor
Farming                                                 0.8
Construction                                            0.6
Skilled/technician                                      1.51
Other inputs/outputs                                Border or Market Prices



CHINA:
Southwest Poverty Reduction Projed
Table 3: Village Progrm-Kat Range Region
Teraced Land
Financial Crop Budget
(RMB Yuan)                                                                   (I hectae)
Amount                                                    Quantity
Com                     Soybeans                      Corn                          Soybeans
Unit
Unit      Price    Yrl        Yr2       Yr3      Yri       Yr2       Yr3       Yrl       Yr2       Yr3       Yrl       Yr2       Yr3
Yield                       ton                                                                                    1.8       3.5       4.7       0.7       1.2       1.2
Price                        YAon                   1100.0    1100.0    1100.0   2000.0    2000.0   2000.0                                       1.0       1.3       1.3
Product value                Y                       1980.0   3850.0   5170.0   1400.0   2400.0   2400.0
By-productvalue/a            y                        75.0      138.0    195.0      50.0      65.0      65.0       2.5       4.6       6.5       1.0       1.3       1.3
Total value                  Y                      2055.0    3988.0   5365.0   1450.0   2465.0   2465.0
0
Input Costs
Seeds price                                           3.0       3.0       3.0       3.6       3.6       3.6                                                              1
Seeds                       kg                      120.0      120.0    120.0     180.0     180.0    180.0       40.0      40.0      40.0      50.0      50.0     50.0
Fert N                      kg         3.04347S      152.2    243.5    365.2       60.9     121.7     121.7      50.0      80.0    120.0       20.0     40.0      40.0
FerL. P                     kg         2.391304     239.1      119.6    119.6    167.4    203.3       203.3     100.0      50.0      50.0      70.0      85.0     85.0
FertK                       kg          1.696721    169.7      135.7    135.7      59.4     118.8     118.8     100.0      80.0      80.0      35.0     70.0      70.0
Micronutrient               kg                8       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Composes                   ton               40    1200.0    280.0    280.0    320.0        320.0    320.0       30.0       7.0       7.0       8.0       8.0      8.0
FarFn chemicals             kg                8      72.0      72.0      72.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       9.0       9.0       9.0
Plastics                    kg              7.4     111.0      111.0    111.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      15.0      15.0      15.0
Drafl animal                                 25     300.0    450.0    600.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      12.0      18.0      24.0
Others                                        I       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                                      1    2364.0    1531.8   1803.5    787.6       943.8    943.8
Net income                                            (309)    2456.2   3561.5    662.4    1521.2    1521.2
Labor Required               Man-day           5     900.0    900.0    900.0    600.0        600.0    600.0      180.0    180.0    180.0       120.0    120.0    120.0
Net value                                           (1,209)    1556.2   2661.5      62.4     921.2    921.2
Income per labor day                                   (2)       13.6     19.8       5.5      12.7      12.7
5 -



CHINA:
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Table 4: Village Program--Kast Range Region
Yield Improvement
Financial Crop Budget (RMB Yuan)
-------- Amount --------               ------- Quantity --------
Corn              Soybean              Corn               Soybean
Unit
Unit      Price     YrO       Yrl      YrO       Yrl       YrO       Yrl       YrO       Yrl
Price                        YAon                  1,100.0   1,100.0   2,000.0   2,000.0
Product value                Y                     2,310.0   3,839.0   1,200.0   2,000.0      2.1       3.5       0.6       1.0
By-product value             Y                        81.9     120.0     40.0      50.0       2.7       4.0       0.8       1.0
Total value                  Y                     2,391.9   3,959.0   1,240.0   2,050.0
Input Costs
Seeds price                 kg                        3.0      3.0       3.6       3.0                                              N
Seeds                       kg                      120.0    120.0      180.0    150.0      40.0      40.0      50.0      50.0
Fert. N                     kg              3.0     152.2    243.5      60.9      121.7     50.0      80.0      20.0      40.0
Fert. P                     kg              2.4       0.0    129.1      95.7    203.3        0.0      54.0      40.0      85.0
Fert. K                     kg              1.7       0.0     129.0     59.4      118.8               76.0      35.0      70.0
Micronutrient               kg              8.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Composes                   ton             40.0      80.0    480.0    320.0    320.0         2.0      12.0       8.0       8.0
Farm chemicals              kg              8.0       0.0     40.0       0.0       0.0                 5.0
Plastics                    kg              7.4       0.0     59.2       0.0       0.0                 8.0
Draft animal                day            25.0    300.0    300.0        0.0       0.0      12.0      12.0
Others                                      1.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                                   1.0    655.2   1,503.8    719.5    916.8
Net income                                         1,736.7   2,455.2    520.5   1,133.2
Labor Required              Man-day          5.0    850.0   1,000.0    600.0    600.0       170.0    200.0      120.0    120.0
Net value                                            886.7   1,455.2    (79.5)    533.2
Income per labor day                                  10.2     12.3       4.3       9.4



CHINA:
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Table 5: Village Program-Kast Range Region
Goat Breading
Financial Production Budget (RMB Yuan)
(I mature goat)
Amount                                             Quantity
Unit
Unit      Price     YrO       Yrl        Yr2       Yr3       Yr4-20    YrO       Yrl        Yr2       Yr3       Yr4-20
Animal Sales
Finished goats                kg              6.0      93.0      72.2      97.5      187.5     187.5      15.5      12.0      16.3      31.3       31.3
Culled anaimal                kg              3.5      26.3       9.2      18.4       30.6      30.6       7.5       2.6       5.3        8.8       8.8
Organic Fertilizer            ton            40.0       9.0        8.9      10.1      11.9      11.9       0.2        0.2       0.3       0.3       0.3
Total Income                                          128.3      90.3     126.0     230.0     230.0
Input Cost
Urea                         kg              1.4       0.0       14.5      16.4      19.3      19.3                 10.4      11.7      13.8      13.8
Salt                         kg              1.1       2.8        2.4       2.8       3.3       3.3       2.5        2.2       2.5       3.0       3.0  o
Plastic film                 kg              7.4       0.0        3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5                  0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5
Corn straw                   kg              0.0       0.0        1.8       2.0       2.4       4.0                 45.0      51.0      60.0     100.0
Corn feed                    kg              1.1       0.0        4.2       4.7       5.5       8.9                  3.8       4.3       5.0       8.0
Aditives                     kg              4.0       0.0        3.0       3.4       4.0       4.0                  0.8       0.9       1.0       1.0
Veterinary service           head           10.0       0.0        7.5       8.5      10.0      10.0                 0.8        0.9       1.0       1.0
A.I.                         head            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                                                 0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                                              2.8      36.9      41.3      48.0      52.9
Net income                                           125.5       53.4      84.7     182.0     177.1
Labor Required               man-day         5.0      75.0       75.0      80.0      90.0      90.0       15.0      15.0      16.0      18.0      18.0
Net value                                             50.5      (21.6)      4.7      92.0      87.1
Income per labor day                                   8.4        3.6       5.3      10.1       9.8



CHINA:
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Table 6: Village Program-Kast Range Region
Pig Fattening
Financial Production Budget (RMB Yuan)
(I head)
Amount                    Quantity
Unit
Unit     Price     YrO       Yrl       Yr2-20    YIO       Yrl
Animal Sales                  kg             6.0     330.0    480.0    480.0        55.0      80.0
Organic Fertilizer           ton            40.0      24.0      40.0      40.0       0.6       1.0
Total Income                 Y                      354.0    520.0    520.0
Input Cost
Young animal                 kg             7.4     118.4    118.4      118.4      16.0      16.0
Green fodder                 kg             0.0      11.0      16.0      16.0    275.0    400.0
Cor feed                     kg             1.1     244.1     319.5     319.5    220.0      288.0
Aditives                     kg             4.0       0.0       3.2       3.2                 0.8
Veterinary service           head           8.0       0.0       8.0       8.0                 1.0
Others                                                0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotal                                          373.5    465.1      465.1
Net income                                          (19.5)     54.9      54.9
Labor Required               man-day        5.0      60.0      50.0      50.0      12.0      10.0
Net value                                           (79.5)      4.9       4.9
Income per labor day                                 (1.6)      5.5       5.5
&E
I0 S-



CHINA:
Sou_thwes Pmuty Redacem Pr.j.t
Tabl 7: Vila  Program-Kat Rue Regin
One Hectare of Mubeny"Kocoon PodutXi
Fmcial Cost snd Benefit (RMB Yuu)
Amount                                          Quantity
Unit
Unit      Price    WOP       Yrl       Yr2       Yr3       Yr4-20    YrO       Yrl       Yr2      Yr3       Yr4-20
Product value (cocoon)      ton         10,400.0   4,065.0      0.0   6,240.0  11,440.0  14,560.0      1.1       0.0       0.6       1.1       1.4
Byproduct (Faeses)          ton            40.0     142.9       0.0     64.0      128.0     128.0      3.2                 1.6       3.2       3.2
Byprodut (brnbches)                        30.0       0.0       0.0      90.0     180.0     180.0      6.0                 3.0       6.0       6.0
Total value                  Y                    4,207.9       0.0   6,394.0  11,748.0  14,868.0
Input Costs
Seedling                   Pc              0.2    270.0   3,375.0    337.5        0.0       0.0             22,500.0   2,250.0
Fent. N                     kg             3.0    253.7      223.3    603.7   1,095.7   1,217.4    400.0       75.0    200.0    360.0       400.0     1
FatL P                      kg             2.4      47.8     119.6    119.6      119.6     119.6     50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0
Fet. K                      kg             1.7      29.7      84.3      34.8     84.8      84.8      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0     °
Micionutrient              kg              3.0       0.0      40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0
Composes                    tao           40.0    230.0      300.0    300.0    300.0      300.0       7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5       7.5
Farm chemicals              kg            75.0       0.0     225.0    225.0    225.0      300.0       4.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       4.0
Draft animal                day           25.0       0.0     625.0      0.0       0.0       0.0                25.0
Tools                      sum            18.0       0.0      18.0      0.0       0.0       0.0                 1.0
Silkworm eggs              box            16.0       0.0       0.0    320.0    640.0      640.0      40.0                20.0     40.0       40.0
Silkworm chemicals         perbox         10.0       0.0       0.0    200.0    400.0      700.0      70.0                20.0     40.0       70.0
Lime                        kg             0.4       0.0     285.0    304.0    342.0      342.0    900.0      750.0    300.0    900.0       900.0
Raising facilities          fam          200.0       0.0   2,000.0      0.0       0.0       0.0                10.0
Raising ables              rarm          225.0       0.0   2,250.0      0.0       0.0       0.0                10.0
Othen                                              450.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Subtotcl                                         1,336.2   9,550.7   2,539.6   3,247.1   3,743.8
1.0
Net inome                                         2,871.6  (9,550.7)   3,354.4   8,500.9  11,124.2
Labor Required               Man-day        5.0   1,575.0   2,510.0   2,000.0   3,750.0   4,000.0    750.0    502.0    400.0    750.0        800.0
Net vakbc                                          1,296.6  (12,060.7)   1,354.4   4,750.9   7,1242
Income per lbor day                                   3.8     (19.0)      9.6      11.3      13.9
IRR                      0.3                               (13,3573)    238.1   2,366.9   5,084.2   5,0342    5,0S41    5,04.2   5,0841    5,0341         _



CHINA:
Soutawat Poverty Rsdmete Prajel
Table 3: Villae Progrn-Kas Ru, Regon
Sur Anine
Fiuim  Cot wid Benefit (RMB Yin)
Unit                                  AMOUNT
Unit     Price     YrO       Yrl      Yr2       Yr3       Yr4       Yff      Yr6       Yr7      YrS-I I    Yrl 2-20
Product valnue              ton        3,000.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    800.0   3,200.0   7,200.0   3,300.0
By-product value /a        ton           200.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    150.0    150.0    150.0    150.0
Total value                 Y                                 0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    950.0   3,350.0   7,350.0   3,950.0
0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    950.0   3,350.0   7,350.0   7,350.0
Inpu Ccc
SeIeiut                    pc             U.4              240.0      24.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Fert. N                    kg             3.0              121.7    121.7    121.7    121.7    243.5    243.5    243.5    243.5    243.5
Fet P                      kg             2.4              239.1      71.7     71.7      71.7      71.7     71.7      71.7      71.7      71.7
Feat K                     kg             1.7              169.7      50.9     50.9      50.9      50.9     50.9      50.9      50.9      50.9
Miaonuint                  kg             S.0               40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0
C ain                     ton            40.0              300.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Fa  chemxials             tine           75.0               75.0      75.0     75.0      75.0      75.0     75.0      75.0      75.0      75.0
Tools                     aum           180.0             10.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    180.0        0.0      13.0
OQi                                       1.0                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Sibtotal                                 1.0             1,365.5    383.4    359.4    359.4    481.1    431.1    661.1        431.1    499.1
1,365.5    383.4    359.4    359.4    481.1    431.1    661.1    431.1    481.1
Net                                                       (1,365.5)   (383.4)   (359.4)   (359.4)   (431.1)    468.9   2,683.9   6,368.9   8,450.9
LAborRef red                Ma-day         5.0             1,135.0    560.0    480.0    480.0    435.0    445.0    475.0    525.0    555.0
Net vaue                                                  (2.500.5)   (943.4)   (339.4)   (839.4)   (916.1)   23.9  2,213.9   6,343.9   7,395.9
noenm perlabor day                                           (6.0)     (3.4)     (3.7)    (3.7)     (5.5)     5.3      23.3      65.4     76.1               0
475.0   1,135.0    560.0   .480.0    480.0    435.0    445.0    475.0    525.0    525.0
IRK                               0.3
QUANTrrY
YrO      Yrl       Yr2      Yr3       Yr4       Yff       Yr6      Yr7       Yl-I I    Yrl 2-20
Product valt                ton        8,000.0      0.4                                                       0.1       0.4       0.9      1.1
By-produ i valt1/          ton           200.0     0.                                                        0.8       0.3       0.3      0.8
TOt value                   Y
7,350.0   7,350.0   8,950.0   3,950.0   8,950.0   3,950.0   3,950.0   8,950 0   3,950.0   3,950.0
b-  Comb
Seedlinp                   PC             0.4              600.0      60.0
FerL N                     kg             3.0     80.0      40.0      40.0     40.0      40.0      80.0     80.0      80.0      30.0     30.0
Feat P                     kg             2.4     30.0    100.0       30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0
Fa IK                      kg             1.7     30.0    100.0       30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0
Micenatnet                 kg             8.0      5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0       5.0       5.0      5.0
Cons                      ton            40.0                7.5
FunndiMla                 time           75.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0
Toots                      am           130.0                1.0                                                       1.0                0.1
Othiea                                    1.0
Subtoa                                   1.0
481.1    481.1     499.1    499.1    499.1    499.1    499.1    499.1        499.1    499.1
Net, 
LAborRequRr.d               Mai-day        5.0     95.0    227.0    112.0       96.0      96.0      37.0     89.0      95.0    105.0    111.0
Net value
ncane pe iab- day
525.0    525.0    555.0    555.0    555.0    555.0  , 555.0    555.0    555.0    555.0                       >4
0X



CH9A
s.utwet Pny  Rada Prjctd
Ta  9: Vilbe Propua-KIa Rap Region
Lbor Mobility
Firil Co sd anBn
Unit                                    Projet Yew
tbit      Value     WOP       Yrl       Yr2       Yr3       Yr4       Yr5       Yr6       Yr7        Yr8-20
Incrnental labor oute-
Inter Province               Pson                     26.7       0.0       6.3      1217      22.2      22.2       0.0       0.0        0.0
WithinProvnce                Ps         .             44.5       0.0      10.6      21.2      37.0      37.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Within Coaty                 Pson                     17.8       0.0       4.2       8.5      14.8      14.3       0.0       0.0        0.0
Toal                                                 89.0       0.0      21.2      42.3      74.0      74.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Incranral lbora aWlrpd a/
bterProvince                 PSon                                          5.4      15.9      33.5      49.3      44.7      40.3       38.1
Within Province              Pson                                          9.0      26.4      55.3      32.2      74.6      67.2       63.5
Within Comly                PNon                                           3.6      10.6      22.3      32.9      29.3      26.9       25.4
Toal                                                                     Io.0      529      111.6     164.4     149.1      134.3     126.9
hberemia Benafit
bter Pronnce                 Ponlyr      5,000.0     133.5       0.0      27.0      79.3     167.3     246.7     223.7     201.5      190.4
Wihin Provinc                paoyr       3,850.0     171.3       0.0      34.6     101.3     234.3    316.5      217.0     253.5     244.3                 1
WithinCosAty                 PaSntyr     2,750.0      49.0       0.0       9.9      29.1      61.4      90.4      32.0      73.9      69.3
Total                                   3,975.0     353.3       0.0      71.5     210.2     443.5     653.7     592.7      533.9     504.4                O
-4
IrantI Cau 
Buikliag                     YtPson        40.0                  1.7       3.3       3.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Vdsiela                       Y/Pson        10.4                 0.4       1.0       0.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Equip. a lfxitwe             Y/Psan        13.1                  0.3       1.7       1.3       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Stafftr.rL&TA                Y/Psan        11.2                  0.3       1.7       1.3       0.0       00        0.0       0.0       0.0
Trairi gu  planma            YIPson      1,340.0
her Province                 Y/Pon      2,000.0                127       25.4      44.4       44.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Within Prinnc                Y/Pson      1,200.0               127       25.4      44.4       44.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Within County                Y/Pson       700.0                 3.0       5.9       10 4      10.4       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Rant cost
Mwaun_                       Y/PSon        25.6                           0.5        1.4       2.9       4.2       3.8       3.4       3.2
Liisoap.(ofi )                             60.0                          42.9      1261      266.1     392.2     355.6     320.3    302.7
Total t                                                        320      108.3     233.1     368.1     396.4     359.4     323.7      305.9
Taxffee (      0.3   )                                            0.0       36       10.5      22.2      32.7      29.6      26.7      25.2
Inuesuat   h flow                                               (320)    (40.4)    (33.4)      53.2    224.6      203.6     183.4     173.3
Paybak totheproqun(.ofuncws)                20.0                           16.3      50.4      92.5    317.7       58.3       0.0       0.0
Fne  ndet cash flow
Total                                                          141.5     153.3     175.1     226.4     285.3     319.7     355.1     343.3
uemcrtal                                                         0.0      11.3      33.6      84.9     143.L    373.2      213.5     201.3
IRR                                07
al Job sutininig rate is asmned to be 85'6, 756%, 70'/, for the furt tOmr yan, md 60% for the followiqraus                                                    - 
N0



CHINA:
S_.ulkwa P.w         Radum 11e1
TAbh 10-- Vft    Po4sw-KIt Ro    3agi
ECf_ Cod NW BDS
nY0M
Ph0e Yom
1         2          3         4          5          6          7         3         9         10         11         12         13        14      15-19        20
hcrmnAmel BsOi
Fsldacpe                           57.4      109.1      131.1     141.3      164.4      206.3     214.6     214.6      214.6      214.6      214.6     214.6      214.6      214.6     214.6      214.6
U.itack                            29.2       66.4       986.     117.9      121.5      121.5     121.5      121.5     121.5      121.5      121.5     121.5      121.5      121.5     121.5      121.5
Tr.ewrop                            0.0       25.5       78.6     156.1      203.9      231.6     275.0     379.5      505.1      561.1      561.1     575.5      612.3      634.7     634.7      634.7
L    1bobaity                       0.0       71.5     210.2      443.5      653.7      592.7     533.9     504.4      504.4      504.4     504.4      504.4      504.4      504.4     504.4      504.4
Rwl e.iqee                          0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
T1OW(l)                          86.6      273.2     513.5      364.     1,163.5    1,152.1    1,145.0   1,220.1    1,345.7    1,401.7    1,401.7    1,416.1    1,452.9    1,475.3    1,475.3    1,475.3
1_1 Co
Fied cm"                          76.9       97.2      68.g       40.5        0.0        0.0
Liv1oc                            39.6       48.9      10.6        0.0        0.0        0.0
Tres =gm                          76.7      135.9     147.1       42.1       41.3        0.0
Lobo oua&r                        32.0       64.9     105.6       99.2        0.0        0.0                                                                                                                                    1%
Rla <alp_                          0.0        0.0       0 0        0.0        0.0       0 0                                                                                                                                      0 )
Odkn                              10.5       15.0       11.8       3.4        2.4        0.0
S5bto1d(2)                      235.7      361.9     343.9      135.1       43.7        0.0
1_croIneowmkqaiel                  19.5       25.0       16.2       9.3        7.6        2.8       2.0        1.5       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      (34.5)
(3)
Fild crop                         30.4       63.2      78.0       34.8      104.1     101.1      102.7     102.7      102.7      102.7     102.7      102.7      102.7      102.7     102.7      102.7
L1d&                              23.7       52.7      64.6       68.5       70.0      70.1       70.1      70.1       70.1      70.1       70.1       70.1       70.1      70.1       70.1       70.1
Tarqw                              0.0       18.2      50.7       93.2      111.7      157.3     160.5      164.3     164.3      162.4     162.4      162.9      164.0      164.6     164.6      164.6
Labor obaly                        0.0       43.3     127.5      268.9      396.4     359.4      323.7     305.9      305.9      305.9     305.t      305.9      305.9      305.9     305.9      305.9
Rlo  wtA=ei
Sobl1aI(4)                       54.1      177.4     320.1      515.5      682.2     648.0      657.1     643.1      643.0      641.2     641.2      641.6      642.7      643.4     643.4      643.4
T.f.  (        0.1   )              4.3       13.7      25.9       43.2       58.2       57.6      57.2      61.0       67.3       70.1       70.1      70.3       72.6       73.8      73.8       73.3
TotalCodo                       313.6      577.9     706.5      753.7      791.7     748.4      716.4     705.6      710.3      711.3     711.3      712.4      715.4     717.2      717.2      632.7
(5-2+3+4)                         -         -          -          -         -          -.         _          _          -         _          _          _         _         _,         _          _
Net BDeet                        (227.1)   (304.7)    (183.3)     111.1      371.8     403J.      423.6     514.5      635.4      690.4     690.4      703.6      737.5     758.1      758.1      753.1
(6-1-5)                             -         -          -          _          _          _              _         _         _          _      _          _         _          _
wry (12%)                       2,47.3                                                                                                                                                                                            p 
EIRR                                0.4                                                                                                                                                                                           2   U
__   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I..3>



CHINA:
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Table 11: Summary of Economic Analysis Results
Investment            Revenue            Production             Production
up                 down               cost up            Posponed I Yr
Base      I150%o     Switch        10%/0    Switch        10%/0    Switch
Case       IRR       Value        IRR       Value        IRR       Value             IRR
Village Program I - Yungui Plateau
Whole program                              400/o       19%/e     302%        32%         36%        35%        68%              32%
Terracing                                   13%         4%         5%         11%         3%         12%         9%/0           10o%
Land improvemcnt                           38%         11%       137%/       25%         21%        29eh        33%             28%
Goat raising                                26%        100h/     1200/.       1 90/      21%        22%         33%             22%
Cattle raising                              390/%      22%       4 1 /O      30%/,       30h/        32%        49Y.            33%
Mulberiy/silkworm                          32%        21%        475%        30 /e       66%        31%       372%             28%
Star anise                                 33%         20%/e     417%/6      300/.       64%        32%        337%             27/%
Labor Mobility                             91%         34%       481%        66%         32%        76%         51%             56%
Village Program -Karst range region
Whole program                               38Ye       13%       244%        30N         32%        33%         59Y             31%
Terracing                                   14%         5%        21%         11%         8%         13%        14%             13%
Land improvement                           46%         13%       164%        26%         19%f.      32%         27%             34%
Goat raising                               25%          90/%     100e%        18%        18%        200o%       29%             21%
Mulberry/silkwonr                          300/o       13%       166%        26%         35%        28%         81%             25%
Star anise                                 29/,        170/o     304%        270/        61%        28%      >100%Y            26%
Labor Mobility                              91%       344%       458%        66%         32%        76%         53%             56%
Labor Mobility Component                     86%        33%       4600/o      64%         32%        73%         53%             55%
TVE Development
Silk reeling                                32%        13%       169%/o      24%         21%        24%        22%              27%
Fruit Processing                           42%         17%/      223%        33%         32%        34%         35%             33%
Others                                     45%         19°/e     249%/e       38%        400/h      390o%      50h/6            35%
The whole project                            0.4
ix



CMNA.
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Table 12: Summary of Financial Analysis Results
Investment            Revenue           Production                  Production
up                   down             costup                 Posponed I Yr
Base       150/      Switch       10Y      Switch        10%          Switch
Casie       IRR       Value        IRR      Value        IRR           Value            IRR
Village Program I - Yungui Plateau
Whole program                              34%        16%       240%        27Y         30%/e      30°/            57W*           28%
Terracing                                  11%         2%        -8%         9Y         -5%        11%            -16%             9%
Land improvement                          46%         14%       169%        32%        27/         38%            49%             33%
Cioat raising                             20%          7%/.      68%         14%        12%        16%             18%            17%
Cattle raising                             26%        15%       226%         18%        17%        20Y            23%             23%
Mulberry/silkworm                         29%/e       18%       366%        2W7         58%        28%           295%             25%
Star anise                                29%/        17%       311%        27%         55%        28%           256%             23%
Labor Mobility                            72%          2%       340%/e        9Y       26%         11%            41%              9%/e
Village Program L-Karst range region                                                                                                                    0
Whole program                              37%         7Y       221%         16%        30Ye       17%            58%             Ie 17'
Terracing                                  14%         4%        21%         12%         9Ye       13%            21%             13%
Land improvement                           67%        18%       231%        41%         26%        51%            45%             43%
Goat raising                               18%         6%        51%         12%         9Y        14%             14%            16%
Mulbeffy/silkwornn                         25%        10Ye      116%        21%        27%         23%             58%            21%
Star anise                                29Ye        18%       313%        27A        58%         290/         >100%e           26%
Labor Mobility                             72%        26%       347/        49%/        27%        58%            44%             47%
Labor Mobility Component                    69%        26%       352%        48Y         2We        56%             43%            46%
TVE Development
Silk reeling                               19%/        4%        43%         6%          6%        7r/             6%             16%
FruitProcessing                           21%          5%        56%         9%Y         8%        11%             9Y             18%
Others                                     19Y.       19Y.      150%e       38%         10%/.      39%/e           10%            35%
The whole project                           29%



CM&
TaM II vow nPrm-lCd ROWp RdlPm
Funm Mod.e I of
(EMB Y)
Ulk      i      /0W         WP      WOP           1         2          3         4         5         6          7         a          9        Is         I1        12         13     1420
CM" (CdLe.mh                                     0.3       0.2
Cam                                                              3.6        1,157 37    3,257.4   1.293    1,320.7    1^3    I.442.4   1,460        1.460.0    1.400     1.4600     1.400     1,460S    1.4602    1.440
Sob_                                                                3151     204.4      22m4      20.3       236.3     247.2     251.7     251.7      251.7     251.7      2SI.7     2l.7      251.7      251.7     251.7
Ga                 d                             0.5       1.3      65.3   .  92         139.1      92.3     235.1     243.2      243.2     243.2     243.2      243.2     243.2     243.2      23.2      243.2      243.2
Pis'    .                         _m            2.1        2.1     757.6      734       83133         I.8    049.      S493        49.1     341       049        Sol       341 39J              3491      WJ         349
Cm" di.                                          07        0.7     6236       62.       623A       62.0      623.0     6231       61        623A.     U3.0       623.0     a3         6210      623.0      6230      623.0
mabiy                           he              O.         00        .0.        0.      536         74       346.9    453.1       49A6      4.        495.6      495.6     4916      495A       4         495.6      495.6
sU rise                         ha              0.0        0.3      14.9      M4O.       349       143.9     149.9     149        1367.      64       496.7      775.8       0       900.2    932.2    1,p14.0    1.063J
L_Ab     Sy                      P...            0.2       0.7     7K2        730.2     945    1,253.2    1.771.7   2207    2.1033   13,725    1,907.1    1,907.1           0.3     30.3    3,97.        3,907.1   1,97.3
TOa l                                                            3636.5    3309    417    4.76(7    55303    6.2.I   6,176J    6161.0    6,3271               60.9       4.7313    6.7313    6.7633    645.1       "K
CMaha                                            0.3       0.2
CO.                                                                   .2     37n4       454       501.5      515.0    539.0      5331      535.2      535.2     535.2      535.2     S         535.2      535.2     535.2
l'                                                                 102.4     162   If 03          104.5      10.5      109.7    13304      110.4      1 34      110.4      30        14        3.4  1.4 1           330.4
G_d                              hnd             0.       133          .       12.       214        35.1      39.5      4.9        42.3      42.3      433        42.3      42.3       42.3      423        423       423
Pt      .                       had             2.1        2.1     7993       319.6      4U        350.2     a         3502      350.2      50.       3.2       350.2      302       302        30.2      050.2      350.2
Cd.                             had              0.7       0.7      91         931       31A        91A       91.6      93.6       91        91A       93A1       91A       91A       91A        91        931        93. 
kg              0O        01        t0         0.0       22A       57.1     I3.2       12        3243      1241      1241       124.      1232       124.      1243       124J      12.41
ha              0.0       0        231        21.4       21.4      21.4      21.4      21.4        U        742       731        76.2      7UA        70J       7.9        71S         .4           H
tLdmu  I                         Plm             0.2       07      471.7      471.7      W14       37   1,274.9    36I4.3   13.401.2   1,191.1    1115135    1.53    3.1513   131135          1,351.5 1 3.151.5   1,151.5
S _bMd                                                          1.7p(0    3,3        2,310     2%.4    3P033    3,3062        X21"       3I9J    25.7   2,3             295       2MU       2,9.9    2977A    2".4
T    _iu CM)                                                       253.2      216A      21357      3331      337.7     43.        024       4313      4Q29       462.5     4712      4711       473.4      4792      432A
MN    .                                                           3,573.4    iA47     13,7354    39.5    2.140.4   2,I1         2,52A    2,70.9   2,9.1    3,31623    32351    3.A    33131A             3332      3,43
o         V                                                        U0ainam w  MA1  2000  n0        me        2100      20.       200        USA        Me        20.       200       20         36*       20         200
Fiedasp                                                            373   W              92.2      94.          3 9 5          a3      * 5.3   .        53       913        913       953       953        913        95.3
Li_mD                                                              B3         OL5       o2         otI       ".         5.1   ff.l          "A.   "f.   III                tl         &I        9ff   l        flf I  "A
Tmaops                                                              4.2        U         71        153       2U.0      30.2      49.3       49        40A        41J3      41J       41A        41.7      4J         42.2
Laorny                                                             49.4       4.4       59A        74.      111.4     14J        132.3     124.1     1243       32413     3I2       324.3    I34I        1243        24
Told 2bor231                                                                235       244.2      276.5     3331      351.4     3523       345       345.1      345       346.1     343        341       345        346.7
rw      __ Carib immarm377.3                                                  3930      4137       4132      499.9    5093       5739       619.3     6.4       713.4      741.2     743.2      7475      74         7732
?.apLt     _P.d                                                    215.2      23(4      23U       2116.9     273.2      371        65       3.29 29999                     299        299        99       2399       2399
Ropeb'd
_bbbb u  g                                                          71         1.3       7.2       7.0        49        61        72         79        (4        93         9.5       93        9A         91        9.9
E        r_Wit bbw nmbfty                                           7.5        71        A         (4         (3        9.3 I               9.4       103        11.5      121       32J        12.1      114        12A
Toli            ^_mp rpmm(YAW
h.AW    w II                                                                 sn3
E             _d.hhIny                                                       451
Aa amp iam         la 4.?7  1            627Wal   ghact     ' k
SoAvmi. mmi ph', wd*s g.i.m
V' Fra eX"m   di UMt p_



Annex 12
212 -                    Table 14
a e   e   S      *    ;-    v  ---  -  IIt 
01    t}  fiwi    iiiS    -3iZ3it«33 1  Ij
-4 n     nitt-Be    siainQa:   I
al 3}1 1 g }} 1l^J I S; 011ls 3 «il 3  ,l1't1111,-



CIlNA.
Sadhwest Pmrty ReduUe. Prujct
Tabk 15: Labwr Mobilily Cm t
Economic Cost ad Bencfi
Unit                                PROJECT YEAR
Unit       Value      Yrl        Yr2       Yr3       Yr4       Yr            Yr6        Yr7    YrI-20
Labcm oLW mav
ima ProvinDe                    Pica                               4,500.0   9,0C0.0  1I,000.0  31,500.0       It,OW.0   9.0000        0.0
WithiaLPrvince                  Pion                               7,5W.0  15.000.0  30.000.0  5X500-0         30,000.0  15,0W.0       0.0
Within Couty                    Pia                                3.000.0   6.0C0.0  IZO000   21,000.0       1,0000.   6,000.0       0.0
Total                                                            15,000.0  30,000.0  60,000.0  105,000.0      60,0W00   30.0000       0.0
Laborcr anyed a
ider Povince                    PicN                               3,325.0   11,250.0  25,650.0  50,175.0      61,200.0  63,000.0  57,600.0
Within Provirce                 Pica                               6,375.0   13,750.0  42,750.0  133625.0     1OZ000.0  105,000.0  96,000.0
Within County                   Pica                               2,550.0   7,500.0  17,100.0  33,450.0       40,300.0  42,0000   38,400.0
Total                                                           I1750.0   37,5W.0  35,500.0  167,250.0       204,000.0  210,000.0  19O0OO0
1hmink Beaefit
InterProvince                   Y/pyr         5,000.0       0.0  19,125.0  56,250.0  123,250.0  250,375.0     306,000.0  315.900.0  283,00D.0
Within Provine                  YPn-yr         3,350.0      0.0  24,543.3  72,137.5  164,587.5  321,956.3     392,7000  404,2500  369,600.0
Wtin County                     Ylun-yr        2,750.0      0.0   7,012.5  20,625.0  47,025.0  91,917.5      12200.0  115,500.0  105,600.0
TOl                                           3,975.0      0.0  50,681.3  149,0625  339,3625  664,813.3      110,9W.0  334.750.0  763,200.0
hiearunau  camt                                                                                                                                           H
Build*                          YIpson           40.0    2400.0   5,400.0   4,20.0         0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0               >
Vehidck                          Y/Pacn          10.4     624.0    1,404.0   1,092.0       0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0               I
Ea    ad aim tuihf              Y/PMn            18.1   1,0160    2443.5   1,90.5          0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
StaffhuiL&TA                    YWP              13.2   I0ono    2,457.0    1,911.0        0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
Train_n NW placunt              Y/Pan          1.213.0
a Province Y,Prm                              1,730.0  3X010.0  16,020.0  32,040.0  56,070.0   3,040.0        16,020.0      0.0        0.0
Withdin Provinc                 YiPa          1,10D.0   3.250.0   16500.0  33,000.0   57,750.0  33,000.0       16,500.0      0 0       0.0
Wihin Comty                     Y/Pac          670.0  2X010.0   4,020.0   8,040.0   14,070.0   3,040.0         4,020.0       0.0       0.0
Raaet ced
M      _g n                     Y/vi-yr         25.6                326.4     960.0   2,181.1   4,231.6        5,222.4   5.376.0   4.915.2
Living ex.(% ofinn)                             60.0             30,403.8  39,437.5  203,917.5  396,391.3    480.0  500,350.0  457,920.0
Tdal cm                                                23,472.0  73,979.7  1T2,5S1.0  333,996.3  476,252.9   52,302.4  506,226.0  46Z,35.2
Taxfee (            )                                        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
lnmmall cb glow                                         (23.472.0) (23,293.4) (23,5185)   5.066.2  183,565.9   222597.6  323,524.0  300.364.3
Payback to be,pr eui(%otfme)                      20.0             11,925.0  35,775.0  71.550.0  131,175.0     131,175.0  71,550.0  23.850.0
FV  na cuh flow                                                     8,021.1   22,90.0  62206.2  130,470.9      187,9626  25,974.0  276,514.1
ElIR                                               0.9
NPV                                         1,215,015.4
at cb sustaining raie sumed to be 8S%*  0  70% for the  trme yeas mi 60% d                                                                                   Wia



CHINA.
SOtheA Pmvey Raduci. Project
Table 16: LAbor kobility Ccamponat
Finctal Cost md Baicfit
(Y'OOO)
Unit                                PROJECT YEAR
Unit      Value       Yrl        Yr2       Yr3       Yr4       Yrf           Yr6       Yr7    Yrt-20
Laborer out move
InterProvie                     PsMon                              4.5a0.0   9,000.0   1,O000.0  31,500.0      1,0000.   9.000.0       0.0
Within Province                 Pson                               7.500.0  15,000I 0   30.0000   52500 0      30.000.0  15000C0       00 
Within County                   Pson                               3.000.0   6,000.0  12,000.0  21.000.0       12,030.0   6.000.0      0.0
TOal                                                             IS5.00.0  30,000.0  60,000.0  105,0000       60,000.0  30,000.0      0.0
Laboe ciployed W
Ieb Provmnce                    Peon                               3,125.0   11,250.0  25,6500   50,175.0     61.200.0  63.0D0.0  57,600.0
Within Provuie                  Peon                               6,375.0  18,750.0  42,750.0   33,625.0     102,000.0  I05,000.0  96,000.0
Within Caoay                    Pson                               Z550.0   7,500.0  17,100.0   33,450.0       40,300.0  42,000.0  33,400.0
Total                                                            12,750.0  37,500.0  35,500.0  167,250.0     204,000.0  210,000.0  192,000.0
Inremel Baenef
Inter Provine                   Y/pSn-yr      5,000.0       0.0   19,125.0  56,250.0  128,250.0  250,375.0    306,000.0  315,000.0  233,000.0
WithinProvine                   Y/psnyr       3,b50.0       0.0  24,543.8  77,187.5  164,587.5  321,956.3     392,700.0  404,250.0  369,600.0
Within County                    Y/p'sn-yr    2,750.0       0.0   7,012.5  20,625.0  47,025.0   91,987.5      112,200.0  115,500.0  105,600.0
Total                                         3,975.0      0.0   50,6b1.3  149,0625  339,362.5  664,313.3    310,900.0  t34,750.0  763,20D.0
Increenal Co                                                                                                                                              -i
Buildirg                         Y/Pson          40.0   2,400.0    5,400.0   4,200.0       0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
Vehidca                         YPeon            10.4     624.0    1,404.0   1,092.0      00         0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
Equip. and fumitxe              YWP              13.1    1,06.0   2,443.5   1,900.5       0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
Staffatin   TA                   Y/lPSM          13.2   1,092.0    2457.0   1,911.0        0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0       0.0
Trainuig id placenent            Y/Pss         1,340.0
Inter Prvince                   YIPon         2,000.0   9,000.0   13,000.0  36,000.0  63,00D.0  36,000.0     1I.0000         0.0       0.0
Within Prvice                   Y/R on        1,200.0   9,000.0  13,000.0  36,000.0  63.000 0   36,000.0      1b.000.0       0.0       0.0
Within Caumty                   Y/P'son         700.0   2,1000    4,200.0   3,400.0  14,70D.0   8,400.0        4,200.0       0.0       0.0
Rcrxaxt cet
manent                          Y/p%n-yr        25.6                326.4     960.0   2.138.8   4,281.6        5,222.4   5,376.0   4,915.2
Ltvingexq.(%ofinc ee)                           60.0              30,408.3  39,437.5  203,917.5  393,391.3   486,540.0  500,850.0  457,920.0
Total cost                                             25,302.0   32,639.7  179,901.0  346,306.3  483.5729   531,962.4  506,226.0  462,335.2
Tax/fee (     0.1   )                                        0.0   2,534.1   7,453.1  16,993.1   33,240.9       40,545.0  41,737.5  33,160.0
lx eaI cinh flow                                        (25.302.0) (34,492.5) (33,291.6) (23,936.9) 148,OOS.0  233,392.6  236,736.5  262,204.3
Psyblaktodtiemproan(%ofincmmne)                   20.0             11,925.0  35,775.0  71,550.0  131,175.0     131,175.0  71,550.0  23,350.0
Fomer net chflow                                                    5,487.0  15,436.9  45,213.1   97,230.0     147,417.6  215,236.5  233,354.3
brenimid
FIRR                                              69%
NPV                                         1.00,316.0
a/ Job etainirg rate is suaned to be S5%, b0%. 70% for the firs tihree ywa snd 60% teaftaer.
0E 



CHINA.
Soutimms Pe.rty Rld.ctl. Projed
Tabe 17: GsA6iou Rural Irdwuty
Pnxam tG'o Proommssg F-qy
Cnh Flow Analys ('000 Yumn)
PROJECT YEARS
1        2         3         4         5         6         7             a        9         10       I1        12        13        14     15-29        30
In Flows
Raw ilk kles                     0.0   3,612.5   5,057.5   7,225.0   7,225.0   7,225.0   7,225 0       7,225.0   7,225.0   7,225.0   7,225.0   7.225 0   7,225 0    7,225.0   7,225.0   7,225.0
Otlhe                            0.0   2,295.0   3.213.0   4,590.0   4.590.0   4.590.0   4,590.0       4,590.0   4,590.0   4,590.0   4,590.0   4,590.0   4,5900    4,590.0   4,590.0   4,590.0
Totl                           00    5,907.5   8,270.5  11,8150   11,815.0  11,815.0  11,815.0      11,815.0  11.150   11,8150   11,815.0  I1.t15.0  11,815.0  11,815.0  11,815.0  11,815.0
Out Fows
Inwlsossm cat
Civil wob                    2,033.2      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
EsPWAses& MUSI4  m   1i,922.7             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Tr_Mw                           63.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Ots.                           216.9      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subbotl                     4,235.3      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
-WssA-wo                         0.0    630.9    245.1       367.6       0.0       0.0       0.0           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       00        0.0       0.0       00   (1,243.6)             H
Ln
Operft  o                         0.0   4,754.3   6,433.6   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2      9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2   9,090.2
Vak added A   c ncm t,            0.0    432.0    674.3    964.0    964.0    964.0    964.0              964.0    964.0    964.0      964.0    964.0    964.0    964.0        964 0     964.0
lssm tax                         0.0      39.9    183.7    430.6    451.3    472.1         492.3         503.2    503.2    503.2       503.2    503.2    503.2    503.2       503 2     503.2
ToeoutG&w                   4,235.8   5,907.1   7,392.3  10.352.4  10505.5  10.526.3  10,547.0     10,537.4  10,557.4  10,557.4  10.557.4  10,357.4  10,557.4  10,557.4  10,557.4   9,313.7
Nct Ch Flow                  (4,235.8)     0.4     6732      962.6   1,309.5   1,288.7   1,268 0       1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,237.6
Cobbow atcAaurtpnce         (4,439.9)     0.5    360.6   1,294.7   1,367.0   1,947.7   2,031.3        2,135.6   2,2637    2,399.6   2,543.5   2,696.2   2,357.9   3,029.4   3,211.2   3,403.3
B-owlg                       3,1430       00        0.0       0.0       0.0
Repq9a nto(isteho            (157.1)   (314.3)   (282.9)   (220.0)   (157.1)    (94.3)    (31.4)         (0.0)
Repsynet of  ip                 0.0       0.0   (628.6)   (628.6)   (628.6)   (628.6)   (623.6)           0.0
Nd  tMsCK%                  2,985.3   (314.3)   (911.5)   (843.6)   (785.7)   (722.9)   (660.0)         (0.0)
Cohb ow fteir  c
AtlaTetprice                (1,504.1)   (313.8)    (50.3)    446.2   1,081.3   1,224.3   1,371.3      2,135.6   2,263.7   2,399.6   2,543.5   2,696.2   2,857.9   3,029.4   3,211.2   3,4033
At cmumtpnos                (1,419.0)   (266.9)    (40.0)    331.7    753.4    810.4    836.0         1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6   1,257.6
NPV (12%)                     3,065.5
IR  to d  tresovu2m 02
IRR to equity inwter        9VALUE>
-J'|



CHINA:
S86hw,u revs ly Radueth. Vemjtc
Tdl it G_id Rwa h.mby
-_ Ftqao Muh FagY
C h Flaw A rIyh (l000 Yuen)
PROJECT YEARS
I        2         3         4        3         6         7            8         9        10       II        12        13        14    15-29        30
In Flows
FieprooSo mvaeral              0.0   5,400.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0      9,000.0   9,000.o   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0
OtMr,                            0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Totul                         0.0   5,400.0   9.000.0   9.00.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0      9,000.0   9,000.0   9,00.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,000.0   9,00o.0   9,000.0
Out Flon
Lnvstnent cost
Cnil wrb                    2,354.6      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Equmenot & instalatio        703.5       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Trainm4                      277.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                        204.7      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal                   4,040.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Incrementalworkin3cptal          0.0    581.S    343.1        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0   (924.9)
Opnatagcoha                     0.0   4,740.3   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9      6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9   6,292.9
Vaue addedAmaic. tame           0.0    661.3   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2       1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2   1,102.2
Ircome tax                      0.0       0.0    421.1      413.2    427.5    456.2    484.9          513.6    528.0    523.0    528.0    528.0    523.0    528.0    528.0    528.0
Total outt owe             4,040.0   5,9S3.9   4159.3   7,308.3   7,822.6   7,851.3   7,380.0      7,908.7   7,923.1   7.923.1   7,923.1   7,923.1   7,923.1   7,923.1   7,923.1   6,996.1
Net Cash Flow               (4,040.0)   (583.9)    840.7   1,191.7   1,177.4   1,143.7   1,120.0     1,091.3   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9
Cashflowatcwrataprice      (4,232.4)   (686.7)  1,066.8   1,603.0   1,678.7   1,736.1   1,794.3     1,853.2   1,936.5   2,054.9   2,178.2   2,306.3   2,447.4   2,594.2   2,749.9   2,914.9   3,089.8
BrOiWU                     2,997.7    480.7       0.0       0.0      0.0
Repsymaitof terei            (149.9)   (323.8)   (347.8)   (304.4)   (217.4)   (130.4)    (43.5)      (0.0)
Repaytnat of pndpei            0.0       0.0       0.0   (369.6)   (369.6)   (369.6)   (869.6)         0.0
Ned bmcig                  2,847.3    156.9   (347.3)  (1,174.0)  (1,067.0)  (1,000.0)   (913.1)      (0.0)
Cuh low afar       g
At canet pice              (1,434.6)   (529.8)    719.0    429.0    591.7    736.0    SS1.2         1,353.2   1,938.5   2,054.9   2,178.2   2,308.8   2447.4   2,594.2   2,749.9   2914.9   3,089.3
At cmd<tprice              (1,353.4)   (430.5)    566.6    319.0    415.0    487.0    550.0         1,091.3   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9   1,076.9
NPV (12%)                    2,270.7
IRR  to ml                      19%                                                                                                                               ~ 
[RRt to equiy inoa              29%                                                                                                                                                                         t 



CHINA,
S5telu  P.wrqy R.d.Ic. Fraisc
Tab 19. YYn RwuIhw&y
L- Sa Rm F-
Cmh Flow Andyi (000 Yan)
PROJECT YEARS
1        2         3         4         5         6         7            8         9         10       I1        12        13        14    15-29        30
In Fbos
Raw sk sales                     0.0       0.0   6,417.5    ,98,4.5  11,5515   12,S35.0  12,835.0     12.S35.0  12.835.0  12,835.0  12,35.0  12,8330   12,835.0  12,S35.0  12,835.0  12,S35.0
Ottia                            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0      0.0        0 0      0.0       0 0       0.0       0 0       0 0
Total                          0.0       0.0   6,417.5   8,9t4.5  11,551.5  12,835.0  12,S35.0      12,335.0  12,335.0  12,335.0  12,835.0  12,S35.0  12,335.0  12,S35.0  12,8350   12,335.0
Out Flob
Iwsnut cm
Ciiwork                      2,414.5      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
EqsWmuU & tiaflad               0.0    990.7        0 0       0.0       0.0       0.0
T na-I                          0.0      52.5       0 0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Cmhen                          127.3     57.6       0 0       0.0       0.0       0.0
SubSoul                     2.541.1   1,100.3      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
haunuIl IwoebWapii               0.0       0.0     699.3     267.9    267.9      134.0       0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0  (1,369.1) 
Opqi comb                        0.0       0.0   5,615.6   7,629.3   9,573.9  10,546.0  10,546.0      10546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0  10,546.0   6,292 9
Vahue aded & mc. am              0.0       0.0     324.1     453.3    5M3.5    648.3       648.3        643.3     648.3    648.3    643.3    648.3    6483.         643.3    6438    648.3
hne tS                           0.0       0.0      (39.9)    131.6    319.2    425.5      450.4        462.8     462.3    462.8    462.3    462.3        428       462.8    462.3    462.3
Toudosi Bows                2,541.3   1,100.S   6,669.2   3,483.1  10,744.5  11,753.7  11,644.6     11,657.1  11,657.1  11,657.1  11,657.1  11,657.1  11,657.1  11,657.1  11,657.1  10,237.9
Wd Cob Flow                  (2,541.8)  (1.100.8)   (251.7)    501.4    307.0   1,0S1.3   1,190.4      1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   I,l77.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,1779    1,177.9   1,076.9
V.unDm%
Cmihow atl CWTUt puma       (2,694.3)  (1,294.5)   (319.4)    674.4   1,150.6   1,634.2   1,907.0     2,000.3   2,120.3    2241.5   2,132.4   2,523.3   2,676.3   2,837.5   3,007.7   31, S2    3,089.3
B9OWN1g                      1,336.0    906.2    223.6        0.0       0.0
Repsymeolof'i_t               (94.3)   (233.9)   (290.4)   (263.9)   (It35)   (113.1)    (37.7)          0.0
Rqeayn  of IprEWW               0.0       0.0       0.0    (753.9)   (753.9)   (753.9)   (753.9)         0.0
Net Ar4                     1,791.7    672.3     (66.3)  (1.017.S)   (942.4)   (367.0)   (791.6)        0.0
Cmih flow a.6  bixi
Al ATet pefce                (9026)   (622.3)   (386.2)   (343.4)    20t.2    767.2   1,115.4         2,000.3  t2120.3   2,247.5   2,332.4   2,525.3   2,676.3   2,837.5   3,007.7   3,1Rt.2   3,069.3
Atconustwlprim               (851.5)   (529.1)   (304.4)   (255.3)    146.0    507.6    696.2         1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,177.9   1,076.9
NPV(12%)                      2,101.2
IRR toiresoufm                   19%
IRR to eqmuy W*w                 25%                                                                                                                                                                                kJ 



- 218 -                             Annex 13
CHINA: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Proposed Bank Group Supervision Input
Vision of a Community at Project Full Development
1.    After project completion, average annual per capita income in a typical project
community would increase to more than the nationally defined absolute poverty line of Y 320
(in constant 1992 prices). Through the establishment and reconstruction of village teaching
points, primary school enrollment and completion rates would approximate the provincial
averages of that time. The existing village health care clinic would be strengthened or, if
none existed, one would be built. Each clinic would receive at least one new village health
aide and salary increments would be provided to qualified health aides. Infant mortality rates
would be reduced from more than 10 percent at present to no more than 5 percent at full
development, and the maternal mortality ratio would be reduced by more than 30 percent.
Safe drinking water would be provided to at least 25 percent of the total number of project
beneficiaries, thus reducing diarrheal and water-related diseases and decreasing the time and
labor women are required to spend supplying water for their families and livestock.
2.    Improvements in the social sectors would be matched by increases in employment
opportunities, infrastructure and agriculture production techniques. At least 10 percent of
project villagers would gain access to off-farm employment opportunities through the project.
About 30 percent of all administrative villages would be connected by a basic (Class IV) road
to the existing network of county roads. About 70 percent of households in 21 percent of
project villages would benefit by electrification schemes. The village would most likely have
access to one of the 76 strategically placed farmers markets which would provide affordable
inputs and profitable outlets for products. In four out of five households, one member would
master one or two new farming skills. Terracing, improvement of low-yield fields, and
extension programs would be main factors contributing to expected yield increases of about
38 percent for corn, 46 percent for potato, and 107 percent for fodder. Most project
households would take part in the planting and maintenance of tree and bush species on
steeply sloped hillsides and wastelands, and about 30 percent of project households would
undertake animal breeding and fattening activities. The capacity of village organizations to
strategize and to manage their own resources would be strengthened through the development
and use of a participatory (including women and minorities) integrated village development
planning system.



- 219 -
ANNEX 13
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Proposed Bank Group Supervision Input
Proposed                                    Activities                              | Special                   Input
date                                                                                Skills                    s/w'
4/95       Prenegotiation Discussion. Review Preliminary Designs and Bidding       TM, procuremt,              15
Docs. Review pilot village activities. Review progress of labor mobility   education, labor,
activities financed   under rctroactive financing. Review training plan  health, agric.,
for counterpart staff. Review technical assistance plan (all components)    environmt.
and research plans for Land and Farmer Development component.                                            l
7/95        Ist Supervision and Project Launch Workshop for project staff on       TM, M&E,                    15
procurement, disburscment, financial management, Special Account,       procuremt
M&E, reporting, etc. Review PMO Terms of Reference for staff           education, labor,
positions. Interview interprovincial labor mobility component           health, agric.,
participants.                                                           environmt.
9/95        Review bids for vehicles, equipment, materials and services. Review    TM, M&E,                    10
analysis plan for poverty inonitorilig.                                 procuremt
12/95       2nd Supervision Mission: Rcview stalfing progress. Review               TM, education, labor,       15
managemenit training plan, including study tours. Review design of     health, agric.
PMO informationi system. Review of selectionl criteria for school fee
waiver, labor mobility candidaites. Review village health fund and
surveillance activities.
4/96        3rd Supervision Mission: Review of TVE design and construction          TM, education, labor,      10
progress. Review ol institution.al arrangeienits for each component.   health, agric.
Pilot labor mobility phase evaluated, report submitted by LGPR with
proposed component activity/procedure adjustments.
7/96        4th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress, poverty         TM, education, labor,       10
monitoring reports, discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible    health, agric.
for component implenilenultion.
3/97        Midterm  Revicw: Review of implementation progress and prospects,       TM, financial,             28
includinig village levcl impact, effccts on women and indigenous       procurement, health,
peoples (all componefits). Discussiois with ministries and bureaus     educ., labor, anthro.,
responsible for componieint impilmentation. Revicw LGPR proposal for   environmt., livestock
institutional arranigement and specilic component adjustments. Review
of effects oni indigcnous pcoplcs. Review audit rcsults and LGPR
proposal for managemeint systems improvemcints. Review of
environmental effects of project activities.
10/97       5th Supervision Mlission: Revicw ol cOIip1)oIcm1t progress, poverty     TM, education, labor,      10
monitoring reports, discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible    health, agric.
Cor componiciit implementation. Review of disseminiation and marketing
strategies lor lahor nohility colmponenilt.
1/ Staff weeks reflect ott.c and mission tiiime bpent on prOIect Supervision.



- 220 -
ANNEX 13
Proposed                                    Activities                                       Special            Input
Date                                                                    _                   Skills             s/w2
3/98       6th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress, poverty          TM, education, labor,       10
monitoring reports, discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible    health, agric.
for component implementation. Review of agriculture research results
and incorporation into component activities.
10/98       7th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress, poverty          TM, education, labor,       10
monitoring reports, discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible    health, agric.
for component implementation. Review of project audit report.
3/99        8th Supervision Mission: Review of component progress, poverty         TM, education, labor,       10
monitoring reports, discussions withi ministries and bureaus responsible    health, agric.,
for componcnt implcmienLtation.                                        environmt.
10/99       9th Supervision MNission: Rcvicw of component progress, poverty         TM, education, labor,       10
monitoring reports, discussions with ministries and bureaus responsible    health, agric.
for componcnt implemenuttion.
3/00        10th Supervision Mission: Review ot component progress, poverty        TM, M&E,                    10
monitoring reports, discussions With ministries and bureaus responsible    procuremt, education,
for component implementation. Review of project audit report.          labor, health, agric.
10100       I Ith Supervision Mission: Review ol component progress, poverty        TM, education, labor,       10
monitoring reports, discussions wih miiiistries adi bureaus responsible    health, agric.,
for component implemiceut.tion                                         environmt.
3/01        Final Supervision Mission: Final StalgC review of progress of individual   TM, education, labor,   12
components, institutional arranigcinents, and initial preparation for PCR.   health, agric.,
procuremt
10/01       Project Completion Mission: Rcvicw and compile project data, evaluate    TM, selected               15
results, impacts and benelits.                                         technical experts
and evaluation
specialists
10/03       Rcvicw Project Completion Report results                                TM, selected               20
technical and
evaluation specialists
[              Total Supervisiont Ioput (stall-wecks)                                                                220
Specialized acronymis:
TM        = task mianagcr                       procure       = procurement specialist
educ      = primiry education specialist        livestock       animal husbandry specialist
agric     = land tand Cnrnwr                    labor         = labor mobility specialist
devcloplocnt special st              health        = public health care specialist
antliro    = social antilropologist             cnvironmt    = environmental specialist
2/ Staff weeks reilcst ollice miutd mtissioln hiioc sp.'llt on Sontij£[ s.ip-visiouI.



- 221 -
ANNEX 13
CHINA
Soutiwcest Poverty Rcduction Project
Key Monitoring iidicators
Indicator                                                                                        Date
Health Subcomponent
Input Process Indicators
Number of staff trained at the county and provincial levels                                     Rept.
Number of hea]th aids and birth attendants trained                                              6/30
Number of health clinics and township hospitals                                                  12/31
renovated, constructed and expanded                                                           each
Number of treatmenits provided by villagc hcalth care                                           year
cooperative fund
Number of vaccine and special medicationi treatments
provided in disease prevention and control prograin
Number of pregnancies managed up to practice standardt
under the MCH program
Output Indicators                                                                               Initial &
Maternal Mortality Rate                                                                         final
Infant Mortality Rate
Education Subcomponenit
Net enrollment rates for primary schiool stidcnts
Completion rates for primary scIool studcilts (all, girls, minorities)
Number of poor students bnenhtting trouim 'ce waivers (all, girls. minorities)                  Rept.
Number of poor students receiving tree textbooks                                                6/30
Number of textbooks per student (all, g-Ils, ininorities)                                        12/31
Transition rate from primary to lowcr middle SCm0ol1                                            each
Number of dangerous schools upgraded                                                            year
Number of schools renovated, constrUcted
Number of teachers trained (all, girls, minorities)
Number of school principals trained
Outcome Indicators                                                                               Initial &
final
Literacy rates (all children, girls, minoritics)
Scholastic achievement (by grade, by topic)



- 222 -
ANNEX 13
Enhanced Rural Labor Mobility
Number of project arca surplus laborers altcnding orientation sessions
Number of placements by market (county, provincial, interprov.)
Number of monitoring visits to enterpriSCS t. ilh surplIs laborers                             Rept.
Number of accidents, instances of unsafe working/dorm conditions                               6/30
Rate of first one-year contract completioni. Rate ol rcnewcd contracts                         12/31
Percentage of surplus laborers in tilC Com1pnIenIt LIn11g payroll                              each
deductions for more than 50% of cost recovery                                                year
Number of surplus laborers who cover costs withiin 2 years of placement
Outcome Indicators                                                                             Initial &
Number of households aware of off-farm cmployment opportunities                                final
Average income levels of surplus laborers placed by thc
project (related indicators ior womenl and cthnic minorities)
Average off-farm income increase for participaLing househiolds
Rural Infrastructure
Number of rural works constructed (by type olw ork)                                            6/30
Per unit construction costs (for cach tvpc of work)                                            12/31
Outcome Indicators                                                                             Initial &
Number of families withi improved water supply                                                 final
Number of villages connected to rural road network
Land and Farmer Development
Number of ha planted for each crop (and productioni rates)                                     Rept.
Number of head of livestock raised (and survival rates)                                        6/30
Number of farmers and person days in training, othcr extension activities                      12/31
Number of farmers, villagcs taking part in demonstration neLwork                               each
year
Outcome Indicators                                                                             Initial &
Number of farmers who have mastered one new agric. productive skill                            final
Average farm income increase for participating houscholds
Township and Village Enterprises                                                                         |
Cost per job created and number of low skill jobs (Proj. surplus laborers)
Average income earned through backward linkages to project houseliolds                         Rept.
Standard financial indicators of TVE proiitability                                             6/30
Environmtal accidents reported by TVE, detcctcd by PMO, EPB                                    12/31
Number of working conditions, dormitory problems (PMO monitoring)                              each
Number of food processing TVEs mleeting rclevant naLional standards                            year
Number of farmers markets conistrLucted (related use indicators)
Outcome Indicators                                                                             Initial &
Increased farmer awareness of input and ouIpuL markets                                         fmnal
Increased off-farm income for participating houselholds



- 223 -
Annex 14
China
Southwest China Poverty Reduction Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
Reports and Worldng Papers Related to Poverty Issues'
China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s. (World Bank Country Study, 1992)
National 8-7 Poverty Reduction Plan, State Council's Leading Group on Poverty Reduction of the
State Council, 1994.
Project ReRorts and Studies
"World Bank Preparation Mission's List of Principles and Objectives". Attachment 1 to the Second
Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, March 28, 1994.
Minutes of Summary Discussion on Project Principles and Objectives. State Council's Leading Group
for Poverty Reduction summary following World Bank Second Preparation Mission (only available in
chinese)
Feasibility Study Report on the Cross-Province (Autonomous Region) Labor Migration Sub-Project
(report, statistical volume), China West Human Resources Development Centre, November 20, 1994.
World Bank Southwest China Poverty Reduction Project (Guizhou) -- Agriculture: Conmmunity
Participation and Community Forestry (Back-to-Office Report), Nick Menzies, Ford
Foundation/China, Beijing, February, 1994.
World Bank Office Report on Pre-Appraisal Mission to the China Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project (Indigenous Peoples Issues). Dr. Robert P. Weller, Boston University Institute for the Study
of Economic Culture, October 20, 1994.
World Bank Office Report on Pre-Appraisal Mission to the China Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project (Aquaculture Subprojects Technical Review). Ronald Zweig, Nov. 1994.
World Bank Office Report on Pre-Appraisal Mission to the China Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project (Livestock Improvement Activities). Ronald Glencross, Hassel and Associates, Perth,
Australia, May, 1994.
Southwest China Poverty Reduction Project, Preappraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, Land and
Farmer Development, Claude Saint-Pierre, October 18, 1994.
1/ Other documents are available in the project files in chinese only.



- 224 -
Annex 14
Design of Monitoring and Evaluation System in Southwest China Poverty Alleviation Project, World
Bank Loan Project Office, November, 1994.
Southwest China Poverty Reduction Project, Preappraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, Aquaculture
Components (Appraisal Mission).
East Asia Participation Review: China Southwest Poverty Reduction Project. Mary Schmidt, May 31,
1995.
Detailed Procurement and Disbursement Categories by Province (May, 1995).
Provincial Reports
Feasibility Study Report, World Bank Loan Project for Poverty Reduction in Southwest China, State
Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and Development, Nov. 1994.
Pre-Feasibility Reports: Pingguo, Tiandeng, Mashan Project Area in Guangxi, April, 1994.
Feasibility Studies for subloans in Guangxi MEDS Subcomponent: Nanning Fastgrowing Forestry,
Nanning Forestry, Nanning Low Cost Housing, Beihai Poverty Reduction Enterprise Zone, Beihai
Vegetables, Fangcheng Aquaculture Subloan, Beihai Aquaculture Activities (October, 1994)
Feasibility Study for Guizhou Province (includes summary statistical tables). Project Management
Office, Guizhou Province, November, 1994.
Feasibility Study for Yunnan Province (includes summary statistical tables). Project Management
Office, Yunnan Province, November, 1994.
Feasibility Study Report for Luquan County, Yunnan, November, 1994.
Feasibility Studies of Project Execution -- Designs and Plans, Puding County Comprehensive
Development Project, Puding County, Guizhou Province, April, 1994.
Model Village Integrated Design Study. Leading Group on Poverty Reduction, 1994.



- 225 -                               Annex 15
China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Names of Project Counties and Townships
GUANGXI
Mashan       Guling, Jiafang, Guzhai, Jinchai, Lidang, Pianlian, Yongzhou
Tiandeng    Tuokan, Fuxin, Jinjie, Xiangdu, Jindong, Shangying, Bahe
Pingguo      Taiping, Yexu, Puozao, Jiucheng, Haicheng, Duixu
Debao        Duan, Maai, Najia, Longsang, Dawang, Batou, Fuping, Dongling,Puxu
Jingxi       Lutong, Ronglao, Nanpuo, Tunpan, Longlin, Guole, Quyang, Qimeng,Dajia, Dadao
Napo         Chengxiang, Puohe, Dingye, Bahe, Bainan, Pingmeng
Linyun       Xiajia, Lingzhan, Donghe, Shali, Jiayou
Fengshan    Zhaiya, Lintong, Jinya, Gengsha, Zhongting
Donglan      Nongzhan, Simeng, Sihe, Taiping, Wulian, Sannong, Bachou, Jingu, Changle, Puoe
Bama         Nashe, Xishan, Pingdong, Dongshan, Fenghuang
Duan         Dongmiao, Gaoling, Wuzhu, Daxing, Longfu, Baoan, Yongan, Longwan, Lalei,
Jiagui, Jiudu
Dahua        Gonghe, bama, Guhe, Guwen, Jiangnan, Banlan, Bansheng, Yalong, Liuye, Liushui
GUIZHOU
Puding       Jichangpuo, Pingshang, Bulang, Houchang, Maodong
Ziyun        Sidazhai, Houchang, Dayun, Shuitang, Zongdi, Bandang
Guanling     Yongning, Gangwu, Dingying, Puli, Bangui, Xinpu, Sayun
Changshun   Dahua, Zhonghuo, Xinzhai, Yunpan, Guyang, Muhua, Jiaoma, Duncao
Luodian      Fengpeng, Naping, Muyin, Dongwang, Luosu, Luotuo, Luoyang, Yungan,
Dongdang, Pingyan, Dating, Banren, Fengting



- 226 -                               Annex 15
Qinglong     Changliu, Zhongyun, Huagong, Datian, Machang, Liangshuiying, Angu
Ceheng       Puomei, Qingping, Rongdu, Weipang, Geta, Qiaoma, Naiyan
Zhenfeng     Yinggu, Wanlan, Xiaotun, Xingbei, Changtian , Lugong
Wangmuo    Mashan, Sanglang, Xiona, Kanbian, Barao, Shitun, Yurinai
Panxian      Minzhu, Machang, Zhudong, Pugu, Mayi, Huashi, Sige, Baoji, Liuguan,
Laochang, Putian
Dafang       Dongguan, Zhuyuan, Xiangshui, Lutang, Niuchang, Gaodian, Xiaotun,
Jichang, Hetao, Daxi, Xinglong, Piaojing, Changshi, Piaowa, Yuchuong
Liuzhi       Luobie, Zhexi, Duojiao, Jingkou, Sazhi, Maokou, Suoga, Xinchang, Niuchang
Zhijin       Chengguan, Maochang, Babu, Santang, Zhucang, Xiongjiacang, Jinlong,
Shangpingzhai, Yinghe, Banqiao, HouzhaiSanjia, Puweng, Yimuo, Guanzhai,
Chadian
YUNNAN
Daguan       Yuwuan, Shanggaoqiao, Shoushan, Gaojiao
Dongchuan   Shanmu, Tuobuka, Panka, Yinmin, Shekuai
Ludian       Chuipin, Lehong, Shuoshan, Tiechang, Shuimnuo, Longshu, Xingjie
Luquan       Chuihau, Zhongpin, Sayinpan, Jiaoxi, Tanglang, Malu, Zehei, Jiulong, Zhuanlong
Qiaojia      Hongshan, Xiaohe, Liuhe, Xingdian, Qiaomaidi, Qianchang, Laodian, Mashu,
Lufang
Wuding       Fawo, Bailu, Shilata, Wande, Jiyi, Huangzhou, Dongpo
Yanjin       Xinlong, Luoyan, Tantou, Puer, Chuansi
Yiliang      Kuixiang, Shulin, Fada, Mangshan, Xiaocaoba, Lianghe, Longhai, Liushi, Wangluo
Yongshan    Jinxin, Wuji, Huanghua, Huangpin, Manan, Shuizhu, Liangfen, Maolin, Wuzai
Zhenxiong   Potou, Dawan, Linkou, Guozhu, Banqiao, Mangbu, Yuhe, Muzhuo, Lizhi, Luokan,
Huashan, Niuchang, Wude, Pinshan, Yigu, Aner, Changba



- 227 -                       CHART 1
CHINA
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Project Management Structure
LGPR |
SSB                    WBPO             Te-chnical Advisory|
Provincial Leading
Group
|Provincial PMO           Technical Advi-
sory Group
|Labor  |        Education|             Health|
|Bureau         |Bureau  ||Bureau|
Employmentj 
County Leading
Technical
Committee
County PMO
Line Agency   Line Agency       |Line Agency  Line Agency
Township Work
Station
Townhip   ownh | Village Execution
Schol  l i i       Groupsl






IBRD 26524
MorNr;oLiA    5'                                - 30r                                     10 1r                                                                        CHINA                         112        30-
=  ,t -    rh. bo.nd.-or°,'c'  d.    -1-no,nnohOi                              r WSOUTHWEST  POVERTY  REDUCTION   PROJECT
A    ond any orb., .nlnonoOon sboron or,                                   ~~~~~~~~ ~~To Wuhan/
'Th. World                                             5 o   onylrn.o'                       r       PROJECT COUNTIES AND  MUNICIPALITIES
j  notIm  laol   oN. of .., rer,tnlro
_ef.                Qll        onorseeo, -   or  =ndor r ro                                                                       |                         Project Counties
Project Municipalities
z. .    - > ma  rr   e O  tw7   hongqing  <                   Roads
-- 5 ~~~~~~ < 5\._ 2 < ~~~~~~~~S  I C  H  U  A                                                                            N                                            rLt!R-rers
Province Boundories
I -<<54/         - Seo  _   s   \S   1 4,  !  }   Inlernational Boundaries
0. _X    . 1-,O100       200           300
so~~gto 0  ~~KILOMETERS
.3¢  y _guYj''ogro  To Changsha
| ut ' |] 10ClwnWX / e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G uL Z H (  cr-,
I    To Cb.rgdu
To CGhoAgsofo
S. th                                                     ,                                                            NNNN
chno
MYANMAR \ /   i;  !    <                                                              >                  SQinwhou                  t % G U A~~~~~~~~~~H  N   A   NG
I >    Jinilhong      t                                                                         _°lngilong          ffi /                          SRong~ng
lap.
G                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26-
~~~rrr~~~~~~~ DI
(.      Chor.og         r                                                                                                  G                   el
0  Lincor ig
JDEMOCRATI          0PL   lln
02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Gtiiuo             0 nsh\n                                               oc       -    -          (
OSl8/194 G X VE  NAM
>4  t-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
%  i,0  0
MYANMAR~~~~                              A POLES                    /                                         AO
'DEMOCRATIC REPUBLICGUANDON
00                                                    oo*ooe
22'       6                                                                                               F.ngche~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O,1&95l7~1~        ob           50    r






IBRD 2662
CHINA                                                                I08'                                                       ll                                                       112'
SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                                             IH U N A N
GUANGXI PROJECT COUNTIES AND MUNICIPALITIES
77 7 Proieci Townships                             Rivers                                          G    U    I Z  H  O     U                C/ -
Project Counties                      County (Xnan) Bounadries                                                                                                                                                       26'
r        Project Munnc.pobtres           -      Prefecture Boundoaries                                                                                     Longsheng                      Quezhou)
Roads                                 Province Boundories                     t                                                                                                           r-
Railroads                             International Boundories                                                                                                   I,,_, .    Xing cns
Guaesiang n
>    fr   / _ \   /                      /        S        ~~~~~~            ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~Lngchf  Gu*nOyon;
<g lt ri 9u iio                            /          H U N A N
>     _        <                       n         > t                 !                    0         , $   ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L,r,q.  )Guilinjr-
Nondan                    H-an1ing                                                                ,Gng
,.       *,-  Langlino        ''_,_-              [LeyeO G      ^              jVt            <       j   O           Luacheeg  /                 ,              Yanprnhuv                   / O LFucyuoerg  .i    t '-
tanlin  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      "aL,,hn  Luha      \         enih
I ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       i w\                                                                                                                                Pie    () "                         K ,'i   xO w    - {) +o| -1 b's!- I
't;-  -°\ A X ' A _ OLin                                       v  j,                                               Liuiiagohn ( 9
2   Y U N- N                                                     / N"' WB /0e<                               <                         cbi    / -                                         0Zaun
X,I,n 0                       n                                                                                                    P                         He
Tiansiarrg    Tiand_ n  .'3O M~45~                  \_ g  '
D r                                                                                  (D                   Zb.ngsh.ri G O
t ~       ~~~                                                                                 OWu'rnin.goin  f=   
0-                         Long aeC                               B ^ 4 '~'  hS   /!   \   .F <   Yongnina  -  Xionilon   -°5 1      ro
2,I                                    K,              /7o
-< ^-'v                               La~bX   ~ .ngzhou          Fusu    -. Yeng;nO                                        ;- \   Yuru         h              G  UiArNdGDONG
.. . \ . > > if . \ --                                                          -0 9                    '               3,/                      anal       tLuchucnfS
-v    ._r-'   .)                                                     )           0 R      Ningrn;n  (shange0                                                                       f 
~ ~~'    r<__zC1    '  ,5!P~ - 22  S  Pinguiaeg                               n hay;lm                                  t_P)                                                        22g
. r . -->, ' ~~VIET NAM   )7   F                                               Nghn    
5    Fangchen       hongh
N'-'' '- l                                               l P  A t.^_._') IHeng
,_          I >  , _                                                                                                                                           5 ,   _  t  Beihc E]   -Gt
_ - T _. . _r..... rhaivoQnda,.er.. ms. colors denomine,ons   Wemi-ng -                S          i7!
. .] -.1 .A<;s, fend ony urher mlovrrmoarnshonvr orSun                                                                                        _                                                           it
_b, roud Bank Ornuu. airriimdonr.inh                    0         25   50      75      t0o
eN     . n   rt,*   seal  iron.s   v   ofr  leinirernsow. n'  __   _________________________ __ Y.-n-nCh
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ru',,, a6bov e:dorserreer or acueperaceuifsvcii08 KILOMETERS s
03/18/1995Snw   3L 4c1n                       u 1358 T  nh c|F|






IBRD 26525
PUDING COUNTY                                                                                                    CHINA
Proiect To.nships                              Ho.hINA
o   To-pHeadunshiprtes                                Houchng                            SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
-     Township  undqrters                  8uing                                              PUDING  COUNTY(GUIZHOU) PROJECT AREAS
County (Xian)           Ping0hn        o
Boundary    o     .
Jichongpo                             o     '                                          Projed Adminstratnie Villages       Roods
J .-2               1       F Moodong,'                                 +      Tree Crops                          Railroads
H                              /                             -1 > 3 Livestock                     e Rse
Longchang             / o                                                         Lond Improcernent                    Natural Village Boundaries                          /
/                   0      / Ba,yaro0                  Inrigation                                                            Adrninistrotine Village Baundaries
Machan|                              -                                              (i3    Schools ond Health Clinics    -   -    Tlionsshrp Boundaries                                I  f-
/             T                                                                              Drinking Water            _         County tXian) Boundary    .)                                 ,
i   N                                       Irrigation Ditches                               --/    -f
Huachuo
,         Moguan                  I                                                                __                          .                           C
,  _    7          >         /        Houcolf4g -
ZHIJING COUNTY                                                 /-1'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ +
,ho_-ngpa. 4                                                        4                                         *: d.
,4j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51/°9 'N  ri ml'                                  t ___         D1714CIJJ ;115  |Rrm 
/    -~                  ANSHUN
PUDING COUNTY                                                                  -COUNTY
Th. bo-dr,.., coin,. d-no.rnms an,d ann other- . flnnarO
or-.- h., ag do -lo .pty -n Ir parr .l The Wbrld Bnnk Grop.
Cnn udg-nn o_ IF. legal sto of ann *ortoy. o- -y -nd.rso-n
oOcIFlC o-Suh bo,ndor,.,
05/18/1995    amc          .    oe         3TP F









IMAGING
Report No:       13968 CHA
Type: SAR



