                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 26132

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                          (IDA-27440; TF-26512; CPL-39060; SCL-39066)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$47.5 MILLION

                                       AND A CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR128.6 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                            FOR A

                        SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT




                                          06/30/2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 2003)

                      Currency Unit = Yuan
                              Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                          US$ 1.00 = Y 8.3

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1    December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAE            Country Assistance Evaluation
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CCCC           China Cross-Cultural Consulting Center
CWHRDC         China Western Human Resources Development Center
DECRG          Development Research Group
DFID           Department for International Development
FCPMC          Foreign Capital Project Management Center
GX-MEDs        Guangxi Municipal Employment Development subcomponent
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LGPR           Leading Group for Poverty Reduction
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MIS            Information Management System
NBS            National Bureau of Statistics
NHEI           National Health Economics Institute
NMPRP          Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development
PMO            Project Management Office
PPA            Participatory Poverty Assessment
PPAR           Participatory Poverty Appraisal Report
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
QBPRP          Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
Strategies     China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s
SWPRP          Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
TVE            Township and Village Enterprises
UNICEF         United National International
VCMS           Village Cooperative Medical Scheme



                    Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
         Country Manager/Director:      Yukon Huang
          Sector Manager/Director:      Mark D. Wilson
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Alan L. Piazza

                                            CHINA
                             Southwest Poverty Reduction Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            38
Annex 10. Borrower's ICR Summary                                                 39
Annex 11. Village-Based Multisectoral Poverty Reduction Approach                 51
Maps IBRD 26524, 26525 and 26629

Project ID: P003639                                                      Project Name: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
Team Leader: Alan L. Piazza                                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                          Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-27440; TF-26512;
                                                                                                     CPL-39060; SCL-39066
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (40%); Other social
                            services (32%); General education sector (12%); Health (12%);
                            Central government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Rural markets (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S);
                            Gender (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/28/1993                                        Effective: 10/16/1995              10/16/1995
   Appraisal:    11/17/1994                                            MTR: 06/30/1997                10/20/1997
    Approval:    06/15/1995                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               04/30/2004

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/YUNNAN; PRC/GUIZHOU; PRC/GUANGXI
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Shahid Javed Burki - Department Director
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Joseph Goldberg - Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:             Alan L. Piazza                                 Alan L. Piazza
ICR Primary Author:             Alan L. Piazza


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:HS

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This complex and highly innovative project sought to influence national poverty reduction policy and to
address absolute poverty in some of China's most highly disadvantaged areas. The specific principal
objectives of the project were to: (a) demonstrate the effectiveness of a focused multisectoral rural
development project approach to poverty reduction, (b) facilitate a "market friendly" increase in labor
mobility from the poor areas to better off rural and rapidly growing urban areas, (c) upgrade poverty
monitoring at the national and local levels, and (d) significantly reduce absolute poverty in 35 of the very
poorest counties in southwestern China. The project also intended to stabilize or even reverse the trend of
upland environmental destruction through land and pasture improvement and soil conservation works, and
to encourage greater local community participation by enabling households to make key decisions during
project design and implementation.

These objectives were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy priorities of poverty reduction and
environmental protection. Importantly, these objectives were jointly determined through the World Bank
and the Government's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction (LGPR) collaboration on the 1992 study
"China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s" (Strategies). Through the preparation of Strategies
and its public release at the "International Conference on Poverty Issues in China" (held in Beijing in
October, 1992), close collaboration with the Government was established and the Bank has played an
increasingly active role in the development of national strategies for reducing absolute poverty. At the
conclusion of the conference, State Councilor Chen Junsheng (at that time, the Government's senior
policy-maker for agriculture, rural development, and poverty reduction) and the Country Director
announced the proposal to operationalize Strategies' recommendations for reducing poverty in the 1990s
through a Bank assisted project to reduce poverty in southwestern China. It was decided at that time that
the project would take a multisectoral approach to reducing absolute poverty in the worst affected upland
areas of Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan. Consistent with one of the principal themes of the conference, it
was also agreed that the project would encourage community participation during preparation and
implementation and that all interested international agencies, both official and nongovernmental, would be
invited to participate in project preparation, funding and implementation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives remained unchanged.1

3.3 Original Components:
The project's objectives were to be realized through the following package of multisectoral components:
(1)       Basic Education (6.7% of Appraisal total project cost). This component intended to improve
          poor children's access to elementary school education through (a) primary school renovation and
          construction, (b) support for tuition assistance and nutritional supplements for poor students, (c)
          the provision of textbooks, instructional equipment and furniture, and (d) teacher and management
          training.
(2)       Basic Health Services (5.4% of Appraisal total project cost). This component was designed to
          increase the accessibility and enhance the quality of health services provided to the poor at the
          village and township level.                   This was to occur primarily through facility construction and
          renovation, the establishment of a village cooperative health fund, training of health personnel,
          strengthening of public health programs in disease prevention and control and maternal and child
          health (MCH), and enhancing the management capabilities of health administrators at the county
          and provincial level.
1
  In June 2003, about SDR 0.9 million of the Credit was allocated to a new SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program (see Section 10). This
  program is still under implementation and not part of this ICR.



                                                                       - 2 -

(3)     Labor Mobility (29.9% of Appraisal total project cost). This highly innovative component
        sought to increase the upland poor's access to off-farm jobs through the establishment of a
        voluntary system of enhanced rural labor. The labor mobility system comprised a program of
        initial orientation, skill training through an enterprise reimbursement system, a computerized
        demand-driven job placement system emphasizing local markets, monitoring of worker safety and
        living conditions, and reporting of abuses and grievances. The labor mobility component was also
        to be supported by the Guangxi Municipal Employment Development subcomponent (GX-MEDs,
        or the "hard loan"). GX-MEDs was intended to generate employment opportunities in three
        municipalities in Guangxi (namely, Nanning, Beihai and Fangcheng) through support for a
        "poverty-reduction enterprise development zone" in Beihai, low-cost housing schemes, and
        mariculture, agriculture and tree plantation activities.
(4)     Rural Infrastructure (10.5% of Appraisal total project cost). This component intended to
        improve the poor's access to transport, drinking water, electricity and other basic services through
        the labor-intensive construction of rural roads, safe drinking water supply systems, small scale
        irrigation, agricultural drainage works, biogas digesters, and rural electrification.
(5)     Land and Farmer Development (30.0% of Appraisal total project cost).                    This major
        component was designed to increase upland agricultural productivity and reverse the trend of
        environmental degradation. Developed on a participatory basis, poor farm households were to be
        provided with a menu of crop and livestock activities to select from. In addition, the component
        supported (i) extension of improved agriculture and smallholder livestock management techniques
        and inputs, (ii) establishment of tree crop nurseries and provision of saplings and tree crop
        management extension (for high altitude and red soil varieties), (iii) intensification of staple crop
        production on the modest amount of available flat land, (iv) terracing for improved water and soil
        conservation, and (v) the support of provincial and regional applied agricultural technologies.
(6)     TVE Development (14.4% of Appraisal total project cost). This component was designed to
        augment the development of local township and village enterprises (TVE) through investment
        credit for labor-intensive commercially viable agro-processing, mineral, service and handicraft
        industries which had strong backward linkages to poor households and which met environmental
        safeguards.
(7)     Institution Building (1.7% of Appraisal total project cost). Successful implementation of this
        complex and innovative project would require strengthening all levels of the project management
        office (PMO) system. The institution building component was designed to improve the LGPR and
        PMO system's capabilities in project design and implementation, procurement, accounting, and
        monitoring and evaluation.
(8)     Poverty Monitoring (1.5% of Appraisal total project cost). This component was intended to
        improve national level poverty monitoring capability and to more objectively monitor the physical
        progress and impact of the project.       The poverty monitoring component would establish an
        objective poverty monitoring system for the project areas by using improved National Bureau of
        Statistics (NBS) survey instruments to provide a credible and comprehensive poverty profile,
        analyze the accuracy of the targeting of benefits to the absolute poor, and measure and evaluate the
        impact of the project's individual components.

3.4 Revised Components:
Two of the project components performed poorly during the initial years of implementation and were
therefore significantly revised during the latter years of project implementation. First, implementation of
the TVE development component was adversely affected by a number of difficulties including (a) relatively
cumbersome procedures and requirements necessary for the clearances of TVE proposals, (b) uncertain
ownership of the enterprises and inadequate counterpart financing, and (c) inadequate market analysis, poor
product quality, and/or collapse of the market for certain products during the enterprise proposal


                                                    - 3 -

development period (see Annex 7 Document 5.6). As a result, the TVE development component got off to
an extremely slow start during the initial years of project implementation and was substantially downsized
during the Mid-Term Review and again during the final years of project implementation. In addition,
attempts were made to improve the viability of project-supported TVE enterprises by establishing linkages
(through joint venture arrangements) to existing enterprises with stronger marketing channels, management
skills, and technical expertise. Secondly, implementation of the GX-MEDs activities in Beihai were
adversely affected by a shortage of counterpart funding, inadequate support and commitment from the
Beihai Municipal Government, and limited poverty reduction impact (see Annex 7 Document 11
"GX-MEDs Follow-Up Evaluation Report").            After several failed attempts to revitalize the Beihai
subproject, it was finally decided to cancel the Beihai subproject and redirect all the remaining IBRD funds
(about US$16.6 million) from the Beihai subproject to water resources infrastructure development (about
US$8.6 million) in the Guangxi project counties and to other agriculture activities (another US$8 million)
in Nanning and Fangcheng. The use of about US$8.6 million of the Loan for the construction of small
water cisterns ("ditou shuigui") in the upland poor counties was considered a major project innovation (see
Annex 7 Document 12 "Adjustment Plan of Guangxi Hard Loan Project").

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on the strength of (a) consistency of the project objectives with
the CAS priorities for poverty reduction and environmental protection and with the Government's stated
strategy for poverty reduction, (b) lessons learned from previous broad-based rural development projects,
(c) project design, which accounted for the institutional challenges for such a complex and innovative
operation, and (d) consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies. A Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
"Post-Approval Quality at Entry Assessment" completed in November, 1997 rated Quality at Entry as fully
satisfactory with several best practice features, citing "China's exceptional commitment to poverty
reduction and impressive implementation capacity and record," effective targeting of the poorest households
and villages, and participatory approach. The SAR thoroughly documented the project background and
highlighted the key risk factors of complexity and innovative approach. These risk factors were addressed
by the project design and plans for management and organization. Most importantly, LGPR, which was an
interministerial office of the State Council, was to be responsible for coordinating project design and,
through the provincial and county PMOs and Leading Groups, monitoring implementation.                   Project
preparation was supported by a large PHRD Grant and through collaboration with Ford Foundation and
CARE Australia. With the benefit of hindsight, quality at entry could have been even better had the
following been established prior to implementation: (a) a mechanism to more fully continue the
participatory process from the project preparation period into implementation, (b) a computerized system
for recording household loan receipts and repayments, (c) additional explicit project activities in support of
environmental protection, and (d) more user-friendly and appropriate community-based procurement
methods.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the project objectives and outputs was highly satisfactory. First, the project had a major
positive impact on national poverty reduction policy by (a) demonstrating the effectiveness of a new
multisectoral poverty reduction model in China's most severely affected areas, and (b) directly involving
senior policy makers in the design and implementation of this new model. The new integrated rural
development project approach to poverty reduction -- which the Government calls the "Southwest Project"
model -- was first extended to the 26 counties of the ongoing Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
(QBPRP), and the Chinese Government continues to extend the lessons of the "Southwest Project"
approach to the poverty reduction program throughout China's poor counties. In addition, the "Southwest"



                                                     - 4 -

model has now been adapted to northern Vietnam, and the Vietnam Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction
Project (NMPRP) became effective during late-FY02. (Staff of the SWPRP Guangxi PMO assisted in the
preparation of NMPRP, and a team of NMPRP project staff undertook a Study Tour to the SWPRP
project areas in 1999.) The Village Development Plan model advanced under SWPRP has now been
extended to 146,000 poor villages in China. The 1997 QAG review concluded that SWPRP's "actual and
potential impact at the highest policy levels can already be characterized as best practice," and the 2003
Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE, see Annex 7 Document 7) similarly identifies SWPRP as an
"outstandingly successful" poverty reduction project which "served as an example of best-practice methods
of investment for poverty reduction."

Second, the labor mobility component became a large-scale success story, with outstanding benefits for the
project's absolute poor and significant policy implications at the national level. The project assisted about
280,000 people to secure seasonal and long-term off-farm jobs. Third, NBS completed annual sample
surveys of households in project and nonproject areas, and this has helped upgrade poverty monitoring at
the national and local levels. NBS (see NBS, 2003) concluded that "SWPRP plays a very important role in
the process of China improving its poverty monitoring capacity." Fourth, available information supports
the conclusion that the project has had a strongly favorable impact on the income levels, grain and other
agricultural production, and overall well-being of the majority of project area poor households. (The NBS
survey data show per capita net income increased from Y 939 to Y 1422 and the headcount incidence of
absolute poverty declined from 32% to 13% between 1995 and 2001 in the project area. The survey data
also show that the share of the project area population with grossly insufficient grain production declined
from 18% to 9% over these same years.) Fifth, the project's environmental impact has been mostly positive
overall, and impressive achievements were made in soil conservation and increasing vegetation coverage.
Finally, while community participation -- particularly during project implementation -- was not as great as
had been desired, SWPRP certainly contributed to popularizing participatory project design and
preparation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Basic Education ($32.4 million SAR, $29.7 million actual): This component is rated highly satisfactory.
The component's key outcome was a significant increase in school attendance and an improvement in
educational quality brought about through primary school construction, the provision of tuition assistance
and school equipment, and teacher training. The NBS project survey data indicate that sixth grade
completion rates in the project area increased from 46% in 1995 to 78% in 2001. Primary school
renovation and construction targets were successfully completed in each of the three project provinces. The
improved and new school buildings have provided adequate, safe and hospitable space for village children
to attend school, and focus group discussions with project area parents, teachers and principals interviewed
have indicated that the new buildings encouraged children to attend and stay in school. Similarly, the
provision of desks, chairs, and a variety of other teaching equipment and tools has contributed to the
quality of schooling and encouraged children to attend and stay in school. In some of the poorest counties,
the provision of tuition assistance was the principal reason for increased enrollment rates. The training
activity was also very successful and the number of qualified teachers increased considerably during
project implementation. Finally, an unexpected payoff to the basic education component was that its early
implementation provided a highly favorable introduction to the project in many of the poorest and most
remote project villages. These villages became very enthusiastic about the overall project and were more
eager to access other project activities and benefits (see SWPRP Component Evaluations).

Although rated highly satisfactory, the basic education component did suffer several shortcomings and
design flaws.     First, the nutrition supplementation activity faltered during the initial years of
implementation and was finally eliminated at the time of the Mid-Term Review.                  The nutrition



                                                      - 5 -

supplementation activity was ineffective because of the complicated nature of distributing the food and
social constraints to anything but a fully equal distribution (that is, targeting only the very poorest children
for nutritional supplementation was not found to be an acceptable practice at the local level). Second, there
were also difficulties with implementation of the tuition assistance activity during the early years of the
project. Most importantly, supervision missions during the first two years of implementation found that
some of the tuition assistance in some project counties was provided to children already attending school
instead of to the families of children who were not attending school because they were too poor to cover
even the very modest costs of tuition. Third, the primary school building construction program was also
found to have some unexpected negative consequences. Although not a common occurrence, a Department
for International Development (DFID) funded Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) team found that the
construction of a primary school in a central location induced the county Education Bureau to eliminate a
"teaching point" in a distant ethnic minority village and, as a result, several ethnic minority children could
no longer attend primary school (see Annex 4 of China: Overcoming Rural Poverty).

Basic Health Services ($26.4 million SAR, $20.7 million actual): On balance, the component is rated
satisfactory. Although the basic health services component very successfully achieved its primary objective
of increasing the accessibility and enhancing the quality of health services to the poor at the village and
township level, it was not successful in establishing a village cooperative medical scheme (VCMS). The
project monitoring report indicates that the infant mortality rate declined from 5.0% to 2.0% in the Guangxi
project area and from 8.2% to 5.0% in the Guizhou project area between 1995 and 2001. The National
Health Economics Institute's (NHEI) reviews of the basic health services component in three project
counties (Lingyun and Donglan Counties in Guangxi, and Yanjin County in Yunnan) concluded that: "The
health subdivision of the project obviously improved the health care for the rural population in the project
areas and the accessibility of the farmers in poor areas to health care services. The major indicators for
population health like maternal mortality, infantile mortality and incidence of infectious diseases were
greatly improved, indicating that the health subdivision of the project has played a significant role in
relieving poverty of the population in the project areas" (see SWPRP Component Evaluations 2A and 2B).
First, the NHEI staff found that the program of facilities construction and renovation had been very
successful and achieved a remarkable improvement in basic health care infrastructure in the project area at
the local level. Second, the training program provided short-term and long-term training for large numbers
of township and village health workers leading to a sustainable increase in the quality of health care.
Third, the project counties emphasized the strengthening of maternal health care, planned immunization of
children, and the prevention and management of key diseases as key project activities, and this led to
significant decreases in the maternal mortality rate, infant mortality rate, and incidence of infectious
diseases.

Although the component made great contributions to basic health services at the local level, efforts to
establish the VCMS were not successful. The NHEI reviews laud the good intentions of the project's
VCMS experiments, and note that the severe poverty in the project areas almost certainly doomed these
experiments from the outset. Similarly, UNICEF staff found (during field visits to the project counties of
Luquan and Wuding in Yunnan in 2000) that the VCMS was not viable and that financial incentives for
medical workers in the very poorest villages were still not sufficient (even with the project's assistance) to
adequately upgrade basic health care services. Overall, it is now increasingly recognized that funding for
health services in China's rural areas is inadequate and that the problem is most severe in the poorest rural
areas. While the SWPRP basic health services component made a valuable contribution to basic health in
the project area, it did not establish a clear replicable model for upgrading basic health services on a
sustainable basis for the rural absolute poor.




                                                      - 6 -

Labor Mobility ($145.2 million SAR, $133.3 million actual): This component is rated highly
satisfactory. The key outcomes were the establishment of a voluntary system of enhanced rural labor, and
the placement of about 280,000 workers in safe off-farm employment. Placement and monitoring were
critical to the success of the component.        A powerful, extensive and flexible placement mechanism
succeeded in finding jobs for the low skill workers over the life of the project despite the rapidly changing
labor market. The extensive monitoring effort helped ensure that the workers were safe, and that any
difficulties or concerns could be quickly addressed. Because of the impressive poverty impact of the
component, which was evident even from the early years of implementation, great efforts were made to
ensure that the component benefited the very poor. In the early years of the component, there was a
tendency to target workers somewhat better off than the average. However, as implementation proceeded,
the targeting of the component improved, and the component was better able to reach the poorer villagers.
Overall, some 1798 project villages participated in the project. The high coverage rate was instrumental in
spreading the benefits of the component beyond its immediate beneficiaries. Over the life of the project,
workers who had participated in the component, returned to their villages and brought out their neighbors
and relatives, who otherwise would not have had the opportunity. The impact of the component was
impressive, and most county PMO and project township Work Station staff stated that the labor mobility
component was the single most effective poverty reduction activity in SWPRP, produced the quickest
returns, and was the component that was most warmly welcomed by the primary beneficiaries. Based on a
2% sample survey of participants in the component, workers averaged 1135 yuan per year in remittances
over the life of the project. These funds were invested in farm inputs (24%), housing (20%), children's
education (10%) and healthcare (6%). The remittances also were used to reduce the household's debt
burden (11%) and to start small businesses in rural areas (4%). In addition to the cash remittances, the
workers brought back substantial amounts of consumer goods (averaging 900 yuan per worker) to their
families.

Major efforts were made to ensure that women and ethnic minorities had adequate opportunities to
participate in the component. The success of these initiatives varied among locations, partly due to cultural
influences. All in all, the component did a good job in balancing the benefits from participating with the
particular risks inherent when these populations take off-farm jobs. Much effort was made to compare the
benefits for workers participating under the component with those who found off-farm jobs on their own
(spontaneous migration). Overall, it appears that participating in the component brought the workers
higher salaries and more stable jobs than would have been possible through spontaneous migration.

Despite the overall success of the component, a number of difficulties were encountered. The management
structure for the component was perhaps, in hindsight, somewhat detrimental to the success of the
component. The emphasis on the independence of the labor agencies meant that the component suffered
disproportionately from a shortage of counterpart funds, and from slow disbursements of project funds to
the implementing agencies. Also, the emphasis on autonomy for the labor companies, while providing some
incentive, at the same time may have distracted management from its key objectives. The overall impact of
the SWPRP project would possibly have been better if the component had been better integrated with the
main project. For example, the impact of the labor mobility component on the agriculture component was
not well-monitored, and in some (although likely the minority) of cases, the component may have
inadvertently reduced the effectiveness of the agriculture component (be reducing the amount of available
labor). In addition, the monitoring effort, while extensive, did not adequately capture the medium-term
impact on the home village. In particular, the social impact on the home village may not have been
investigated in sufficient detail. It is also unfortunate that the experiment is not replicable in other parts of
China. The high cost of setting up a reliable monitoring system has discouraged local municipalities from
using public funds to replicate the Southwest system.



                                                      - 7 -

The GX-MEDs subcomponent was a large scale experiment with creating employment opportunities for the
project area's upland poor in labor intensive enterprises in three municipalities in Guangxi. As noted in
Section 3.4 above, GX-MEDs performed poorly -- especially in Beihai Municipality -- and about 20% of
the subcomponent's funding was eventually redirected toward the construction of small on-farm water
cisterns in the project's upland counties.    Overall, GX-MEDs provided fewer job opportunities than
anticipated, the investment cost per job created was often excessive, and many of the enterprises and
activities supported were not financially viable. By comparison, using a portion of the GX-MEDs funding
for the construction of small on-farm water cisterns was highly successful. These water cisterns provide
drinking water and supplemental irrigation in the Karst mountain region, and have now been very widely
adopted (see SWPRP Component Evaluation No. 4).

Rural Infrastructure ($50.9 million SAR, $64.0 million actual): Project beneficiary interviews
consistently confirmed that the project's poor households were extremely supportive of the rural
infrastructure component and that improved access to roads, drinking and irrigation water, electricity, and
other basic infrastructure were powerful and "fast-acting" measures to improve well-being and reduce
poverty.    Unfortunately, constraints imposed by the counterpart funding mechanism and repayment
requirements adversely affected the timeliness of the physical completion of these works and limited the
total scale to considerably less than what was actually desired by the primary beneficiaries (see discussion
on counterpart funding mechanisms and loan repayment issues in Section 5.4 below). On balance, the
component is rated satisfactory, and would have certainly been rated highly satisfactory had funding and
repayment mechanisms allowed more timely completion of an expanded program of rural infrastructure.

Project rural road construction improved the flow of goods into and out of remote poor areas, and increased
the access to outside jobs, health care, and education services. Solving household water supply shortages
both improved household hygiene and living standards and reduced the time and hard labor previously
expended by (mostly) women and girls on transporting water.             Small-scale irrigation works greatly
improved food security. All of the SWPRP rural infrastructure activities had important synergistic effects
on other project activities (for example, with road access, school and health clinic construction was made
much easier and it became possible to bring in chemical fertilizer and other materials for agricultural
activities). Finally, a major innovation during the latter years of the project, led by the Guangxi PMO, was
support for natural village access roads and tracks. Typically only suitable for farm tractors, light utility
vehicles, and animal-drawn carts, these roads were built with labor volunteered by the villagers and
supported with materials and technical assistance provided through the project.

Land and Farmer Development ($145.1 million SAR, $160.3 million actual): This component is rated
satisfactory. At least 80% of project households received assistance for a very wide variety of field crops,
tree crops, and livestock activities. Some of these activities were very effective means of improving
household food security and increasing incomes. The component supported an environmentally friendly
integrated land use system, and proved that a farming population can sustain itself over the long term in
most of the Karst region of southwest China. The farmer training programs were effective overall, though
they could have been improved had specific training programs been tailored for women and young farmers.

Several factors constrained the land and farmer development component from achieving its full potential.
First, the outreach of the project to the very poorest and most remote households was delayed and never
reached the levels received by less poor households closer in to the road system. It is understandable that
local leaders and project staff either did not, or could not, reach the poorest and most remote project
villages in the first two years of the project, and a sustained push in the latter years of the project did
extend benefits to most all households and to extremely remote areas. However, much of this latter


                                                     - 8 -

assistance was limited in value, too simplistic, and not done on a participatory basis (for example, each
farm household in extremely remote villages would receive a cow in year 4 or 5 of the project). Since
ethnic minorities often reside in the most remote villages of the project areas, some ethnic minority families
did not receive an adequate or fair share of the benefits of the project. Second, many of the land and farmer
development program activities were effectively "hijacked" by the County technical bureaus who were more
interested in implementing county plans for agricultural development than providing poor households what
they really wanted. For example, a Bank supervision mission which visited an extremely remote village in
Luquan County (in Yunnan) found that most village households had been obliged to plant chestnut tree
saplings under the project because the County Forestry Bureau had a county-wide chestnut tree planting
program. However, these villagers reported to the Bank mission that they already had an adequate cash
income from growing tobacco and would have been far more interested in improving primary school
education and increasing staple crop production had they been encouraged to express their preferences.
Clearly, the technical bureaus' emphasis on county plans sometimes undermined the participatory
implementation process (see Section 5.3 below). Third, the benefits from heavy investments in a number of
tree crops in the early years of the project were not realized because (a) the quality of the planting material
was unsatisfactory, and (b) the markets for most of these tree crops were in a state of severe decline or
complete collapse due to heavy saturation of the regional or national markets for these products. Since the
land and farmer development component was the single largest project component, the impact of these three
constraints on the overall success and effectiveness of the entire project was substantial.

TVE Development ($70.1 million SAR, $42.3 million actual): This component is rated unsatisfactory.
The inadequate infrastructure base (including poor transport and telecommunications) and paucity of
technical and management skills in the project's poorest townships and villages hampers the development of
township and village enterprises in much of the SWPRP project area. For this reason, the total scale of the
TVE development component was substantially reduced during project design and preparation. With the
slow and unsuccessful implementation of the component during the first years of the project, the total scale
of the component was further reduced during the latter years of implementation (see Section 3.4 above).
While most of the medium and larger TVEs supported by the project were eventually found not to be
financially viable or to have had significant poverty reduction impacts, small scale enterprises and small
scale farmers' markets were typically far more successful. These enterprises, which were often privately
owned, provided goods and services for the local market and relied on simple technologies. Most of these
enterprises were found to be financially viable, have had favorable poverty reduction and local fiscal
impacts, and have provided marketing channels for farm and other products produced by the poor.

Medium and larger scale TVEs (that is, in the context of the SWPRP project area, enterprises with
investments of Y 2 million or more) supported by the project faced several important constraints. First,
with the takeoff of light industrial production throughout China, the SWPRP TVEs had to compete with
much better funded enterprises with superior technology, management, and marketing systems. Second,
most of these enterprises found the approval and clearances process and procurement procedures to be very
time consuming, confusing and difficult. Third, there were conflicts of interest among the shareholders of
larger enterprises. Fourth, the strengthening of the Government's regulations on worker safety and
environmental protection restricted the existence of township and village mining and mineral processing
enterprises. Fifth, the shortage of funding often left these enterprises without sufficient working capital to
undertake full production, and thereby crippled attempts to reach a profitable scale of production.
Unfortunately, expecting to be able to augment fiscal revenues, most project County PMOs (which were all
closely linked to the County Governments) were inclined to use SWPRP to support only these medium and
larger scale enterprises. Experience suggests that most of these enterprises were not financially viable,
became a drain on county fiscal resources, and had little or no sustained poverty reduction impact. The
unsatisfactory performance of the TVE development component (see Annex 7 Document 5.6) does not


                                                     - 9 -

mean that enterprise development cannot play an important role in poverty reduction, but does strongly
indicate that a different approach should be adopted.

Institution Building ($8.2 million SAR, $6.1 million actual): This component is rated highly satisfactory.
It was recognized at the outset of preparation that successful implementation of this innovative
multisectoral project would be dependent upon greater-than-average institutional capacity, and that existing
capabilities and organizational strengths were limited and already stretched. It was therefore determined
that a stand alone institution building component was essential. The project's legal documents included (a)
the standard requirement that the central and provincial PMOs "would be staffed at levels, and maintained
with functions and responsibilities, acceptable to the Bank Group," and (b) a special requirement to
establish a monitoring and reporting system for the labor mobility component. Adequate project support
for capacity and institution building, coupled with extraordinarily strong support and leadership from the
highest levels of the Central Government, led to a rapid buildup of preparation and implementation capacity
at all levels (from the Central PMO all the way down to project township and village Work Stations). The
outcome was a highly capable and complete PMO system with intense ownership and commitment to the
project concept and successful implementation.        With the establishment of quality work space and
equipment early on in the project cycle, combined with training opportunities and a clear sense that the
project was being closely watched by senior Central Government staff, the PMOs at all levels were able to
attract and retain very capable and highly motivated staff. The highly effective PMO system became a
model for the remainder of the poverty reduction program in the three project provinces and, eventually,
throughout the country. Staff of the Central and provincial PMOs have stated that the strong institution
building component was one of the best "ideas" of the project conceptualization process.

Poverty Monitoring ($7.1 million SAR, $7.2 million actual): This component is rated highly satisfactory.
In 1992, Strategies highlighted the need to upgrade China poverty monitoring system: "It is essential that
an independent and objective poverty monitoring system be established and the true location of the poor be
more accurately determined as soon as possible. Fortunately, the State Statistical Bureau has both the
necessary data and skills to undertake objective monitoring of the incidence of poverty." Achieving this key
recommendation was the objective of the SWPRP poverty monitoring component. With ongoing technical
assistance of DECRG staff, the NBS undertook annual sample surveys of project and non-project
households throughout the implementation period. The outcome was a very significant increase in NBS'
poverty monitoring and analysis capability and an unusually good data base for detailed project monitoring
and evaluation. The SWPRP Component Evaluation Paper No. 7 (see Annex 7 Document 5.7) notes:
"Significantly, the SWPRP poverty monitoring exercise provided the impetus for China to establish a
nationwide poverty monitoring system. Since 1997 China has conducted a national poverty survey that
covers all nationally designated poor counties. This national poverty monitoring system was modeled on
and drew heavily from the experience of the SWPRP. Staffing of the national poverty monitoring offices at
the central and provincial levels also has drawn from the SWPRP personnel. Questionnaire design,
sampling and data collection build on methods developed under the SWPRP. Following the model of the
SWPRP monitoring reports, the NBS has published an annual Poverty Monitoring Report of Rural China
since 2000. In this regard the SWPRP Monitoring Component has had an impact that goes far beyond the
project itself."

The poverty monitoring component could have been improved through greater and earlier emphasis on the
establishment of an information management system (MIS) for monitoring all aspects of the physical
progress of the project. The project MIS system was intended to be separate and distinct from the NBS
poverty monitoring work, was included in the project design and sufficient funding for this activity was
provided for under the institution building component, and the Guangxi PMO did eventually develop an
excellent "computerized household loan management system." However, the Guangxi MIS system was


                                                    - 10 -

fully established only in the latter years of project implementation and was not effectively extended to the
other project provinces. Project implementation, monitoring and evaluation would have been significantly
enhanced by the establishment of a good MIS system (similar to that developed by the Guangxi PMO)
prior to implementation in all three project provinces.

Status of Women and Female Participation. The project helped project area women and girls overcome
poverty and improve their well-being, but should have focused more intensively on gender issues. The
April 2003 SWPRP Participatory Poverty Assessment Report (PPAR) found that all of the project
activities benefited women and girls and, in particular, that the project directly assisted with improving
girls' education, providing training to women teachers and rural women medical workers, and strengthening
maternal and child health care services. However, the PPAR also found that women's work load in rural
areas was excessive and increasing, there were only limited efforts to plan special assistance activities for
project female beneficiaries, and that project area women did not have equal access to agricultural
technology training activities and project loans. While participation in project activities was always on a
completely voluntary basis, the PPAR's women's forums found that participation in some project activities
pushed women's work load beyond sustainable levels.

Ethnic Minorities. Ethnic minorities comprise less than 10 percent of China's population, but are heavily
overrepresented among China's absolute poor.           The project directly targeted poor ethnic minority
townships and villages, and ethnic minority people comprise more than half of the total beneficiary
population. The PPAR found that ethnic minority project beneficiaries believed that the project had greatly
helped them overcome poverty, and that ethnic minorities had participated in all project activities.
However, the PPAR found four areas where the project could have improved its outreach to the most
disadvantaged ethnic minority people.        First, some minority-specific cultural values restricted their
participation, and more creative means should have been devised to better include these groups in the
project.   Second, some of the most disadvantaged ethnic minorities were deemed to be too poor to
participate in project activities. Third, in some cases ethnic minority people did not participate because
they were afraid of taking on the responsibility of loan repayment. Lastly, education attainment levels
among some ethnic minority groups are relatively low and they could not fully benefit from agricultural
technology training. Overall, the PPAR found that better methods of reaching the ethnic minority groups
could have further improved the project's success in improving the well-being of these project beneficiaries.
In addition, the PPAR suggests that the project should strive to better understand and adopt ethnic minority
villages' own view of what well-being and development are: "Any poor community has its own criteria of
value for the judgment of poverty and happiness, and the project vision drawn up by the project planners is
probably not the entire happy life desired by the poor communities."

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As evidenced by a variety of available data, the project achieved substantial economic and social benefits.
These data consistently confirm the improvements of a series of key monitoring indicators. For example,
the incidence of poverty in the project area declined from 31.5% in 1995 to 12.9% in 2001, and per capita
income in the project area increased from 939.5 yuan to 1422 yuan during the same period. Project
villages outperformed the non-project villages in many aspects, while the latter generally enjoyed much
better initial conditions than that of project villages. The beneficiaries obtained more development
opportunities as evidenced by enhanced market participation, the strengthened ability to manage risks,
increased girls' enrollment rate, and the reduced gender disparity:




                                                     - 11 -

            poverty       p.c.        food          p.c.           % village with access         gender     labor
          incidence     income      security*      saving                                        gap**   migration
              (%)        (yuan)       (%)          (yuan)    electricity   road    telephone      (%)        (%)

 1995        31.5         939.5       17.7          93.2        75.2       82.3      37.2          86         7.9
 2001        12.9       1,422.1        4.0         351.9        99.0       99.0      74.0          97        12.5

 *   food security is measured by the percentage of population with per capita grain production less than 150 kg/year;
 ** gender gap is measured by the ratio of girls' enrollment rate over boys' enrollment rate for the age group of 7-15
    years old.

Project costs and benefits have been quantified for the five major components of (a) education, (b) labor
mobility, (c) rural infrastructure (for the irrigation subcomponent), (d) land and farmer development, and
(e) TVE development (for the rural market construction subcomponent). Total investment for these five
major components accounts for about 75% of total project investment. Based on these five components,
the overall economic rate of return (ERR) to the project, under several quite conservative assumptions, is
estimated to be around 34%. All calculations are based on actual numbers and under several conservative
assumptions. Therefore, the estimated ERRs for most components can reasonably be considered to be the
lower bound of the real ERRs. As shown below, the results indicate that the labor mobility, rural
infrastructure, and land and farmer development components have higher ERRs than other components.
This is consistent with the field observations and results from various economic and social assessments.
Detailed explanations and calculations, including methodologies, specific assumptions, crop budgets, and
activity models are provided in Annex 3 of this ICR and the project files (see Annex 7 Document 14).

             Project as    Education            Labor                 Rural          TVE          Land and farmer
   ERR         whole                           mobility          infrastructure                    development
   ICR         34%            18%          More than 50%               20%           16%               42%
   SAR         36%            n.a.         More than 50%               n.a.        32-45%              40%



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No effort was made to separately estimate the financial rate of return (FRR). Following more than two
decades of market-oriented economic reform, price distortions in China have been largely eliminated. In
addition, an integrated domestic market has been established and the domestic market is increasingly
integrated with the international market. The SAR found no significant difference between the economic
and financial rates of return for the three project components examined. On this basis, it is believed that
the estimated ERRs are representative of the FRRs.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high. Project preparation was preceded by Strategies,
which was a collaboration between the Bank and LGPR's senior policy makers on China's national poverty
reduction program. These senior policy makers were then directly involved in the work of project design
and implementation. The 1997 QAG Review (see Annex 7 Document 2) found this policy and institutional
development impact to be best practice (see Section 4.1 above), and many of the recommendations and
policy initiatives of Strategies and SWPRP are now explicitly included in the Government's principal
poverty reduction program pronouncements. For example, the "National Seven Year Plan for Poverty
Reduction" calls for strengthening the institutions responsible for implementing poverty reduction projects
and programs, the concentration of available funding in the poorest counties, improved access for the poor
to outside employment opportunities, greater investment in basic education and health services, and
continued investment in poor-area basic infrastructure and agriculture. The SWPRP poverty reduction




                                                        - 12 -

project approach has now become part of the foundation of national poverty reduction policy. In addition,
the SWPRP poverty monitoring component greatly strengthened the NBS' poverty monitoring and analysis
capability (see Section 4.2 above).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of government and the implementing agency had a mostly favorable impact on
project implementation. Most importantly, China's continuing strong economic growth in all years since
the beginning of project implementation provided a highly positive environment for all of the poverty
reduction activities supported by the project.      For example, robust economic growth in the coastal
provinces and in the project provinces provided ample employment opportunities for the labor mobility
component to be successful. Regional and provincial large scale transport projects, including road, rail, air
and water transport, were also undertaken during the project implementation period. This greatly improved
transport capacity and provided additional job opportunities in the project area. The completion of the
Nanning (Guangxi) to Kunming (Yunnan) railway in 1998 was particularly important.

Project implementation was adversely affected by some natural disasters, including earthquakes in Yunnan
and unusually cold weather in Guangxi. However, the impact of these natural disasters was generally
modest, temporary, and localized. Declining market prices also adversely affected the profitability of a
number of the project's agricultural products. The profitability of the production of silk, tea, and some
livestock products was sharply reduced by adverse market price swings, but the price swings and loss of
profitability for these crops was generally only temporary. However, severe overproduction at the local
and national levels led to protracted and even catastrophic price declines for some tree crop and medicinal
products -- including some fruits (such as litchi), some nuts (such as chestnut), and some other niche
products (such as eucommia and gallnut).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The influence of factors subject to government and implementing agency control was mostly favorable.
Most importantly, the government and implementing agency maintained its strong commitment to effective
poverty reduction throughout the period of project preparation and implementation. This strong
commitment and the high priority attached to successful implementation was essential to overcoming the
many obstacles which confronted the project during the initial years of project implementation. For
example, a key implementation obstacle during the first year of implementation was the difficulty of
coordinating and integrating the wide variety of project activities to be undertaken by the many technical
bureaus involved. The strong leadership of the central and provincial governments and implementing
agency, and the high profile they gave to the project, was essential to overcoming this problem of "bureau
coordination." Similarly, the national program in support of achieving universal basic education provided a
strong foundation for the project's basic education component.

Some factors subject to government control adversely affected project implementation and outcome. Most
importantly, the government's emphasis on cost recovery led to a bias during the project design stage in
favor of those activities which were believed to be most likely to generate cash returns and against those
activities which were perceived to have little or no likelihood of providing recoverable cash returns. This
bias probably explains the government's preference, for example, for investments in larger scale TVEs and
tree crops (which, in fact, did not generally result in the desired cash and fiscal revenues), and aversion to
investments in basic education, basic health, and rural infrastructure.




                                                     - 13 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The entire project management system was very strong and contributed greatly to successful project
outcomes.     In particular, the Central PMO and the Guangxi PMOs' performances were excellent.
Performance at the county and lower levels was also exemplary, and steadily improved with assistance
from the institution building component. In most cases, supervision missions found that county, township,
and village level project staff were extremely dedicated to quality implementation. These staff's dedication
to the well-being of the local population (and SWPRP's primary beneficiaries) was admirable. The PMO
system developed a practice of "cross-supervision," under which provincial and county project staff
regularly supervised the implementation performance of other project provinces and counties, which proved
to be a very effective learning tool.

In some limited number of cases, however, county PMOs were inadequately staffed and delegated too much
control and responsibility to county technical bureaus. This facilitated the "hijacking" of project
components and contributed to the erosion of the participatory process during implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual project costs were US$463.6 million, or about 5 percent less than the SAR estimate. This small
difference is mostly explained by fluctuations in the Dollar/SDR and Dollar/Yuan exchange rates. As
noted in Section 3.4 above, budget reallocations during implementation moved funding from the poorly
performing TVE development component and GX-MEDs activities to increased scale and new activities
under the land and farmer development and rural infrastructure components.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall project sustainability is rated highly likely, but varies considerably between the project's policy
objectives and by component. The sustainability of the core policy objective (that is, of influencing
national poverty reduction policy, as discussed in Section 3.1 above) is highly likely since the key reforms
are now clearly part of government policy. The recent "Outline of China's Rural Poverty Alleviation"
("Outline") reconfirms the government's support for a comprehensive development approach to poverty
reduction and calls for the "actively expand labor export from poverty-stricken areas." The Outline also
calls for "enhancing the statistical and monitoring work in poverty reduction and development" and it is
clear that the NBS has taken a lead role in the annual assessments of poverty in China.

It is also very likely that the achievements of several project components will be sustained. First, the
government is now firmly committed to universal basic education through sixth grade, and it seems very
unlikely that the improvements in educational attainment in the project area would be allowed to diminish.
Instead, the question now appears to be whether universal ninth grade education can be realized in the
project area. Second, the labor mobility patterns established through the project are expected to be
maintained and even expand over time. Although the fate of the project organizations which supported the
labor mobility component during implementation is uncertain, the villagers who took advantage of the labor
mobility component have established links to outside enterprises where they and other villagers will
continue to seek off-farm employment. Third, many of the land and farmer development component
activities, such as the adoption of improved varieties of staple foods and the extension of "fodder trees,"
will certainly continue. Similarly, most rural roads and village tracks built under the project will be
maintained by the villagers who so greatly benefit from the improved access to transport.




                                                     - 14 -

On the other hand, it is anticipated that some project activities may not be sustained beyond the
implementation period. Most troubling, it seems likely that much of the improvement in basic health care
services will deteriorate without continued government support. Although the medical workers trained
through the project will not lose their skills, the lack of adequate financial incentives may cause them to
move to better off areas. Village health clinics will likely be maintained, but funding for medicines will be
curtailed and medicines and health services may become too expensive for the poorest villagers. Second,
some of the rural infrastructure established under the project may not be well maintained. While China has
a demonstrated ability to maintain roads, it is less certain that community drinking water facilities will be
properly maintained. Efforts to establish proper maintenance practices and funds during the period of
project implementation were not always successful. Lastly, the markets for some of the tree crops and
other niche agricultural products supported under the project have already experienced sustained declines
or even collapsed (see Section 5.1 above), and these activities are certainly not sustainable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements vary widely by province and even by project county. In Guangxi, most project
counties have worked out arrangements by which a portion of the funds recovered from project activities
can be used by the existing county PMOs for continuing poverty reduction work. In Yunnan, it was not
possible to formalize these arrangements and cost recovery has been very limited. It appears likely,
therefore, that the Yunnan county PMOs will be reabsorbed into the county governments and that little or
no recovered funds would be available to extend the project activities beyond the formal completion of
project implementation. It appears likely that many of the provincial PMO staff will be reabsorbed into the
provincial governments and the provincial PMOs downsized. However, one of the key lessons of SWPRP
has been the cost-effectiveness of enhanced supervision of poverty reduction expenditures, and provincial
and local level supervision is being strengthened within and outside the project area. Therefore, many of
the poverty reduction activities supported by SWPRP will continue in the project provinces with
government financial support under the leadership and management of strengthened poverty reduction
institutions through their regular operations.     The Central PMO -- FCPMC -- has now achieved a
self-sustaining level of operation, and has increasing contacts with a wide variety of international and
multilateral donors. FCPMC will therefore continue beyond the SWPRP implementation period.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated highly
satisfactory. Following on the recommendations of Strategies and supported by a PHRD Grant (of about
US$1.2 million, and which was Bank executed), the Bank's preparation team was able to meet the
challenge of assisting with the preparation of this complex and highly innovative project. Ford Foundation,
CARE Australia, and the New Zealand Government provided extremely valuable assistance during the
earliest stages and throughout project preparation and appraisal. Most of the Bank's preparation team
could undertake their work in Chinese, and spent much of their project preparation time at the village and
household level gaining a more in depth understanding of the problems and possible solutions. The single
important shortcoming of the preparation effort was the failure to complete the Environmental Assessment
work prior to appraisal. This delayed the overall project preparation process (an additional small mission
was required), and the problem should have been anticipated and avoided from the outset.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project is rated satisfactory. There has been an
unusual continuity of the Bank team, with most of the core team having been maintained from the start of
preparation through the final supervision mission, and there were two full supervision missions during each



                                                     - 15 -

year of implementation. During the first years of implementation, the Bank supervision missions were
comprehensive, and adequately covered all project components and safeguard requirements. The Bank
team's relationship with staff of all levels of the PMO system was excellent, and a close collaboration on
the common objectives of the project was maintained and expanded throughout the implementation period.
Unfortunately, with limited funding for supervision of rural projects in China, and growing demands on the
task team's time to prepare other projects, the comprehensiveness of the supervision effort faltered during
the latter years of implementation. Most importantly, because of supervision funding constraints, the Bank
supervision missions during the middle and latter years of implementation did not adequately cover the
education, health, participatory process, impact and environmental monitoring, and financial management
aspects of the project.    Although this problem was successfully addressed in final three supervision
missions when the team did include education, health and social specialists, overall project implementation
would have been even better had adequate supervision budgets been available for this complex project and
the Bank supervision missions been comprehensive in all years.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance during project preparation, appraisal and implementation is rated
satisfactory. With the exception of a few of the latter years of implementation, the Bank's team was
comprehensive and included the required expertise to adequately supervise the project. Most of the Bank's
core team was maintained from the beginning of preparation through the completion of implementation, and
the Bank team's collaboration with the staff of the PMO system was consistently excellent. This allowed
for the rapid identification of project implementation difficulties and issues. Working closely with the
PMO system, these problems and issues were successfully overcome one-by-one during the first years of
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of this project is assessed to be highly satisfactory. During
the early stages of preparation, staff of the Central PMO greatly facilitated the process by boiling down the
project's core objectives and "principles" (that is, an early prototype of the project logframe) into a
summary eight page document. With the assistance of a Technical Advisory Group (funded from the
PHRD Grant), the project design was completed on a timely basis with adequate coverage of the technical,
financial, economic, institutional, environmental and social factors. Although participatory project design
was not yet popular in China at the time of project preparation, the Central and provincial PMOs
energetically supported this concept. Senior government leaders strongly supported the project preparation
process at all times, and this leadership proved essential to the successful preparation of this challenging
project. The only significant flaw in Borrower's project preparation effort was the failure to bring capable
procurement staff -- with a detailed hands-on understanding of Bank procurement guidelines -- into the
Central and provincial PMOs during the preparation stage.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated highly satisfactory. Senior members of the central and
provincial governments provided strong support and leadership to the project throughout the
implementation period. In a reportedly unprecedented step, the October 1995 SWPRP Implementation
Work Conference (a) received a letter from President Jiang Zemin, (b) was chaired by a State Councilor
(Chen Junsheng), and (c) required the attendance of the Governor (not the Vice Governor) of the three
project provinces and the Directors (not Vice Directors) of the bureaus and agencies involved in project
implementation. Known in the SWPRP project circle as the "Three Firsts," this exceptional Project Launch
clearly established that successful implementation of the project would be carefully monitored and
supported by the highest levels of government. One of the key lessons learned (see Section 8 below) from



                                                      - 16 -

SWPRP is that this strong central and provincial government support and leadership was the key to
successful preparation and implementation. A significant shortcoming of Government implementation
performance was that counterpart funding was not always made available on a timely basis. Inadequate
counterpart funding was a significant constraint in Yunnan and Guizhou.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PMO system at all levels (that is, the "implementing agency") is rated highly
satisfactory. Overall, the PMO system did an excellent job of responding to the many challenges inherent
to preparing and implementing such a complex and novel project. As discussed in Section 5.3 above, the
dedication of the PMO staff at all levels to successful implementation and a real improvement in the
well-being of the project's primary beneficiaries is admirable. Nevertheless, there were some actions which
could have been taken which could have further enhanced the performance of the PMO system. For
example, the Yunnan PMO's effectiveness was hampered at times by the repeated changes in its Director in
the early years of implementation, and by the failure to make a firm "yes or no" decision on the Fengguo
Irrigation Canal scheme in the project's first years. As discussed in Section 5.3 above, the effectiveness of
some county PMOs was diminished when too much responsibility and record keeping was turned over to
county technical bureaus.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated highly satisfactory.             SWPRP was a complex
multisectoral project which pushed the envelope in several directions. Most importantly, the labor mobility
component, the focus on participatory design, and the emphasis on improving poverty monitoring must be
considered to have been highly innovative in China in the early-1990s. Given this broad and innovative
agenda, it was inevitable that initial implementation would be problematic. The Borrower accepted the
challenge of preparing and implementing this project, overcame all of the initial implementation problems,
and deserves recognition for a job well done. The State Council's LGPR played the single most important
role in successfully meeting this challenge. The project would not have been successful without LGPR's
very strong and consistent support throughout the entire project cycle.

8. Lessons Learned

Although the project was highly satisfactory overall, at least as much can be learned from the project's
shortcomings as from its achievements.

Positive Lessons.

Government Support. Perhaps the most important lesson is that, with strong support from the central and
local governments, this multisectoral poverty reduction model can be made to work even in the poorest and
most disadvantaged areas.      Fortunately, the Central Government at the highest levels and the State
Council's LGPR provided strong support and leadership for the project. This support was matched by the
institution building component which strengthened the project management system at all levels (from the
Central PMO down to the township and village Work Stations). This strong sustained support from the
highest levels coupled with the hard work of the strengthened PMO system at all levels has been essential to
the successful preparation and implementation of SWPRP. As stated in Section 7.7 above, the project
would not have been successful without LGPR's very strong and consistent support throughout the entire
project cycle.

Synergy. There was good synergy from bringing in a great variety of poverty reduction activities down to
the township and village level. In particular, early provision of support for basic education and health (in



                                                     - 17 -

the form of new classrooms and health clinics, training for teachers and health workers, and tuition
assistance and increased incomes for health workers, etc.) extended the outreach of the project to the
poorest villages and greatly encouraged those villagers to participate in all other aspects of the project.
There was a real organizational and management cost to providing such a wide range of benefits to the
poor, but the PMO system rose to this challenge and found that the benefits and synergy from a
multisectoral approach outweighed these costs.

Effectiveness of Greater Supervision and Management.              The project quickly illustrated that the
effectiveness and efficiency of rural poverty reduction activities can be greatly enhanced through more
support, supervision and management by the central and provincial levels of government. The active
involvement of higher levels of government in the allocation and utilization of poverty reduction funding
can greatly enhance its effectiveness, and a certain portion of poverty reduction program funding should be
allocated to independent and rigorous supervision and monitoring of the use of those funds. In particular,
the Directors of the provincial PMOs directly experienced improved results from strengthened supervision
and monitoring under SWPRP, and they moved to extend this strengthened supervision system to poverty
reduction work province-wide.

"Negative" Lessons.

False Expectations and Funding Mechanisms Lead to Design and Implementation Distortions. During
SWPRP design and implementation, a number of less effective poverty reduction activities were pushed
forward too forcefully and did not achieve the desired poverty reduction impact. Most notably, these
ineffective activities included some (or even most) tree crops and rural enterprises. It seems that the
inappropriately strong support for these activities stemmed from the ready availability of counterpart
funding for these activities, the false expectation that these activities would produce cash returns at the
farm and local level, and/or the old approach of top-down planning. At the same time, there has been
inadequate support for some of the project activities which have been particularly well received by project
beneficiaries and had the greatest poverty reduction effect. Such activities include all sorts of rural
infrastructure and the applied agricultural research necessary to determine and prepare agricultural
activities most suitable to the mountainous areas where most of China's absolute poor reside. It seems that
the weak support for such activities has been a result of the inadequate availability of counterpart funding
for these activities, uncertainty about how these funds would be repaid, and inadequate support for the
participatory approach during implementation. The lesson is that funding and repayment arrangements
should be designed so that (a) the project beneficiaries receive what they themselves say they want, and (b)
the scale of the most cost-effective poverty reduction measures is not reduced or eliminated solely because
it is difficult to determine who or what level of government should repay.

Participatory Approach. Participatory project design and preparation was excellent and path breaking for
its time. Unfortunately, the focus on community empowerment and the participatory approach was allowed
to subside during implementation, and in some cases was overruled by county technical bureaus used to
top-down planning.        It is essential that mechanisms be developed to ensure that villages and poor
households have more direct control over decision making during program implementation and that the
participatory process continue into implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

Ethnic Minorities. Ethnic minorities comprise an ever greater share of China's remaining absolute
poverty, and their needs, aspirations, and background are often quite distinct from majority culture.
Although SWPRP gave great emphasis to assisting ethnic minorities, careful analysis at the village level
has shown that the most disadvantaged and poorest ethnic minorities did not always receive a fair share of
project benefits. It is essential that better mechanisms be developed to ensure that ethnic minorities have


                                                     - 18 -

full access to the entire range of project benefits and, in particular, that ethnic minority villages be in
charge of their own project design, preparation and implementation.

Basic Health. China has recognized the serious problem of the inadequacy of the public health care system
in rural areas. This problem and its consequences are particularly severe in the poorest rural areas. China
is now organizing a response to the inadequacy of the rural health care system, but a special program must
be established to improve public health in the poorest rural areas. Given the extreme challenges of
improving access to basic health services in the poorest areas, the health component of a multisectoral
poverty reduction project such as SWPRP should receive special attention and support from the Central
Ministry of Health.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As the first integrated large-scale and trans-regional poverty reduction project that directly targeting the
poor farmer cooperated by the Chinese Government and the World Bank, the China Southwest Poverty
Reduction Project (SWPRP) is considered a very successful one. Its design demonstrates the mainstream of
anti-poverty theme nowadays. Under the strong leadership of Chinese Government and the sincere
collaboration of relevant departments and agencies, the project has achieved the planned objectives through
the great effort of project management agencies and the active participation of the broad poor farmers as
well. The success of the project has provided instructive experiences in poverty reduction models,
institutional innovation and other aspects, which have been used for China's poverty alleviation and
development strive since nineties of last century and the formulation of poverty reduction policies for the
new century. In addition, the project has greatly improved the development environment and the production
and living conditions of the poor farmers in the project area, as well as contributed the income increasing of
the poor. The major achievements of the project can be illustrated as follows:
-   Both the enrollment and completion of primary education have enjoyed a remarkable raise from 89% of
    year 1995 to 93% of year 2001 and from 46% of year 1997 to 76% of 2001 separately;
-   Because of the project implementation, the basic preventive health care service in the project areas is
    upgraded. Altogether there are 1727 poor villages realized the "Four Possessions", e.g. every village
    has a health post of more than 50 square meters, which are equipped with essential clinical equipment
    and basic medicine and the servicing staffs master basic medical techniques. 3504 health staffs from
    townships and villages and 3499 birth attendants received training;
-   The project constructed 2349 km of rural road and 1398 km of rural power transmission lines. The
    water drinking problem for over 830,000 people and more than 300,000 animals has been solved
    through construction of various water facilities such as family water tanks, public water ponds and
    water storage cellars. The construction of water conservancy works including irrigation, flood control,
    soil and water conservation facilities as well as the improvement of existing reservoirs guarantees the
    newly enlarged irrigated areas up to 13136 ha;
-   Households cash income and grain occupation has been also dramatically increased due to development
    of labor migration and agricultural production activities. The farmers' net income per capita has been
    raised from RMB 939 in 1995 to RMB 1422 in 2001, the percentage of farm households with grain
    occupation per capita less than 150 kg has also decreased from 17.7% to only 8.7%, the problem of
    "lack of cash and food" nagged the local poorest households in a long period in the project area has
    been basically solved.
-   Through 7 years project implementation, the poor population in the project area has been reduced
    greatly and poor situation is also dramatically changed. From 1995 to 2001, the poverty headcount rate
    is decreased from 31.5% to 12.9%, and the rate of weighted poverty gap fell down from 1.23 to 1.04,
    while the rate of poverty gap dropped from 5.8 to 3.



                                                    - 19 -

The preparation and implementation of SWPRP has produced a wide impact upon several aspects below:
-  The innovation and exploration conducted in the aspect of planning methodology, project management
   and monitoring providing some good experiences and lessons for formulation of China Poverty
   Reduction and Development Strategy in the new century;
-  Various project activities bring direct benefits to the ethnic minorities households due to the most of the
   project areas located in the ethnic minorities concentrated area where their population counts for more
   than 50% of the total local population;
-  Some of project activities are planned for directly benefiting women, such as providing health care for
   pregnant and delivery women in the health component, stipulating certain proportion of women's
   participation in various training programs and giving priority to girls in regarding to the tuition
   assistance. All these efforts through the project implementation have brought lots of positive impacts
   on women;
-  The project has produced long-term effect on capacity building at three levels: firstly, the institutional
   capacities and working skills of poverty reduction and project management agencies at the central,
   provincial and county level have been enhanced and improved; secondly, the capacity of
   self-management, self-organization and self-development of the poor communities has been upgraded;
   lastly, the overall quality of the farmers and their productive skills has been also increased;
-  At the same time, some project activities were designed specifically aiming at the ecological
   environment recovery and to relieve the environmental pressure, some exciting achievements is resulted
   in the aspects of soil protection and vegetation cover increasing, which has produced a positive impact
   on local environment.

The lessons learned from the design and implementation of SWPRP:
-  Project design could be improved in a more scientific and operational-oriented way. Such as: (1) when
   education posts were programmed, the impact on building central schools brought by conduction of
   family planning policy and construction of village road should be taken into full consideration; (2) as
   for the issues of in-school supplementary nutrition, exemption and reduction of tuition and book fees as
   well as establishment of village cooperative health care foundation, detailed studies should be given on
   policy background and the effectiveness of implementation conditions; (3) low unit prices for part of
   project works, high proportion of self-collected funds brought difficulties on project implementation as
   well as post management;
-  During the design stage, the project counties were requested to provide 25% of the counterpart funds.
   In fact, all these poor counties are financial deficit and not possible to fulfill the task, which affected
   the implementation progress and project quality to some extent;
-  Flexibility should be adopted during the project implementation so that to fit in with the change of the
   market;
-  The role of TVEs development in poverty reduction should be reconsidered and discussed. As for the
   only unsuccessful sub-component in SWPRP, there are many lessons and experiences to be summed
   up. Except the impact of the national policies, we should also be concerned about following issues: (1)
   small-scaled rural market should be established in the project area for promoting commodities
   circulation; (2) project scope should not be over large; (3) the enterprises established should meet the
   requirement of environmental protection and the state industry development policies; (4) the enterprises
   ownership should be clear and definite; (5) the overall arrangements on the issues of operating funds
   and credit guarantees for the enterprises should be planed as a whole; (6) in consideration of ensuring
   raw materials supply, development of the processing enterprises with close relevance of local
   agricultural production should be encouraged; (7) the purchasing procedures should be further
   simplified.




                                                     - 20 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
none

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
none

(d) External Reviewer:




                                             - 21 -

- 22 -

- 23 -

10. Additional Information

SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program

The amount of IDA financing used for the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project was about US$1.2 million
less than the amount estimated at appraisal. This modest reduction in costs stems from exchange rate
changes during implementation and per unit cost savings achieved by the beneficiaries. In 2003, the
Borrower and IDA agreed to use these cost savings to support a SARS and Infectious Diseases Response
Program in China. In combination with savings reallocated from several other projects and in collaboration
with other donors, the SARS and Infectious Diseases Response Program in China will (a) address
emergency needs for SARS-related diagnosis, clinical management, and personal protection that are
necessary to bring the current epidemic fully under control, and (b) support the Government's efforts to
strengthen the capacity of the public health system more generally so that China's health system is prepared
to combat the possible re-emergence of SARS and, equally important, similar infectious disease threats that
might occur in the future. The reallocation for the SARS Program was approved by the Board on June 19,
2003. This ICR for SWPRP will be supplemented by an assessment of the implementation of the SARS
Program that will be carried out within six months of the revised closing date of the Credit, in April 2004.




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:

               Indicator/Matrix                                   Baseline                                End of Project
A.) Poverty Reduction Model: (1) Establish      Approach did not exist.                    Approach adopted as a national policy under
a focused multisectoral rural development                                                  the National Poverty Reduction Plan
project approach to poverty reduction in                                                   (2001-2010).
China.

A.) (2) extend this model to China's other      Model did not exist.                       Model extended nationwide.
poor counties.

B.) Reduce Poverty: Bring as many as            Poverty incidence: 31%                     Poverty incidence: 12.9%
possible of the project's primary beneficiaries Per capita income: 939.5                   Per capita income: 1422.1
out of absolute poverty as indicated by (3) per
capita income levels above the poverty line

B.) (4) greater than subsistence levels of      Percentage of population with per capita   Percentage of population with per capita
grain production.                               grain production less than 150kg/per year: grain production less than 150kg/per year:
                                                17.7%                                      4.0%



Output Indicators:

               Indicator/Matrix                                   Baseline                                End of Project
C.) Labor Mobility: Establish a new model of Rate of of labor mobility: 7.9%               Rate of of labor mobility: 12.5%
organized access to off-farm employment for
the absolute poor as indicated by (5) the       Total number of poor finding off-farm job  Total number of poor finding off-farm job
numbers of upland poor finding off-farm         through the project: 0                     through the project: 280,123
employment through the project.

C) (6) remittance by these successful
migrant laborers to their "home-village"        Total remittances: 0                       Total remittances: RMB 1590 million yuan
families.                                       Per capita: 0                              Per capita: RMB 231.5 yuan

D. Social services: improve the poor's
access to basic social services, resulting in   Enrollment rate (7-12 yrs. old group): 89% Enrollment rate (7-12 yrs. old group): 92.5%
(7) increased primary school attendance
rates.

D. (8) Completion rate                                                                     Completion rate of children aged 15: 77.5%
                                                Completion rate of children aged 15: 45.9%
                                                                                           Guangxi: 19.5 per thousand
D. (9) reduced infant mortality rates           Guangxi: 49.8 per thousand                 Guizhou: 50.0 per thousand
                                                Guizhou: 81.5 per thousand




                                                                  - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Basic Education                                             24.93          29.71           119.19
Basic Health Services                                       20.49          20.71           101.04
Labor Mobility                                             112.71         133.33            118.3
Rural Infrastructure                                        39.04          63.99           163.91
Land and Farmer Development                                111.94         160.30           143.19
TVE Development                                             53.95          42.31            78.42
Institution Building                                         6.30            6.05           96.01
Poverty Monitoring                                           5.52            7.15          129.65


Total Baseline Cost                                        374.88         463.55
 Physical Contingencies                                     20.00
 Price Contingencies                                        91.50
                         Total Project Costs               486.38         463.55
                   Total Financing Required                486.38         463.55


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            70.00       141.20         0.00         211.20
                                  (0.00)          (24.30)      (28.40)        (0.00)      (52.70)
2. Goods                          42.20            73.00        28.50         0.00         143.70
                                 (42.20)          (54.70)      (21.40)        (0.00)      (118.30)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        29.90         0.00         29.90
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (21.40)        (0.00)      (21.40)
4. Land Acquisition                0.00             0.00         0.00         12.10        12.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Other                           0.00             0.00        72.80         16.70        89.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (55.10)        (0.00)      (55.10)
   Total                          42.20           143.00       272.40         28.80        486.40
                                 (42.20)          (79.00)     (126.30)        (0.00)      (247.50)




                                                - 26 -

   Other includes Tuition and Medical Assistance, Labor Training and Placement, and Others.

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              14.12            173.55             12.82            200.49
                                           (0.00)             (3.94)           (45.45)            (0.00)           (49.39)
   2. Goods                                 39.97             46.47             46.62             12.62            145.68
                                           (39.97)           (46.47)           (34.02)            (0.00)          (120.46)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             74.28             0.00             74.28
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (53.62)            (0.00)           (53.62)
   4. Land Acquisition                      0.00               0.00              0.00             19.43            19.43
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Other                                 0.00               0.00              4.24             1.34              5.58
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.26)            (0.00)           (1.26)
       Total                                39.97             60.59            298.69             46.21            445.46
                                           (39.97)           (50.41)          (134.35)            (0.00)          (224.73)
   Other includes Tuition and Medical Assistance, Labor Training and Placement, and Others.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Basic Education                17.96        14.44                    13.94         15.78                 77.6     109.3
Basic Health Services          18.39         8.02                    12.80         7.91                  69.6      98.6
Labor Mobility                 80.90        64.31                    71.62         61.71                 88.5      96.0
Rural Infrastructure           22.18        28.72                    13.31         50.68                 60.0     176.5
Land and Farmer                59.85        86.20                    68.63         91.67                 114.7    106.3
Development
TVE Development                38.37        31.74                    29.26         13.05                 76.3      41.1
Institution Building            4.87         3.31                     2.98         3.07                  61.2      92.7
Poverty Monitoring              4.97         2.17                     2.43         4.72                  48.9     217.5




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Overall Evaluation

As evidenced by a variety of available data, the project achieved remarkable economic and social benefits.
These data (see Annex 7, Document No. 13) consistently confirm the improvements of a series of key
monitoring indicators. The incidence of poverty, for example, declined from 31.5% in 1995 to 12.9% in
2001, and per capita income increased from 939.5 yuan to 1422 yuan during the same period (see Annex 3
Table 1 below). The beneficiaries obtained more development opportunities as shown by the enhanced
market participation, strengthened ability of managing risks, increased girl's enrollment rate, and the
reduced gender disparity. Project villages outperformed the non-project villages in many aspects, while the
latter generally enjoyed much better initial conditions than that of project villages. For example, in 2001,
the incidence of poverty is almost the same for both the project and non-project villages. However, in
1995, the incidence of poverty was nearly 11 percentage point higher in the project villages. The overall
economic rate of return (ERR) to the project as a whole, under several quite conservative assumptions, is
estimated to be around 34%.

                     Annex 3 Table 1: Changes of Series Key Monitoring Indicators
           poverty       p.c.        food          p.c.           % village with access       gender       labor
          incidence    income      security*      saving                                      gap**      migration
             (%)       (yuan)        (%)          (yuan)   electricity  road     telephone      (%)         (%)

 1995       31.5         939.5       17.7          93.2       75.2       82.3       37.2          86         7.9
 2001       12.9       1,422.1        4.0         351.9       99.0       99.0       74.0          97        12.5

 * food security is measured by the percentage of population with per capita grain production less than 150 kg/year;
 ** gender gap is measured by the ratio of girls' enrollment rate over boys' enrollment rate for the age group of 7-15
    years old.

Rate of Return Estimation

Data for calculating the ERR comes from a series of Poverty Monitoring Reports (compiled by the
National Bureau of Statistics, 1996-2001) and representative village surveys (conducted by provincial
PMOs). Project benefits have been quantified for five major components. These are (a) education, (b)
labor mobility, (c) rural infrastructure (for the irrigation subcomponent), (d) land and farmer development,
and (e) TVE development (for the rural farmers' market construction subcomponent). Total investment for
these five major components accounts for 75% of total project investment.                   The benefits of other
components are difficult to quantify and hence ERRs have not been calculated for them.

No effort was made to separately estimate the financial rate of return (FRR). After more than two decades
of market-oriented economic reform, price distortions due to the government's planning have been
significantly reduced and in many cases completely eliminated. An integrated domestic market has now
been established and it is increasingly integrated with the international market. Against this background,
there is essentially no additional value to separately calculate ERRs and FRRs to capture the impact of
price distortion. Annex 3 Table 2 presents estimated ERRs for the whole project as well as for specific
components.




                                                        - 28 -

         Annex 3 Table 2: Rates of Return For The Whole Project And Individual Components
             Project as   Education           Labor              Rural          TVE       Land and farmer
               whole                         mobility        infrastructure                development
    ICR         34%         18%          More than 50%           20%             16%           42%
    SAR         36%          n.a.        More than 50%            n.a.         32-45%          40%




Basic Education: Ravallion and Chen (1997), by using the data from the project provinces, showed that
the per capita income of those who received elementary education is about 20% higher than those who are
illiterate. Based on this key parameter, the per capita income data from 1996 to 2001, and a few
conventional and conservative assumptions, the rate of return to elementary education is around 18%.

We can reasonably argue that the 18% is the lower bound of the real ERR to the education component,
given that many other benefits are not included in this calculation. For example, we did not quantify the
benefits of the adult vocational training program, local libraries construction, teachers' training, and
classroom constructions. Research conducted by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI,
2001) showed that investment in education is the most profitable investment in terms of its return to rural
GDP in the western China. IFPRI estimated that one yuan investment in education would have five yuan
return.

Labor Mobility: Labor mobility has overwhelmingly been rated by the project beneficiaries as one of their
most favorite components. In many cases, farm households can repay what they borrowed from the project
within the same year, which makes ERR undefined. NBS's Poverty Monitoring Report also consistently
show that improving off-farm job opportunity has considerably contributed to the increase of per capita
income. Under a set of very conservative assumptions, by using the data from the representative village
survey, the ERR for labor mobility is estimated to be more than 50%.

Rural Infrastructure: Rural infrastructure component is also one of components most welcomed by the
beneficiaries. The Poverty Monitoring Report (see Annex 7 Document 13) shows that the small irrigation
subcomponent results in 1.35% increase of per capita income. Based on this parameter and other three
moderate assumptions, the rate of return to the small irrigation sub-component is estimated around 20%.
This ERR can also be treated as the lower bound of the real ERR for the whole rural infrastructure
component. For example, when asked to rank the sub-components of infrastructure component, farmers
always give the first two priorities to the road construction and electrification. Farmers generally rank the
small irrigation as the third priority. Therefore, we can reasonably believe that ERRs for road and
electrification should be higher than that of small irrigation in order to match farmers' preference order.
Moreover, other researches (for example, Rozelle and Huang, 2003) also found the similar conclusion,
which gives us additional confidence over our findings.

TVE Development: The focus of the TVE development component has considerably shifted after the
mid-term review and the component size has been reduced (see Sections 3.4 and 4.2). The component
comprises the two subcomponents of small farmers' markets construction (which accounts for 30% of total
component cost) and TVE enterprise development (which accounts for the remaining 70%). For the small
market place construction sub-component, based on the data from Guangxi (including information of all 52
newly constructed markets), and extrapolating the benefits over 20 years, the ERR for constructing local
market is about 42%. For the enterprise development sub-component, we do not have enough data to
calculate the ERR; however, we assume it is around 5% given its generally unsatisfactory performance.



                                                     - 29 -

Weighted by their share in the total project investment, the ERR for the whole TVE component is estimated
16%.

Land and Farmer Development: Following the conventional methodology, the ERRs for the three
sub-component have been calculated: livestock sub-component (including goat, pig, and silkworm),
cash-crop/tree sub-component (including tea, sugar cane, and longan), and the grain sub-component
(including maize and rice). The overall ERR for the whole component is about 42%, ranging from 16%
(longan) to 66% (silkworm).

Detailed calculations, including methodologies, specific assumptions, crop budgets, and activity models are
provided in the project files (see Annex 7 Document 14).




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Lending
              07/93                  10     E/ML, (2)FI, (2)E, PH, AQ,
                                            M/FI/LB, AG, T
              01/94                  10     E/ML, E, M/FI/LB, NRE, PH,
                                            E&BE, (2)AG, E (CA), T
              5/94                     8    E/ML, E, M/FI/LB, E&BE, PH,
                                            (2)AG, NRE (FF)
              9/94                   11     E/ML, E, M/FI/LB, E&BE, PH,
                                            (2)AG, AN, E&IB, (2)UP
              11/94                    2    AQ, E
              11/94                  11     E/ML, DC/A, E&BE, 2UP,
                                            M/FI/LB, PS E&IB, AG, AQ, PH
              3/95                     6    E/ML, M/FI/LB, E&BE, PH,
                                            AG, PH

 Supervision

              07/95                    8    E/ML, M/FI/LB, E&BE, ENV,         HS             HS
                                            E&IB, ENG, PS E
              10/95                   15    E/ML, M/FI/LB, AQ, ENV,           S               S
                                            E&IB, E&BE, (3)AG, RED, PH,
                                            RS, PS AN, E
              04/96                   12    E/ML, ENV, PS E&IB, E&BE,         S              HS
                                            RED, PH, (3)AG, SDS, WDS
              10/96                    9    E/ML, PH, ENV, AQ, E&IB,          S              HS
                                            E&BE, RED, (2)AG
              01/97                    7    E/ML, E, E&IB, LM, E&BE,          S              HS
                                            AN, AG
              04/97                   13    E, E&BE, EXT, 10IJ
              10/97                    9    E/ML, EDU, LM, E&IB, (2)AG,       S              HS
                                            PS AQ, T
              04/98                    7    E/ML, E&LM, E&IB, (2)AG,          S              HS
                                            (2)E&PM
              07/98                    3    (2)E, VPDEC
              11/98                   10    E/ML, RED, E&IB, (2)E, (2)AG,     S              HS
                                            E&PM, PH, CP
              05/99                    8    E/ML, RED, E&IB, EDU, (2)E,       S              HS
                                            AG, RS
              10/99                    3    E/ML, E&IB, AG                    S              HS
              05/00                   13    E/ML, E&PM, RED, E&IB,            S              HS
                                            EDU, AG, FM, PH, RS, (3)AN,
                                            VPEXT
              03/01                    4    E/ML, E&LM, E&IB, AG              S              HS
              10/01                    5    ML, E&IB, RED, E/EDU, AG          S              HS
              03/02                    9    E/ML, E/EDU, DO, E&IB,            S              HS



                                             - 31 -

                                                             (2)AG, PS PH, RED (DFID)

 ICR
                10/02                                  9      E/ML, E&LM, LM, E, AG,                      S               HS
                                                              E/EDU, ENV, RED, PH

AG = Agriculturalist; AN = Anthropologist; AQ = Aquaculturist; CP = Community Participation; DC/A = Division
Chief/Agriculture; DO = Disbursement Officer; E = Economist; E (CA) = Economist (Care Australia); E&BE = Economist &
Basic Education; E&IB = Engineer & Institution Building; E&LM = Economist & Labor Mobility; E/ML = Economist/Mission
Leader; E&PM = Economist & Poverty Monitoring; EDU = Education; ENG = Engineer; ENV = Environmentalist; EXT =
External Affairs; FI = Financial Institutions; FM = Financial Management; IJ = International Journalist; LM = Labor Mobility;
M/FI/LB = Microenterprise, Financial Institutions & Labor Mobility; ML = Mission Leader; NRE (FF) = Natural Resources
Economist (Ford Foundation); PS = Procurement Specialist; PH = Public Health; RED = Rural Enterprise Development; RED
(DFID) = Rural Enterprise Development (Department for International Development); RS = Resettlement Specialist; SDS =
Social Development Specialist; T = Training; UP = Urban Planner; VPDEC = Vice President Development Economics & Chief
Economist; VPEXT = Vice President External Affairs; WDS = Women in Development Specialist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Lending                                                                                     349
  Supervision                                                                                 538
  ICR
  Total                                                                                       887
ICR costs incorporated in Supervision.




                                                             - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Ethnic Minorities -
The project made a substantial contribution to the
well-being of ethnic minority people. Although
more could have been done, the project was path
breaking for its time in this aspect.

   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Southwest Poverty Reduction Project Staff Appraisal Report
2. Quality Assurance Group's Post-Approval Quality at Entry Assessment
3. Aide Memoires
4. Southwest Poverty Reduction Project "Yanshou" Evaluation Report
   (by FCPMC in Chinese and English)
5. Component Evaluations
   5.1 Education Component
   5.2A Health Component (Oct 2002)
   5.2B Health Component (Mar 2002)
   5.3 Labor Mobility Component
   5.4 Rural Infrastructure Component
   5.5 Farmer Development Component
   5.6 Town and Village Enterprises Development Component
   5.7 Poverty Monitoring Component by Terry Sicular
   5.8 Poverty Monitoring Component by National Bureau of Statistics
6. "Are the Income Gains from a Development Project Consumed or Saved"
   (a paper by Shaohua Chen and Martin Ravallion)
7. Country Assistance Evaluation by A. R. Khan
8. China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s
9. China: Overcoming Rural Poverty
10. Participatory Poverty Appraisal Report (April 2003)
11. Guangxi MEDS Follow-Up Evaluation Report (September, 1999)
12. Adjustment Plan of Guangxi Hard Loan Project (Guangxi PMO, May 2000)
13. SWPRP Poverty Monitoring Report (NBS, each year 1996-2000)
14. Rate of Return Calculations (spreadsheet) and Underlying Data (in Chinese)
15. Village-Based Multisectoral Poverty Reduction Approach (in PowerPoint)
16. SWPRP Labor Mobility "Yanshou" Reports (by CWHRDC in English and Chinese)




                                                  - 35 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Participatory Approach and Stakeholder Workshops. Following project completion, the Bank financed
an independent participatory study of the project's overall impact and the participatory process. The
Participatory Poverty Appraisal Report (PPAR), undertaken by China Cross-Cultural Consulting
Center (CCCC) in April 2003, (a) concludes that the project achieved favorable results in each of the five
areas examined, (b) identifies a large number of "existing problems," (c) proposes a number of solutions to
these problems, and (d) finds that the participatory process could have been strengthened. In addition, the
PPAR's findings on female and ethnic minority people's participation in the project are summarized in
Section 4.2 above. Overall, the PPAR is both a powerful qualitative evaluation of the effectiveness and
impact of SWPRP, and an extremely useful guideline for improving poverty reduction work in future
projects.

The PPAR reports that the project "actually relieved poverty in the affected areas" through increases and
improvements in human resources and environmental, infrastructure, financial and social assets. The
project improved the "quality of human resources" through increased consumption of basic goods
(including food and other basic necessities), improved labor capacity and skills, higher educational
attainment and health status, and the introduction of advanced technologies. Environmental deterioration
was reduced or reversed and land productivity enhanced through terracing, water resource development,
soil improvement and other methods. Basic infrastructure was strengthened by the construction of roads,
drinking water systems, and electricity systems, and farm productivity was boosted through the provision
of basic tools, improved seed, and other inputs. Financial assets increased and new financial channels were
introduced. Lastly, social assets were strengthened through the build up of the project management system.
Overall, the PPAR found that the project helped reduce poverty and that the multisectoral model was
successful.

The PPAR also identifies a large number of significant problems and difficulties which were not adequately
overcome during project implementation. A total of 105 difficulties and problems are listed in the PPAR,
including the following key issues:

       Targeting  although the project reached most of the poorest households and villages, coverage
        was often very thin (that is, the project benefits per household were too limited) in the most remote
        and poorest villages and some of the very poorest households were denied participation because of
        concerns that they could not repay the loan.
       Flexibility  project design could not always anticipate market and other changes, and there was a
        need for greater flexibility during implementation.
       Procurement Methods  inappropriate procurement methods resulted in high prices, incorrect
        products, and untimely delivery. This problem was most severe in the case of ICB procurement of
        farm inputs (particularly fertilizer).
       Financial Management  the procedure of using counterpart funds for the prepayment of project
        activities (with subsequent reimbursement from the Bank credit and loan) is not viable in China's
        poorest counties which are in a continual state of financial crisis.
       Local Project Management System  there is a need for further strengthening, funding, and
        institution building of the project management system at the township and village level.          In
        particular, project staff at the township and village level were not compensated for their work on
        the project.




                                                     - 36 -

        Risk Management  the project provided little or no assistance for risk from crop failure, livestock
         disease and death, severe illness, and natural disaster.       These problems often pushed farm
         households back below the poverty line.
        Maintenance  now that the project has completed, more specific plans and funding mechanisms
         for maintenance and repair are essential for the large numbers of small works constructed under the
         project.

In addition, the PPAR found that more could have been done to (a) better include female and ethnic
minority beneficiaries in the project (see Section 4.2 above), and (b) strengthen the participatory approach.

Adoption of SWPRP's participatory approach was uneven across the project provinces and over time. The
PPAR found that Guangxi's participatory approach was "perfect" but was very weak in Guizhou where the
farmers "have joined the project but have not participated therein." Yunnan, which increasingly recognizes
the importance of the participatory approach, seems to represent the middle ground. The PPAR found that
participation was weak during project design, became intense during implementation when the farm
households actively engaged in all sorts of project activities, and then weakened during the final monitoring
and evaluation work at the conclusion of the project. The Bank task team, on the other hand, believes that
the initial focus on participation was very strong but then decayed throughout the period of implementation.
This difference in views might be explained by the fact that the participatory approach adopted during
project design (including the preparation of large numbers of village development plans based at least in
part on extensive interviews of the intended beneficiaries) was quite novel and even a major step forward in
China in the early-1990s, but by now appears rather outdated and simplistic. Lastly, the PPAR notes the
high operational costs of the participatory approach and recommends that a cost effective methodology be
developed and be adequately budgeted into project management overheads.




                                                     - 37 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

See Annex 8.




                                      - 38 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's ICR Summary

                                 Abstract of the Project Completion Report
                              On China Southwest Poverty Reduction Project

China Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (SWPRP) is the first large-scaled, trans-regional and
integrated project cooperated by the Chinese Government and the World Bank, which provides direct
support to the poor farmers. The project made use of 128.6 million SDR (equivalent to US$ 200 million) as
the soft loan and US$ 47.5 million as the hard loan, with a coverage of 2.38 million population in 35 state
key working poor counties in Guangxi, Guizhou and Yunnan provinces (region) as well as three cities
namely Beihai, Nanning, Fangchenggan of Guangxi. After approved by the State Council in September
1992, the project was listed as a pipeline World Bank funded project and then went into preparation. On
July 18, 1995, the project was officially authorized for commencement by the World Bank and came to
overall completion on June, 30, 2002. Generally speaking, the project design has demonstrated the
mainstream of anti-poverty theme nowadays and been in accordance with the state poverty reduction
guidelines and policies. Under the strong leadership of the Chinese Government and the close collaboration
of relevant departments and agencies, as well as the guidance from the World Bank's experts, the project
has achieved great success and realized the targets through the great effort of project management agencies
and the active participation of the broad poor farmers.

1. The Project Implementation.
The Education Component.
A total investment of 245.74 million Yuan RMB was completed, which is 87% of the target or 86% of the
mid-term modified target. Of which, 88.71 million Yuan RMB for Guanggxi, 82.9 million Yuan RMB for
Guizhou, and 74.13 million Yuan RMB for Yunnan. The major reason for incompletion of the investment
targets is due to the actual procurement prices were lower than the planned; in addition, tuition assistance
activities had not been carried out continuously in the later stage of the project, which also affected
investment completion. However, all other activities were completed smoothly.
The main completed activities are: Newly built village schools (including completed primary school and
teaching points) are up to 1,600 with the total construction areas of 423,716 square meters; poor students
received financial assistance reached 382789 person-time, and 15887 teachers received training, 1492
schoolmasters were trained; 245,250 sets of desks and chairs, 1,119,612 volumes of book, 1,637 education
facilities and 4112 boarding sets were provided. In that case, all the planned activities were completed.

The Health Component.
After mid-term adjustment, the investment for the health component was modified to 213.1 million Yuan
RMB. Up to the project completion, a total investment of 171.24 million Yuan RMB was completed, which
is 74% of the original target or 80% of the mid-term modified target. Of which, Guangxi completed 55.88
million Yuan RMB, and Guizhou 56.85 million Yuan RMB, and Yunnan came to 58.51 million Yuan
RMB. There are three reasons for incompletion of the total investment. One is that planned establishing
village cooperative health care fund had not been conducted in all project villages, second is that since the
family planning is further carried out, the number of pregnant and delivery women in the project area has
been deceased, which led to deduction of involvement of pregnant and delivery women in health care
activity; and thirdly, the actual procurement prices for part of equipments were lower than the plan.
The main completed activities are: 232 newly constructed or renovated township hospitals with the total
construction area of 48,000square meters; 1,648 village health care points with the total area of
86,969square meters; training provided for 1696 village doctors, 3499 birth attendants, 1808 township
epidemic prevention and health care workers as well as 216 county health administration staffs; 290 sets of



                                                     - 39 -

equipment purchased for township hospitals; 1,727 sets equipped for village health care points. 134 X-ray
machines, 58 sets of refrigeration equipments and 36 ambulances were provided to the county health
bureaus and township hospitals. Nearly 240,000 women in the project area had been offered health care
services during their pregnancy and delivery.

The Labor Mobility Component.
The total investment of 493.26 million Yuan RMB was completed, which is 96% of the original target or
94% of mid-term modified target of522.80 million Yuan RMB.
During the seven years of project implementation, up to 280,123 spare labors were exported from the
project area, among which 131,339 to outside of the province, 95,078 to outside of the counties within the
province and 53,706 settled inside of the counties. In case of Guangxi, the total exported number was
91,081, which is 110% of the original target or 98.5% of the mid-term modified target. Of the total, 42,936
to outside of the region, 35,206 to outside of the counties within the region and 12,939 settled inside of the
counties. As to Guizhou Province, the total exported number was 83,246, which is 103.4% of the original
target or 100.5% of the mid-term modified target. Of the total, 58,294 to outside of the province, 14,401 to
outside of the counties within the province and 10,551 settled inside of the counties. For Yunnan Province,
the total exported labors are 105,796, which is 118% of the original target or 102% of the mid-term
modified target. Of which 30,141 to outside of the province, 45,492 to outside of the counties within the
province and 30,163 settled inside of the counties.

The Infrastructure Component.
The total investment completed was 529.22 million Yuan RMB, which is 120% of the original target and
104% of the mid-term modified target. Of which, Guangxi completed 184.387 million Yuan RMB,
Guizhou 205.21 million Yuan RMB and 139.626 million Yuan RMB for Yunnan.
The major activities completed are: 2,349 km of rural road; the problem of drinking water for 827,000
people and over 300,000 animals was solved through 1,398km of rural power transmission lines, of which
180 km are of 35 kv and 1,218 km of 10 kv; 12,136 ha of newly increased irrigation area through
construction of irrigation, flood control, soil and water conservation facilities, as well as rehabilitation of
existing reservoirs; Excepting the scale reduction by a big margin for the rural energy development
component in Guangxi, there were all increasing in the scale for rest of the activities during the mid-term
adjustment and the objectives were also over fulfilled.

The Land and Farmer Development Component.
The total investment completed was 1325.66 million Yuan RMB, which is 105% of its original target or
97% of the mid-term modified. Of which, 494.25 million Yuan RMB for Guangxi, 428.87 million Yuan
RMB for Guizhou and 402.54 million Yuan RMB for Yunnan.
The main activities completed are as follows: (1) Grain and fodder crops development. 6,601 ha for
terracing, 20,046 ha soil improvement, 72,920 ha corn yield increasing and 12,555 ha fodder crops
planting. (2) Timber and fruit crops development. A total of 86,479 ha of land was planted with pomelo,
long an, apple, chestnut, tea, pepper, bamboo and other crops. (3) 18,855 ha for planting economic crops,
such as herb, vegetables and konjac and so on. (4) Animals raising. 329,421 pork type pigs, 63,628 sows,
310,711 goats, 137,977 cattle, 1,598 cage fish culture and over 920,000 small poultries were raised;
(5)Technical training. Agricultural technicians were trained for 113,375 person-times, 7,280 training
courses on various agricultural applied technologies were conducted and up to 1,331,319 person-times of
farmers received training. The three provinces altogether completed 17 case studies on agricultural applied
technology, of which, 4 by Guangxi, 8 by Guizhou and 5 by Yunnan.
So far as every province is concerned, the coverage of farmer households by the project is relatively ideal,
with an average rate up to 91.1%. Most of the farmer households have received loans with a certain size,
which is helpful for them to engage in production activities. Under this relatively high coverage rate, the


                                                    - 40 -

average investment level per household in Guangxi and Guizhou is basically appropriate to accord with the
project's requirements. But in case of Yunnan, the loan size was smaller and reached only half of the
designing.

The TVEs Component.
In original plan, the total investment for TVEs component was 611 million Yuan RMB and reached to
14.4% of the total project investment. According to this original plan, 164 enterprises and 45 rural bazaars
would be built. During the implementation, this component had progressed very slowly with great
difficulties due to market fluctuation and inadequate preparation. So during the mid-term adjustment, there
was a great cut-off in the scale and reduction of investment, and further adjustment was also made
afterwards by every province. Up to the project completion, the total investment completed was 350million
Yuan RMB, which is only 57% of its original target. Altogether, 62 enterprises and 70 small rural bazaars
were set up, among which 59 bazaars in Guangxi in comparison with its planned 11. In Yunnan, some
village processing workshops were also built. Guangxi totally completed 129.08 million Yuan RMB of
investment, of which 113,74 million Yuan RMB for 20 processing enterprises and 15.335 million Yuan
RMB for 59 rural bazaars; Guizhou completed 110.12 million Yuan RMB, of which 107.49 million Yuan
RMB for 20 various processing enterprises and 2.63 million Yuan RMB for 5 bazaars; In Yunnan, the
total investment completed for TVEs reached to 129.227 million Yuan RMB, of which, 85.54 million Yuan
RMB for 22 enterprises, 103.86 million Yuan RMB for rural bazaars, and 14.723 million Yuan RMB for
618 village processing workshops. In addition, in Yunnan, 4 enterprises were not established due to the
problems of equipment, land expropriation and funding, but around 18.57 million Yuan RMB had been
spent.

The Institutional Building Component.
In order to organize and manage implementation of SWPRP in an effective and efficient way, the project
management offices were established at all levels from the central down to the three provinces (region) and
the 35 project counties. All 291 project townships were provided with full-time project staffs, and the
project execution groups were also set up in all 1798 project villages.
In this component, the total investment completed was 50.04 million Yuan RMB, which is 70% of its target
or 77% of the mid-term modified target. Of which, 12.546 million Yuan RMB by Guangxi, 10.48 million
Yuan RMB by Guizhou and 9.18 million Yuan RMB by Yunnan. The central PMO also completed 17.83
million Yuan RMB of investment. All the major activities had been completed for this component, which
are mainly: newly expanded office spaces for all three provinces (region) with a total construction area of
3,020 square meters, purchase of 30 sets of office equipment such as computer, fax machine, printer, etc.,
17 overseas study tours or training with participation of 166 people-times were organized. In addition, 7
case studies were also conducted by Guangxi and Guizhou.

The Project and Poverty Monitoring Component.
This component consisted two parts, i.e. project implementation monitoring and poverty monitoring.
Poverty monitoring activities had been conducted and completed by the provincial and county RSO under
guidance of the central RSO of the State Statistical Bureau, while project monitoring had been conducted
by the PMOs at various levels. Up to the project completion, the total investment for this component
completed was 61.28 million Yuan RMB, which is 98% of the original target or 107% of the mid-term
modified target. Of which, 7.29 million Yuan RMB was for poverty monitoring and 5.3982 million Yuan
RMB for project monitoring. Basically, the project targets were achieved.

The Urban Employment and Development (Hard Loan) Component in Guangxi.
The total investment completed is 650.56 million Yuan RMB, which is 86.6% of the original target, or
107% of the modified target of 608.78 million.


                                                   - 41 -

In the early stage of the implementation, lacking of experience and exploration in the market made
difficulties on settlement of surplus labors form the poor area. After the mid-term adjustment, this situation
had been improved. By the end of 2002, altogether 34,462 surplus labors had been arranged for
employment, of which 5,884 found permanent jobs, while 28,578 only found seasonal works. In general,
the actual number of permanent jobs arranged was slightly higher than the plan, while the seasonal was
lower.
The progress of this component had been very slow at the early stage. The major reasons could be
elaborated as: (1) the factor of market fluctuation was not sufficiently taken into consideration at the
planning stage; (2) the target set for labor mobility arrangement was very high and it is difficult to in put
the designed procurement method into actual operations; (3) the enterprises involved in project activities
were not familiar with the project procedures requirement, which led to slow funding reimbursement and
affected progress; (4) different understandings on the component by the World Bank, the project
management agencies, local governments and enterprises. After years practice and the mid-term
adjustment, together with the three cities, the Guangxi PMO made relevant adjustment on the plan
according to the practical reality, brought into more balanced relations between the various sides and
clearly defined the debt responsibilities. Therefore, the project progress was speeded up in the later stage
and the objectives had been basically achieved.

2. Reimbursement and Domestic Counterpart Funds Allocation
Reimbursement of the World Band funds.
By the end of April 2003, the total cumulated reimbursement for the three provincial PMOs and the central
PMO is 12.86 million SDR, which is about US$ 174.7834 million actually received and equivalent to
1445.4587 million Yuan RMB. Among which, 43.7473 million SDR for Guangxi, which is 103% of the
total loans of 42.438 million SDR; 39.8748 million SDR for Guizhou, 100% of the total of 39.866 million
SDR; 38.551 million SDR for Yunnan, 96.7% of the total loans of 39.866 million SDR; and 6.43 million
SDR for the central PMOs, 100% of the total.
Reimbursement by every province (region): the Guangxi, Guizhou and central PMOs have overall
completed reimbursement according to the plan. Since part of the project activities could not be completed
according to the plan due to some problems in Zhaotong Prefecture, on behalf of the Yunnan Provincial
Government, the Yunnan Department of Finance and Provincial Poverty Reduction and Development
Office officially applied request to the Ministry of Finance and the state LGOP to reduce reimbursement
amounted to 1.3 million SDR. In order to realize overall project reimbursement task, according to the
project implementation progress and the demand of the project construction in Guangxi, after request by the
Guangxi Department of Finance and the Poverty Reduction and Development Office on behalf of the
Regional Government, the Ministry of Finance and the state LGOP approved to transfer 1.3 million SDR
to Guangxi from Yunnan.
As for the hard loan component, owing to some difficulties and problems at the early stage of
implementation, the disbursement was laggard. However, the progress had been obviously speeded up later
on after adjustment in the aspect of project construction activities as well as the locations. By the end of
April 2003, overall reimbursement was realized.

Domestic counterpart funds allocation.
Actual counterpart funds allocated for the three provinces (region) are 1951.11594 million Yuan RMB,
which is 113.8% of the plan. Among which, 671.3586 million Yuan RMB are for Guangxi, which is
116.9% of the plan; 657.688 million Yuan RMB for Guizhou, 99.4% of the plan and 622.1148 million
Yuan RMB for Yunnan, 129.8% of the plan. With regard to the category of the counterpart funds
allocated, fiscal grant fund counted to 283.87 million Yuan RMB, which is 14.8% of the total; poverty
reduction loan 759.5 million Yuan RMB, 39.5% of the total; the "food for work" fund 410.95 million Yuan
RMB, 21.4% of the total; and lastly, the self-raised fund by departments and enterprises amounted to


                                                    - 42 -

496.85 million Yuan RMB, or 25.9% of the total.
In light of the counterpart funds arrangement plan, part of the fund would come from the farmers'
self-raising as well as labor input. Around 30% the investment for the agricultural component is farmers'
self-raising and labor input. The total cumulated self-raising fund accounted to 576.93 million Yuan RMB.
Of which, 294.14 million Yuan RMB for Guangxi, 107.09 million Yuan RMB for Guizhou and 175.7
million Yuan RMB for Yunnan.
Regarding to actual allocation of counterpart fund for the three provinces (region), both Guangxi and
Yunnan have done a good job and overfulfilled the targets. Although there have been difficulties in
financial recourses, Guizhou Province have made its best efforts to allocate most of the counterpart fund to
meet the demand of the project construction.

3. Project Effectiveness Evaluation
Through the implementation of SWPRP, the production and living conditions of the project farmer
households have been dramatically improved, the servicing function of basic education and health care
services to the poor has been enhanced, which laid a good foundation for further increasing of farmers'
income and changing the overall poverty situation in the project areas. Implementation of various
agricultural development activities solved the food security problem and made it possible that the poor
households' cash income has been increased. By exporting of more than 200,000 of surplus labors, not
only has the cash income been increased for the poor households, but also their knowledge was widen and
changed, the productive skills and comprehensive qualities are enhanced too. Through those integrated
measures, the poor situation in the project area has been changed and the objective of solving the "food and
clothing" problem for the absolute poor has been realized.

The community services and infrastructure conditions in the project areas have been greatly
improved.
Through implementation of the education component, school buildings in danger has been dramatically
decreased. Education equipment such as class tables and benches, books and other facilities has been
replenished. The teachers' qualification rate has been greatly upgraded through various trainings.
Enrollment rate and primary school completion rate for children of school age have also been largely
increased from 89% in 1995 to 93% in 2001 and from 46% in 1997 to 76% in 2001 respectively. All these
efforts give more opportunities to the poor children to study in the school and to complete their primary
education.
Through implementing the basic sanitation and health care program in the poor villages, including setting
up health care points, equipping medical facilities, training to village doctors and birth attendants, and
providing health care to the pregnant and delivery women as well as carrying out planed immunization, the
medical and health service in the project areas haven been extremely developed. For example, the
proportion of villages with health care points had been is increased from 23.9% in 1995 to 88.5% in 2001,
the proportion of villages with qualified medics increased from 43.4% to 90.3%, the proportion with
qualified birth attendants increased from 25.7% to 80.04%. Altogether there are 1727 poor villages realized
the "Four Possessions", e.g. every village has a health post with an area of not less than 50 square meters,
which are equipped with essential clinical equipment and basic medicine and the medics mastering basic
medical techniques.
Along with the improvement of sanitation and health conditions and ability strengthening of village doctors,
the women and children health care situation has greatly changed. The proportion of women receiving
pre-delivery checking and giving birth in the hospital has been increased from 24.3% to 31.4% and 4.1% to
9.9% respectively, which directly results the reduction of death rate for infant and pregnant/delivery
women. In other aspect, through providing vaccination and raising vaccinating rate, the vaccinating rate for
children under age 5 is increased from 60-80% at the beginning of the project to above 90% now. Through
construction of more cleaning drinking water facilities and measures such as disinfection after raining,


                                                    - 43 -

incidence of infectious diseases reported also presents dropping down.
Massive investment on infrastructure construction has made the production and living conditions greatly
changed in the project areas. There are more than 820,000 of population and 300,000 of animals have got
rid of drinking water problem. The proportion of people acquiring safe drinking water is increased from
30-59% in 1995 to 67-91% in 2001. The villages having access to electric power exceed over 90%, the
population proportion using electricity has been enormously added. The administrative villages getting
access to road has been increased from 82.3% in 1995 to 96.5% in 2001.

Cash income and grain occupation of poor households has been sharply lifted. According to the results
of poverty monitoring by SSB and project monitoring, the project covered all the poor villages in the
project areas as designed and most of the poor households participated in at least one project activities.
Survey conducted in the three project provinces (region) shows that out of the total farmer households in
the project area, around 90% of them had been involved in agricultural and labor migration activities. In
Guangxi, around 151,000 farmer households out of 165,000 got credit by participation in labor migration
and agricultural activities, which accounts for 91% of the total with the average credit level per household
of 1333 Yuan RMB. In Guizhou, about 169,000 households out of total 175,000 got loan support by
participation in labor migration and agricultural activities with the average credit of 1482 Yuan RMB. In
Yunnan Province, out of the total 210,000 farmer households, more than 180,000 households were
involved in agricultural activities and more than 55,000 households participated in labor migration. All
these farmer households got credit support with average level of 1069 Yuan RMB. High household
coverage rate, relatively rational credit investment level and other technical support makes it possible that
the farmer households could get benefits from the planned project. The households' cash income has been
considerably increased and the grain occupation amount has been largely added too. The farmer's average
net income per capita is increased from 939 Yuan RMB in 1995 to 1422 Yuan RMB in 2001, the
proportion of households with average grain occupation per capita lower than 150 kg is decreased from
17.7% to 8.7%. It could be said that the problem of "lack of cash and grain" has been basically solved for
the poorest households in the project area.

Poverty-affected population has been greatly reduced and rural poverty situation has been alleviated.
The 6 years project poverty monitoring started simultaneously with the project implementation provides
sufficient data and information for verifying project impacts. Through 7 years implementation,
poverty-stricken population has been greatly declined and the dropping speed is faster than in non-project
areas, poverty situation has been gradually alleviated. From 1995 to 2001, the poverty headcount rate is
decreased from 31.5% to 12.9%, and the rate of weighted poverty gap fell down from 1.23 to 1.04, while
the rate of poverty gap dropped from 5.8 to 3.
While the poverty situation being alleviated, income and consumption level of project farmer households
has been continually increased. Comparing with the non-project villages, the decreasing scope of poverty
extent and the increasing scope of income and consumption level in the project villages is all high, which
indicates that poverty situation of the poor population in the project area has been effectively alleviated due
to the project implementation. But generally speaking, poverty situation in the project villages is still
serious than the non-project villages. One reason is that benefit brought by those project activities carried
out during the late project period has not been come out and the role of the project has not been played to a
full extent. At the same time, it is also illustrated that external support in a short period is not insufficient to
completely change the poverty situation for those very poor and backward villages. Further investment
should be constantly input within a certain period. Only by this way, poverty situation could be
fundamentally erased.




                                                       - 44 -

4. Project Impact Evaluation
Impact on poverty reduction models.
The major purpose of implementation of SWPRP is to verify effectiveness of integrated poverty reduction
and development model. Researches by modern poverty and anti-poverty theory show that poverty is not
only the question of economy and income, but also the issues of social development, environment and
capacity building. Based exactly on this right acknowledgement on poverty, a new poverty reduction
methodology differing from the traditions was piloted in SWPRP implementation. This could be described
as that within one community, through various combined intervention measures to resolve different
povertyrelated issues from different angels, at the same time, by taking advantage of internal organic links
and mutual promotion of various intervention measures, to expand effectiveness and impact of a single
poverty reduction activity, so that to establish a basis for long-term and sustainable development for the
community.

Impact on poverty reduction management mechanism innovation.
Implementation of the integrated poverty reduction model is not only a trial on innovation of new poverty
reduction methodology and project design, but also a challenge to the past project management models. On
these aspects, SWPRP provided some good experiences and lessons for innovation and exploration of
poverty reduction strives in the new century in the aspect of target designing, planning method, project
management, monitoring, etc. These experiences and lessons could be summarized as follows: (1) a
dividing-levels and multi-sectors cooperation project implementation and management model with making
decision by a multi-departments composed leading group, setting up project management offices as the
center and participation of experts from various sectors; (2) by combining demands of the World Bank's
procedures with domestic realities, to establish a complete set of poverty reduction project management
system including organizational management, planning management, financial management, procurement
management, technical management, completion checking and monitoring management; (3) through
formulation of participatory village poverty reduction and development plan, to ensure the poor population
is well targeted, the funds are centralized to be used and poverty reduction efficiency is increased; (4) to
carry out project impact evaluation through introduction of an independent monitoring system.

Impact on development of minority nationalities.
The project areas in the three provinces (region) were chosen and located in the area mostly inhabited by
the minority nationalities. According to the survey, the proportion of minority nationalities in the project
area is in excess of 50% of the total population. Among them, the figure reaches 87% in Guangxi
Autonomous Region specifically. Most of these ethnic minority populations live in the remote mountainous
area of hard access to, culture backward and block of language communication, which seriously constrains
contact with the outside. The problem of poor and infertile land, serious forestry deterioration and fast
population increasing restricts the development of productivity and increasing of per capita income. The
implementation of the project has brought direct benefit to the minority nationalities farmer households.
The project impacts on minority nationalities are: (1) the problem of "basic food and clothing" for minority
nationalities communities and households has been solved, which laid a foundation for further development;
(2) social undertakings development in these areas has been promoted; (3) stimulating minority nationalities
farmer households' strong enthusiasm in participating in project construction, self-development and solving
problem of "food and clothing", their participatory consciousness is also improved; (4) the people's
production and living skills have been advanced through their involvement of various training activities.




                                                    - 45 -

Impact on women development.
Women occupy around half of the total population and labor force in the project area. By taking this into
consideration, during the project design, some activities or stipulations from which women can get direct
benefit were planned, such as providing health care services to the pregnant and delivery women in the
health component, specifying certain proportion of women's participation in various training programs, and
giving girls priority on getting student subsidies and so on. Implementation of the project has brought many
impacts that are as follows: (1) solving women's existing living and production problems and difficulties;
(2) increasing their opportunities in getting access to education and health services, their metal and physical
health has been improved; (3) many young women participated in labor migration program and benefited
from it; (4) since most of the male labor go for out-home employment, women are in fact the major
participants and beneficiaries of the agricultural activities.

Impact on capacity building.
(1) Capacity of poverty reduction administration institutions. The impact on poverty reduction
administration institutions was mainly focused on PMOs staffs at various levels. By participation of over
one thousands PMOs staffs from the central to townships in the project implementation, they all have
acquired new knowledge on poverty reduction theory and methodology, their capabilities on organization,
coordination, monitoring and control have been also improved in varying degrees through studies,
explorations, communications and trainings; (2) Capacity of community (administrative village)
development. Strengthening community development capacity is revealed in two aspects. One is that the
project laid a foundation for coordinated development of economy, society and environment. Another aspect
is that the community's capacity in self-organization and self-management has been enhanced. (3) Capacity
of farmer household development. The farmers' participation in project is not only an opportunity for
increasing income but also a process of self-improvement for comprehensive quality. The training program
carried out in household development and agricultural development components improved farmers' skills
on agricultural production and other aspects. Labor migration also played an important role on promoting
farmers' communication with outside, knowledge updating and vision widening.

Impact on environment.
It is generally believed that the project's impact on environment is positive. First, people's understanding
on importance of environment protection in the poor area has been further strengthened. Implementation of
agricultural component has controlled deterioration of environment and improved environment quality.
Massive construction of timber and fruit forestry, as well as closing mountains for afforestation, has
conserved water and reduced water and soil erosion. Building of gas ponds has changed the long-time
practice of cutting wood for fire fuel and alleviated damage on forestry development. Construction of
abundant drinking water facilities and micro-irrigation works has not only contributed to agricultural sector
adjustment, animal raising activities but also produced good impact on agricultural ecology. The
Acceptance Mission sent by the World Bank in 2002 figured out that the project's impact on environment
is more positive and in accordance with the requirement of the Appraisal Report. Especially, outstanding
achievements have been made on soil conservation and vegetation increasing. From the statistics collected
from the project areas in the three provinces (region), it is seen that the forestry coverage rate in those areas
has been increased in varying degrees. Among the three provinces (region), the forestry coverage rate was
increased from 34% to 41% in Guangxi and 15% to 31% in Guizhou. In addition, execution of labor
migration component alleviated pressures brought by population on land and society increasing and land to
some extent.




                                                     - 46 -

5. Experiences and Lessons Learned from the Project
Integrated poverty reduction and development model is a fundamental approach for poverty
alleviation and promotion of sustainable development for the poverty-stricken areas, and is also an
effective manner of getting rid of poverty and attaining a comparatively better-off life for the people
in the poor area.
The most important character of SWPRP is integration. SWPRP is different from those traditional and
single-sector development poverty reduction projects in the aspect of designing and implementation, which
put investment in a integrated and whole manner by focusing on combination of various development
measures such as infrastructure, basic farmland construction, crop growing, animal raising, education,
health and employment promotion, with administrative village as a basic investing unit and by aiming at
poverty-incurring causes. In this way, not only has the problem of "food and clothing" for poor households
been steadily resolved, but also the living and production conditions, as well as community development
circumstances been improved. At the same time, the project is propitious to building the capacity for
long-term development of the poor households. The achievements made through the project implementation
show that the original consideration of designing a sector-crossing and integrated project is correct and
effective.

The leaders' support and close collaboration between different departments are the most important
prerequisite for success of the project.
SWPRP is the first content-complex, sectors-crossing, trans-regional and integrated poverty reduction
project cooperated by the Chinese Government and the World Bank in the area of poverty alleviation.
Smooth implementation and success of the project has benefited from the importance attached by and
support from the governments at various levels, as well as close cooperation and active participation of
relevant line agencies in the course of project preparation and implementation. Especially in the aspect of
funding allocation, whether the World Bank fund or counterpart fund, and whether the central poverty
reduction fund or fund from other departments had been all invested by year and used in an complementary
manner according to project objectives, beneficiaries, regions, industries and implementation schedule. This
principle and mode of concentrated funding utilization ensured the realizing designed investment level per
capita that was sufficient for solving the problem of "food and clothing" of poor population. At the same
time, leaders' recognition and support, as well as close cooperation between different departments played a
very important role in funding coordination and allocation, as well as providing technical support.

Powerful and competent project execution agencies are key factor for project success.
SWPRP is a piloting project with character of exploration and without any existing successful model to be
referenced. Thus, it is specially requested that all project execution agencies and staffs at various levels
dare to blaze new trails and constantly bring forth new ideas to continuously promote the project
management levels. The practices proved that the complete and effective project execution agencies and a
high-qualified staff team is an important guarantee to success of the project. Because of the precise
understanding and grasping to the project, and the selfless working spirit and hardworking attitudes
attainted by the project execution agencies from the central to the township level, it is possible to smoothly
realize the predetermined objectives of this large-scale project, which covers 35 frontier counties located in
Southwest China with poor population of 2.83 million. At the same time, a set of high-qualified poverty
reduction team has been brought up and tempered through project construction, which is proficient to grasp
and comprehend the procedures of the World Bank project and skills in project operation and management,
and becoming precious treasures of the China poverty reduction line.




                                                    - 47 -

Strict and canonical project management as well as systemized inspection and monitoring system is
the guarantee of project success.
The soul and advantages of the World Bank project management theory and methodology consists with its
management procedures and standards. During the project implementation, the project management
procedures and regulations had been worked out and perfected constantly by the PMOs from the central to
each county according to the World Bank's requirements and the reality of different areas. Those
procedure, regulations and rules ensured in every aspect development of the project according to prefixed
objectives and technical standards. At present, the project provinces (region) and counties have applied a
wealth of experiences cumulated in implementing World Bank project into executing domestic poverty
reduction projects, such as funding reimbursement, procurement bidding and project completion check and
so on. At the same time, regular inspection and monitoring has been carried out continuously during the
project implementation, problems were found out and more pertinent and better measures were formulated
and adopted, so that adjusted project plan and design was more in accordance with the reality of the project
area, which has changed the situation of extensive management practices prevailing in the past throughout
the domestic project implementation and guaranteed success of the project.

Honest and close cooperation between the Chinese and the World Bank sides is an important
condition for successful project.
To carry out this innovation-characterized and integrated poverty reduction project, the unity,
communication and cooperation between the Chinese project agencies and the World Bank project manager
as well as its expert team is very important. The two sides had been unanimously consistent with the
poverty reduction objective and performed very successful cooperation at various stages during the
implementation. For the issues that the two sides could not reach in agreement, discussions could be
conducted frankly through sufficient communication, and finally to make consensus. Due to relation of
mutual respects, mutual understanding and honest cooperation established between the two sides, the
project construction could be possible to be implemented successfully. The outcome of the project is not
only accordance with the World Bank's requirements but also welcome by the project area, which ensured
the practical effects.

While paying attention to the physical input, importance should be also attached to the soft input,
especially input in training.
One of the characters of SWPRP is to attach importance to the training. Training activities had been
conducted in every component and throughout the whole project life. Constantly intensified training had
played a very important role in establishment of a high qualified project team, well understanding of special
procedures and requirements of the World Bank's project, as well as efficiency promotion of project
construction and project facilities' utilization. While the participatory survey was conducted, the farmer
households reflected that after providing the teachers with training, the teaching quality had been raised,
which won satisfaction of the students and their patriarchs. Moreover, training to the village birth
attendances and doctors had provided hospitalizing convenience for the villagers.

The project design could be constantly improved in a more scientific and operational-oriented
manner.
In consideration of SWPRP is a relatively integrated and innovational project, during the designing and
implementing stage, a few of project activities were not thoroughly planned or perfect in operation, there
was also existing under-estimation of inter-actions and influences between different activities, which,
therefore, led to difficulties in implementation as well as incompletely utilization of some finished works.
For example, due to lacking of detailed studies on environment in the poor area and conditions for project
implementation, as well no effective guaranteeing measures to be taken, some project activities, such as


                                                    - 48 -

supplementary nutrition supply, exemption and reduction of tuition and book fees in education component,
as well as establishment of village cooperative health care foundation in health component, were forced to
be stop because of difficulties come up during the implementation and without reaching the targets. In
addition, some of the technical quotas are on the low side and not adapted to the demand of further rural
development from the long-term angel. For instance, in project designing, some unit prices are low and
proportion of self-collected funds is relatively high, which brought overload to the farmers and led to
ineffective insurance of quality as well as difficulties in project post-management;

Improving funding management and establishing initiating revolving fund.
All 35 poor counties in which the project is located are financial deficit counties and need state subsidies.
For those counties, it is obviously impossible to provide 25% of the counterpart fund for the project from
their own budget. As the result, the county governments either transferred the burden to the farmers
through labor input and fund collecting fund from the farmers, or managed to obtain replenishment fund by
violating procedures first then to start the project. In fact, these two situations had being existed to
different extent during the project life, which affected normal project implementation and effectiveness to a
certain extent. In the future, it should be considered that the operation of providing counterpart fund by the
counties should be cancelled. For construction of village-level public infrastructures, the counterpart funds
borne by the farmers should be fixed through their self-discussion and self-determination. At the same time,
the project initiating revolving fund should be established, through which the cases like slow progress and
falsification could be fallen off.

Comprehensive utilization of poverty reduction funds.
The poverty reduction funds include fiscal grant fund, budgetary fund form various departments, as well as
loans from the China Agriculture Bank and the World Bank's replenishment fund. Combining the practices
of SWPRP implementation and the village planning undertaking in the new century, it is demanded to have
deep exploration and research on comprehensive utilization of poverty reduction funds. Firstly, based on
the character of separate management system for domestic allocated poverty reduction funds, it is
necessary to stipulate regulations for using of various domestic counterpart funds while the project is
designed, i.e. various counterpart funds admitted for poverty reduction purpose should be guaranteed and
allocated year by year according to the principles of: (1) unified use and focusing on development projects
in poor villages and for the poor households based on the village planning, and (2) the grant funds used for
public services project, while the loans used for projects in production purpose.
Secondly, establishment of a farmers' credit system and an impelling mechanism for loan administration.
With regard to poverty reduction project, a very challenging issue is that if the poor could increase their
income through the project and imburse the loans at the same time. Actually, this issue had not been paid
enough attention to and the households' imbursement rate had been not high at all. Except part of project
activities were not brought into full benefit as expected due to problems in project designing and market
changing, there are still some important factors causing the problem, such as insufficient information
dissemination on imbursement to the farmers and failure in adopting some effective loan administration
measures.
Thirdly, to formulate a mechanism for better utilization of replenishment fund. In light of loan terms, every
unit getting into debt should amortize its loans by equal amount and year within 17 years. Therefore, it is
necessary to conduct serious study on how to make the best use of loans not yet to be imbursed and to bring
the utmost benefit.

The role of TVEs development in poverty reduction should be further considered and explored.
As for the only unsuccessful component in SWPRP, there are many lessons and experiences to be summed
up. Except the impact of the national policies, we should also be concerned about following issues from the
angel of project designing: (1) small-scaled rural market should be established in the project area for


                                                      - 49 -

promoting commodities circulation; (2) project size should not be over large, since the most of the
successful enterprises in three provinces (region) are limited with the size of below 5 million Yuan RMB;
(3) the enterprises established should be in accordance with the requirement of environmental protection
and the state industry development policies; (4) the enterprises ownership should be clear and definite, the
owner should, by all means, have equity capital; (5) the overall arrangements on the issues of operating
funds and credit guarantees for the enterprises should be considered and planed as a whole; (6) in
consideration of ensuring raw materials supply, development of the processing enterprises with close
relevance of local agricultural production should be encouraged; (7) the purchasing procedures should be
further simplified.

More flexibility should be adopted in project adjustment to fit in with the market change.
During the implementation stage, the project's over-planned character had been appeared at times, which
brought about insufficient flexibility while facing the market changing. For example, as the case of labor
migration component, there was a complete and compact plan in the exporting place, the local program was
also organized in an orderly manner from the top down. But due to unpredictable change in the importing
market, it is very difficult to conduct regular monitoring and management on the whole project. With regard
to enterprises and agricultural components, there had all existed situation of missing the best marketing
opportunities resulting from tardy plan modulation progress due to complicated adjustment procedures and
long time procurement courses. Concerning the agricultural component, the method of delivering materials
directly to the farmers instead of loans could be possibly to ensure the project reaching the poor households
and in favor of project implementation. But it would also be a disadvantage for farmers' self-determined
production and fitting in with the market change. A new method should be explored on not defining the
project menus as well as its size, and that only limiting the loan size, giving the farmers an opportunity to
choose the activities by themselves. And the project execution and management agencies will mainly
provide services to the farmers, such as technical training, marketing information dissemination and loan
administration, according to their demand.

Establishing a more effective and complete project monitoring system.
It is suggested that the project monitoring system should be set up just from the starting of the project
preparation stage by combining the base line survey activities. By referring the experiences of Guangxi in
using compute management software into the project monitoring performance, a project monitoring system
that could overall and objectively reflect all contents and indicators during the monitoring process should be
designed, thus the project monitoring instruments and methods could be perfected.




                                                     - 50 -

Additional Annex 11. Village-Based Multisectoral Poverty Reduction Approach

                                                                CHINA
                                    Southwest Poverty Reduction Project

 Many Problems                                                         Many Solutions
                                             The parents of this       Village health stations
                                             family are ill and           can greatly improve
                                             cannot maintain                    health and the
                                             their farm production.        availability of basic
                                             With very little cash      health services. The
                                             income, the family              establishment of
                                             does not have enough     cooperative health care
                                             to eat and the children     programs is a major
                                             cannot attend school.    challenge in the poorest
                                                                                         areas.



   Iodine deficiency and other diseases are                                                                             Small scale water
             more common in the poor and                                                                                storage systems
  mountainous areas, and are an important                                                                               supply drinking
                cause and effect of poverty.                                                                            water during dry
                                                                                                                        season in the Karst
                                                                                                                        Mountains and
                                                                                                                        improve health.




                                             A thatch roof
                                             school building in          School attendance
                                             Pinglan Village.              nearly doubled in
                                                                        Pinglan Village after
                                                                           completion of the
                                                                        new school building.

 Ethnic minority people
            are heavily
       overrepresented
       among the poor.
  Arable land resources
  are often very limited
          and access to                                                                          Labor-intensive small enterprise

       transport is very                                                                         development can provide off-farm

           constrained.                                                                          employment opportunities and a market for
                                                                                                 local farm production. This worker earns
                                                                                                 Y450 (about US$50) per month making
                                             The agricultural                                    mosquito coils from ground tree leaves.
                                             resource base in some
                                             parts of the Karst
                                             Mountains is not
                                             adequate for even         Village-based
                                             subsistence                      manual
                                             production.                construction
                                             Overgrazing and              of rock-wall
                                             fuelwood collection        terraces can
                                             contributes to                  increase
                                             devegetation of the           agricultural
                                             hillsides and some          productivity,
                                             cases, severe             but is a costly
                                             environmental                   solution.
                                             collapse.




                                                                - 51 -

- 52 -

