                                                                                                                    92553
China: The Fight against Poverty                                                                                    May 3, 2004
                      Millions in rural southwestern China have been uplifted from the vicious
                                                                                                          -- Resources --
                      cycle of poverty by an innovative and exhaustive poverty reduction
                      program that, for the first time in China, put money directly into villages,        Full Story (PDF)
                                                                                                          English | Chinese
                      financing initiatives the residents themselves suggested. From water
                                                                                                          Project
                      storage tanks, to new schools, jobs and job training.
                                                                                                          The World Bank in China

                                                                                                          Also available in:
                                                                                                          Español | Français



                                        “Annual income averages 250 yuan [about $30] per year.”
                                                                                  --Tan Zhi An
Wei Ming Rui and Tan Zhi An have never met, despite living only an hour apart as the crow flies in
their respective villages of Nongxiang and Nongma in Southwest China. But they share similar
experiences. Before water tanks were built, they spent backbreaking hours carrying water. Now, with
the tanks guaranteeing a supply, they can concentrate on business. Wei, 45, still makes the journey
through the Stony Mountains, but now, instead of water on his shoulder pole, he carries chairs, which
he sells for $1 each at the market. Tan’s village has bought livestock, and the residents have taken
out loans to buy fertilizer. Yearly income has jumped to 250 yuan (about $30) from 200 yuan.


                       “Everything has been uplifted: not just the teaching but the entire educational atmosphere.”
                       -- Lu Jian Jun
                       Long Shi School looks like an old, abandoned stone train station. The roof over an entire wing has
                       collapsed. The students are barefoot. “This is horrible, the worst place I have ever taught. There are
                       no lights. Conditions are miserable,” says the school’s principal Wei Jin Shou, 50. A decade ago,
                       schools like Long Shi were commonplace. Now schools like the nearby San Li School—one of 1,600
                       that have been upgraded—are more the norm. The 230 children attending San Li sit at proper desks;
                       the teachers have real chalk and blackboards. The school’s principal Lu Jian Jun is enthusiastic.
                       “Everything has been uplifted: not just the teaching but the entire educational atmosphere.”


                                             “If the farmer isn’t interested, the project won’t work.”
                                                                                          --Alan Piazza
When Alan Piazza first started working in Duan County in Southwest China with the World Bank, he
felt he had been given a hopeless task. Such was the diversity of the challenges and the entrenched
nature of poverty in the area. Ten years on, he says the results have been “earth-shattering.” Official
Chinese figures say poverty has fallen from 31.5 percent to 12.9 percent between 1995 and 2001.
But Piazza says that he learned one thing early on: “If the farmer isn’t interested, the project won’t
work. Listen to the villagers.” Almost without exception, the farmers wanted a job. Piazza’s team
helped them find work in China’s booming cities. So far, these new workers have sent over $163
million home to their relatives.


                       “Market share is rising.”
                       --Qin Qi Yang
                       To create jobs in places such as remote Duan County in Southwest China is so challenging, Chinese
                       and World Bank officials have had to think outside the box. One innovative job creation project
                       involved financing a bottling line and warehouse for the Yaoling Winery. The winery crushes a wild
                       grape that grows in the neighboring hills. Picking the grapes has become a promising source of
                       income for the local residents. And the wine’s popularity is growing. Managing director Qin Qi Yang
                       says, “Market share is rising, and foreign distributors are developing a nose for these unique
                       vintages.”


Updated May, 2004
