CREDIT NUMBER 2744 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Southwest Poverty Reduction Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2744 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    L\, 1995, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA     (he Borrower) and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and, by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty
seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($47,500,000) (the
Loan);
WHEREAS (C) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower,
through the Borrower's Leading Group Office for Poverty Alleviation,
at the national level, and at the provincial level by Guangxi,
Guizhou and Yunnan    (each as herein defined)    (said provinces
hereinafter collectively referred to as the Project Provinces and
individually as Project Province) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Guangxi the proceeds of the Loan and to the Project Provinces a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
WHEREAS (D) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Loan
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.    The  "General  Conditions Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association dated January 1,


﻿- 2 -
1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b) The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Beihai", "Fangcheng" and "Nanning" mean, respectively,
Beihai   Municipality,   Fengcheng   Municipality   and   Nanning
Municipality, each a political subdivision of the Borrower in
Guangxi, and any successors thereto.
(b) "BPREZ" means the Beihai Poverty Reduction Enterprise Zone
established by Beihai, and any successor thereto.
(c) "Guangxi" means the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.
(d) "Guizhou" means the Guizhou Province, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.
(e) "LGOPA" means the Leading Group Office for Poverty
Alleviation of the Borrower.
(f) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the
"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of


﻿- 3 -
the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(g) "PMOs" means the project management offices maintained by
each of the Project Provinces in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph of A.2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(h) "Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower with each of Guangxi, Guizhou
and Yunnan in accordance with-Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement.
(i) "Special Accounts" means the Borrower Credit Special
Account and the Borrower Loan Special Account, collectively,
established pursuant to Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement, and
"Special Account" means either of the Special Accounts.
(j) "TVEs" means township and village enterprises in each of
the Project Provinces participating under Part E of the Project.
(k) "WBPO" means the World Bank Project Office maintained by
LGOPA in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A.1 of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(1)  "Yunnan" means   the  Yunnan  Province,  a   political
subdivision of the Borrower, and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred twenty eight million, six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 128,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts, for Parts A,
B.1, C, D, E and F and for Part B.2 respectively, in a bank on terms
and  conditions   satisfactory  to  the   Association,  including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment, to be
known as the Borrower Credit Special Account and the Borrower Loan
Special Account respectively. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions-of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2005 and ending March 1, 2030.       Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i) carry out the Project at the national level through
LGOPA, and shall cause the Project Provinces to carry
out the Project at the provincial and county levels, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate   administrative,    financial,   health,
education,   labor,  agricultural,  engineering   and
environmental protection and management practices; and
(ii) provide, promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources, required for the Project.
(b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried
out at the provincial and county levels pursuant to a project
implementation agreement, acceptable to the Association, to be
entered into between the Borrower and each Project Province, under
which:
(i)   the  Project  Province  shall  carry  out   its
respective parts of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate     administrative,     financial,
engineering, health, education, agricultural,
labor and environmental practices, and shall
provide,   promptly  as   needed,   the  funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources
required;
(ii) the Project Province shall establish and maintain
the   provincial   level   project   management
organizations as set out in paragraph A.2 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
. (iii) the proceeds of the Credit for the respective
parts of the Project shall be made available to


﻿- 7 -
the Project Province on the terms and conditions
set forth in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(iv) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
fail  to   enforce,    or   waive  any  Project
Implementation  Agreement   or   any  provision
thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit required to carry out the Project at the provincial and
county levels to each Project Province on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including the following principal
terms and conditions: (i) repayment within twenty (20) years,
including six (6) years of grace; (ii) interest to be paid on the
amounts withdrawn from time to time at a fixed rate of two percent
(2%) per annum; (iii) commitment fee to be paid on the unwithdrawn
amount from time to time at the rate of half of one percent (0.5%);
and (iv) all foreign exchange risks incurred during the period of
repayment by each of the Project Provinces shall be paid by said
Project Province.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project shall be carried out by the Project Provinces
pursuant to the Project Implementation Agreements, and by the
Borrower in respect of the Project being carried out at the national
level.
(b) The Borrower shall provide to the Association annual
consolidated reports with request to carrying out the obligations
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section by the Project
Provinces.
Section 3.04, Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:


﻿-8-
(a) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six(6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project;
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c) thereafter, carry out the said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound   accounting  practices  the   operations,  resources   and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, and the Project Provinces responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with   appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall;
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)  enable   the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure   that  such  records and   accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph Cb) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal control
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 Ch) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
a party to a Project Implementation Agreement shall have failed to
perform its obligations under such Project Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.


﻿10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Implementation Agreement for each Project
Province shall have been executed on behalf of such Project Province
and the Borrower; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02.   The following is specified as an. additional
matter within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished   to   the  Association,   namely,   that  the   Project
Implementation Agreements provided to the Association pursuant to
Section 6.01(a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified and executed and delivered on behalf of all parties thereto
and are legally binding on the parties thereto in accordance with
their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN                              22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                               197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By           Ck.,~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                      /40' C HPL
Regional vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the       Amount of the
Credit Allocated     Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)   Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) (a) Works, including     20,760,000                        209
crop establish-
ment and livestock
maintenance
(other than
for Part B.2
of the Project)
(b) Works for Part B.2       ------       21,300,000       55%
of the Project
(2) (a) Goods (other         57,660,000                        100% of foreign
than under                                              expenditures,
Part B.2 of                                             100% of local
of the                                                 e,;nditures (ex-
Pzoject)                                                factory cost) and
75% of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally.
(b) Goods for                ------       24,800,000       100% of foreign
Part B.2 of                                             expenditures,
the Project                                             100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
75% of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured locally.


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the      Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category          SDR Equivalent)   Dollar Eguivalent)   to be Financed
(3) Tuition assistance      10,950,000            ------       100%
and medical
assistance
under Part A
of the Project
(4) (a) Consultants'         8,420,000            ------      100%
services,
training (other
than under Part
B.1 of the
Project) and
study tours, other
than under Part B.2
of the Project
(b) Consultants'            ------           700,000       100%
services and
training under
Part B.2 of
the Project
(5) Research                 4,950,000            ------       50%
contracts
(6) Labor training          23,080,000            ------       70%
and placement
under Part B.1
of the Project
(7) Operating costs          1,480,000            ------       50%
for project
management
(8) Unallocated              1,300,000           700,000
Total                   128,600,000       47,500,000


﻿- 15 -
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
(c) "crop establishment and livestock maintenance" means the
expenditures incurred in accordance with the crop establishment and
livestock maintenance program under Part D of the Project;
(d)  "tuition  assistance   and  medical  assistance"   means
expenditures for tuition fees and medical assistance (including
salary supplements and bonuses and medical services) under Part A of
the Project;
(e) "research contracts" means expenditures incurred for
research activities under Parts D and F of the Project;
(f) "labor training and placement" means expenditures incurred
for transport costs, fees and other costs to be met by relocating
workers under Part B.1 of the Project; and
(g) "operating costs for project management" means expenditures
for office consumables (including telephone, facsimile and other
communications expenses), staff travel and associated subsistence of
the project management offices (excluding salaries and the cost of
premises) to be calculated in accordance with procedures approved by
the Association.
3. Notwithstanding   the provisions of paragraph    1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 12,860,000 and $ 4,750,000, respectively, may be made on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January
1, 1995.
4. The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods under each contract not exceeding


﻿- 16 -
$200,000 equivalent; (ii) works under each contract not exceeding
$2,000,000 equivalent; (iii) consultants' services by firms under
each contract not exceeding $100, 000 equivalent; (iv) for individual
consultants under each contract not exceeding $50,000 equivalent;
(v) for training; (vi) for operating costs for project management;
(vii) for research contracts; (viii) for labor training and
placement;  and   (ix)  for  crop  establishment  and   livestock
maintenance; in each case under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The  objectives of   the  Project  are   to:  (i)  develop  a
multisectoral rural development project approach to poverty
reduction; (ii) facilitate an increase in labor mobility from the
poor areas to better off rural and rapidly growing urban areas based
on market incentives; (iii) upgrade poverty monitoring at the
national and local levels; (iv) significantly reduce absolute
poverty in thirty five of the very poorest counties in southwestern
China; and (v) counteract upland environmental destruction through
land and pasture improvement and soil conservation works.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Strengthening of Education and Health Services
1. Facilitating the development of locally-managed education
systems for, and enhancing the delivery of primary education to, the
poor at the village level through:
(a) primary school renovation and construction;
(b) supporting tuition assistance and nutritional supplements for
poor students;
(c) the  provision  of textbooks, instructional    equipment  and
furniture;
(d) salary support for additional teaching staff; and
(e) teacher and management training.
2. Facilitating the development of locally funded and managed
health systems and enhancing their quality and access, for the poor
at the village level through, inter alia:
(a) facility construction and renovation, provision of equipment for
new health clinics and equipment upgrading at existing health
clinics;
(b) the establishing of cooperative health funds;


﻿- 18 -
(c) the training of health administrators at the county and
provincial level and of staff of village level health centers;
and
(d) strengthening of public health programs in disease prevention
and control and maternal and child health.
Part B: Improving Rural Voluntary Labor Mobility
1. Facilitating voluntary labor mobility through, inter alia:
(a) developing demand-driven job placement systems emphasizing local
markets;
(b) promoting on-the-job training by enterprises on a cost
reimbursement basis; and
(c) strengthening monitoring capabilities with respect to worker
safety and living conditions.
2. Supporting municipal employment generation for the upland rural
poor in Guangxi through:
(a) supporting job-creation initiatives in small and medium sized,
labor intensive industrial and agricultural enterprises in
Beihai, Nanning and Fangcheng; and
(b) supporting  the   provision  of   affordable   non-subsidized
accommodation for single migrant workers in Fangcheng and
Nanning.
Part C: Upgrading Rural Infrastructure
Upgrading rural infrastructure facilities through, inter alia:
(a) constructing  approximately  1,600  km  of   roads  to   link
approximately 565 villages in remote mountainous areas to existing
country roads;
(b) constructing low-cost water supply facilities for approximately
663,000 people in about 990 villages;
(c) increasing access to electricity and alternative forms of energy
through (i) the erection and installation of approximately 875 km of


﻿- 19 -
transmission lines and associated equipment, and (ii) and the
provision of bio-gas digesters and improved stoves; and
(d) constructing and improving soil conservation, irrigation and
drainage works for approximately 15,600 ha of existing and new rice
paddy and upland crops, including the upgrading of the irrigation
capacity of the Fengguo Reservoir system in Yunnan.
..art D: Upgrading Land Use and Farmer Incomes
Generating sustainable increases in agricultural incomes for
approximately 600,000 households through, inter alia:
(a)     extending improved agriculture and smallholder livestock
management techniques and inputs to approximately 300,000
households;
(b)    establishment of tree crop nurseries and provision of
saplings and tree crop management extension (for high
altitude and red soil varieties);
(c)    intensification of staple crop production on available flat
land;
(d)    terracing for improved water and soil conservation; and
(e)    providing extension and farmer training     services and
enhancing agricultural research.
Part E: Developing Town and Village Enterprises
Augmenting off-farm employment opportunities in small towns and
rural areas through investment in approximately 210 labor-intensive
commercially viable agro-processing, mineral, service and handicraft
TVEs and farmers markets.
Part F: Institution Building and Poverty Monitoring
1. Institutional strengthening of LGOPA and the PMOs with respect
to their capabilities in project design and implementation,
procurement, accounting and monitoring and evaluation techniques.
2. Establishing a poverty monitoring system for the Project
Provinces with the capacity to provide comprehensive poverty
profiles, analyze the accuracy of targeting benefits to the absolute


﻿- 20 -
poor and to measure and evaluate the impact of Parts A through E of
the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1. Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provision of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2. The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a) Grouping of Contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for
goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost
$200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b) Preference for domestically manufactured goods The provision of
paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1. Limited International Bidding
Contracts for pesticides and specialized agroprocessing and
research equipment, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$7,000,000, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from
a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may
be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the
Guidelines.


﻿- 22 -
2. National Competitive Bidding
(a) Goods, other than vehicles, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $73,000,000, and (b) works, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $70,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
3. National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract,
up to $15,400,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
4. Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the
Guidelines, and costing $142,000,000 equivalent or less in the
aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried
out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, Procurement of all goods and works
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Association and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2. Prior Review
With respect to each contract for (i) works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more, (ii) goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and (iii) the first three
contracts for goods and works to be awarded by each of the Project
Provinces under National Competitive Bidding procedures, the


﻿- 23 -
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3. Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Emloyment of Consultants
1. Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank ane Borrower and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association.    Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contracts value to $100,000 equivalent to above,
or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A. Overall Project Management
1. The Borrower shall maintain the WBPO to manage overall Project
implementation including procurement, accounting and training
activities, with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association, staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers.
2. The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces:
(a) to maintain a project management office at the provincial and
county level to undertake day-to-day implementation and
coordination  of  Project   activities, with   functions  and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association, staffed by
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers; and
(b) to prepare and furnish to the Association for review a detailed
statement of approved budgetary allocations, by December 1 of
each year, for Project implementation for the following year.
B. Project IMplementation
1. Overall Implementation
(a) The Borrower shall ensure that the local and overseas training
and study tours and consultants' services shall be provided in
accordance with plans agreed with the Association, and, to that end,
shall cause WBPO to prepare and furnish to the Association by
December 1 of each year the proposed plans for training, study tours
and technical assistance under the Project for the next calendar
year.
(b)    The Borrower shall ensure that all Project activities shall
conform to environmental standards and guidelines, including the
environmental regulations and guidelines issued by the National
Environmental Protection Agency and its Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau, satisfactory to the Association. To that end,
the Borrower shall implement, and ensure that each of the Project
Provinces implement, its respective portion of the Environmental
Assessment Report in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that:


﻿- 25 -
(i) all proposed land acquisitions under the Project are
reviewed by the relevant provincial, prefectural or county
land administration bureaus in accordance with existing
national regulations of the Borrower; and
(ii) all persons whose rights to land and other assets are
compulsorily acquired under the Project receive adequate
compensation for assets, in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
To this end the Borrower shall ensure that the Project Provinces
shall cause their respective PMOs:
(A)   to notify the Association through the WBPO of any acquisition
of land and other assets which will result from the Project;
(B)   prior to undertaking any such acquisition, to submit to the
Association for approval through the WBPO the compensation plan
relative to such acquisition; and
(C)   to implement the approved acquisition and compensation plan.
(d)   The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis in accordance
with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;
(ii) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about
April 30, 1997, a report integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph (i) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii)   review with the Association by June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall request, the report
referred to in paragraph (ii) of this Section , and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the


﻿- 26 -
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's
views on the matter.
2.    Implementation of Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Provinces:
(i)   make appropriate arrangements acceptable to the Association
for the financing on a grant basis of annual tuition fees for
approximately 90,000 primary school students selected on the
basis of criteria acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) establish and thereafter maintain and fund on an adequate
basis cooperative health care funds in eligible villages, all
as determined on the basis of criteria acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Implementation of Part B.1 of the Project
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)   the relocation of all persons shall be undertaken only on a
strictly voluntary basis on the basis of consultation
procedures and relocation arrangements acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) finalize and implement, by no later than September 15, 1995
revised monitoring and reporting systems at the national,
provincial and county level, based on an assessment of
existing reporting systems for the treatment of relocated
persons, including with respect to non-discriminating labor
practices and work place safety;
(iii) by March 15 and September 15 of each year, commencing
September  15,   1995, a   comprehensive  relocated persons
monitoring report covering relocation under Part B.1 of the
Project during the preceding 6 month period be forwarded to
the Association for its review and comment.


﻿- 27 -
4.    Implementation of Part B.2 of the Project
(a)   The Borrower shall ensure that an enterprise shall be eligible
for financing under Part B.2 of the Project only upon its
agreement with Beihai, Nanning or Fancheng, as the case may
be, to (A) a business development plan providing for at least
seventy percent (70%) of full-time jobs to be reserved for
persons relocated under Part B.1 of the Project, and (B)
onlending terms that provide for the payment of interest at a
rate no less than the prevailing rate charged by the
Agricultural Development Bank of China for loans for similar
payments and similar maturities.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)  Beihai undertakes a program for site and building sales and
leases for BPREZ acceptable to the Association, which program
shall provide, inter alia, that funding may only be made
available in respect of expenditures for buildings to be sold
or rented when a pre-sale or pre-lease agreement (as the case
may be) has been concluded with respect to at least 50% of the
floor space concerned;
(ii) low-income housing to be provided under Part B.2 of the
Project is designed and constructed in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Association; and
(iii) for the first 10 years after the completion of buildings under
Part B.2 of the Project at least 70% of the units in each of
said buildings be rented to relocated workers from the Project
areas, as determined in accordance with criteria acceptable to
the Association.
5.    Implementation of Part C of the Project
The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to (a)
ensure that the designs and construction of each dam constructed or
improved under the Project in their respective territories exceeding
10 meter in heicrht or 2,500,000 cubic meters in storage volume are
independently reviewed for safety; and (b) ensure that all dams
rehabilitated or constructed in their respective territories under
the Project be operated, maintained or inspected periodically in
accordance with sound engineering practice, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 28 -
6.    Implementation of Part D of the Project
(a)   The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to
grant or cause to be granted to each household unit which
participates under Part D of the Project the exclusive right to use
the land upon which Project activities are to be undertaken by such
household for a term of not less than 50 years (in the case of
wastelands and other lands planted with perennial crops under Part
D of the Project) and not less than 30 years (in the case of
existing cropped lands).
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)   all pesticides acquired under the Project shall have
been approved by the Association; and
(ii)  the storage, handling, distribution and use of such
pesticides shall be consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the
Association.
7.    Implementation of Part E of the Project
(a)   The Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces:
(i)   to ensure that the provincial environmental protection bureau
(A) determines which enterprises under Part E of the Project
require effluent treatment facilities and (B) requires such
enterprises to make prompt arrangements for the design and
installation of such facilities;
(ii) to ensure that the final designs for effluent treatment for
each plant under the Project have been approved by the
relevant provincial environmental protection bureau prior to
beginning construction of such plant; and
(iii) to ensure that each such enterprise shall monitor and treat
effluents from such plants adequately before disposal, under
the supervision of such bureau.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the provincial financial
departments of the Project Provinces shall relend a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit to enterprises under Part E of the Project
through the local finance bureaux in the form of loans bearing
interest at rates of no less than the prevailing rate charged by the


﻿- 29 -
Agricultural Development Bank of China for loans for similar
purposes and for similar maturities.


﻿- 30 -
ScEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means (i) for the Borrower
Credit Special Account, Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3), (4) (a), (5),
(6) and (7) for the Borrower Loan Special Account, Categories 1(b),
2(b) and 4(b); and (ii) all as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
(i) $11,000,000 for the Borrower Credit Special Account; and (ii)
$3,000,000 for the Borrower Loan Special Account; to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, and
deposited into the respective Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation with
respect to (i) the Borrower Credit Special Account and (ii) the
Borrower Loan Special Account, shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 and $1,500,000, respectively, until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from (i) the Credit Account and (ii)
the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 40,000,000 and $10,000,000
respectively.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the


﻿- 31 -
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into said Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account, as the case may be, and deposit into the said Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into said
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments In respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as
the case may be, and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of said
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph    3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article


﻿- 32 -
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b) if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or to the
Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for said Special Account;
(c) if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account, as the case may be, pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
(d) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the
Loan, as the case may be, allocated to the eligible Categories,
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation for
the relevant Special Account.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account, as the case may be, of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit or the Loan, as the case may be, allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into a Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association or
the Bank, as the case may be) an amount equal to the amount of such


﻿- 33 -
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into said Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association or the Bank, as the case may be, such outstanding
amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in a Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


