Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14510-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
JUNE 16, 1995
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(May 1995)
Currency Unit     =        Gourde (G)
US$1.00           =       G 14.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERIMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 -September 30
GLOSSARY AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP            Agence d'Ex6cution de Travaux d'Int6rgt Publique (Executing Agency for Public Interest
Works)
ALERTE            Association pour la Lutte contre l'Erosion et pour la Rahabilitation Totale de
l'Environnement (Association for the Fight Against Erosion and for the Total Rehabilitation
of the Environment)
ASMR              L'Amicale des St. Marcois Rdunis (The Union of St. Mark's Followers Friendship
Association)
ASSODLO           Association pour la Maitrise de l'Eau du Sol (Association for Groundwater Management)
BHM               Baptist Haitian Mission
CASEC             Conseil d'Administration des Sections Communales (Commune Administrative Councils)
CCCPV             Confederation of Community Councils of Petionville
CCDVA             Community Councils for the Development of the Artibonite Valley
CECI              Canadian Center for International Studies and Cooperation
CEHPAPE           Haitian Center for Agriculture and Environmental Protection
CG                Consultative Group for Haiti
CHF               Cooperative Housing Foundation
CIU               Central Implementation Unit (of Prime Minister's Office)
CODEVA            Le Coude-i-Coude pour le Ddveloppement de la Vall6e (The Elbow-to-Elbow Association
for the Development of the Valley)
CSMG              Comit6 de Support i la Mairie de Gonalves (Gonalves Municipal Government Support
Committee)
DCCH              Ddveloppement Communautaire Chr6tien Hattien (Haitian Christian Community
Development)
EA                Environmental Assessment
EERP              Emergency Economic Recovery Program
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
ESF               Economic and Social Fund
FAES              Fond d'Action Economique et Sociale (French acronym for ESF)



FEGA              La Fondation d'Entreaide de la Grand'Anse (Grand'Anse Mutual Help Foundation)
GASC              Group d'Appui en Sanl6 Communautaire (Community Health Support Group)
GOH               Government of Haiti
GRAPES            Group for Action to Protect the Environment in the South
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA               Intemnational Development Association
IDB               Inter-Ameiican Development Bank
10               Implementation Organization
MCC               Mennonite Central Committee
MDOD              Maitre d'Ouvrage D6ligu6 (French acronym for PMA)
MOA               Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development
MODECOD           Mouvement de D6veloppement Communautaire de Doris (Doris Community Development
Movement)
MOF               Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTPTC             Nlinist6re des fravaux Publics, Transport et Communications (Ministry of Public Works,
Transport and Communications)
NIF               Not IDA-Financed
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NEAP              National Environmental Action Plan
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
NPV               Net Present Value
O&M               Operations and Maintenance
ODEE              Organisation de DNveloppement et d'Education Evangdlique (Development and Evangelic
Education Organization)
PADF              Pan American Development Foundation
PMA               Project Management Agency
PMO               Prinme Minister's Office
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
PURE              Programme d'ljrgence de Rdactivation Economique (French acronym for EERP)
SAC               Structural Adjustment Credit
SEPIC             Service Professionnel Integrd de la Paix des Bouquets (Paix des Bouquets Integrated
Professional Service)
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SOPABO            Solidariit des Paysans de Boucon Cove (Boucon Cove Peasant Solidarity)
TAC               Technical Assistance Credit



TOR               Terms of Reference
UCG               Unitd Centrale de Gestion (French acronym for CIU)
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
USAID             United States Agency for International Development



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUtMMARY  ....................    i
I.  Country Overview   ...............................   I
Economic Setting   ...............................   1
Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy  .................   3
Government Agencies and Other Organizations  .............   6
Lessons Learned  ................................   8
II.  The Project ...................................  11
Origin  ......................................  11
Objectives ....................................  11
Summary Description  .............................  11
Rationale for IDA  Involvement .......................  12
Detailed Description   ............................. 12
E,mployment Generation  .......................... 12
Institutional Development ......................... 14
Costs ............................ 15
Financing    ....................................   15
Procurement  .................................. 17
Disbursements ............................. 20
Accounts and Auditing  ............................  21
Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation   ......                    ............  21
III.  Project Analysis   ...............................   23
Economic analysis ...............................   23
Social aspects   ................................   23
Environmental aspects   .          ...........................  24
Sustainability  ................................    24
Summary of project benefits   .              .......................  25
Risks ................................. 25
IV.  Agreements and Recommendation  ......                          ..............  27
This report is based on preparation, appraisal aind negotiations missionis to Haiti in May-June 1995
consisting of Michael Baxter, Mark Cackler, Luis Constantino, Cora Shaw. Andrea Silverman (LA2NR),
Axel Peuker, Wendeline De Zan (LA2CO), David Varela (LEGLA), Morag Van Praag (LOAEL) and
L.M. Garry Charlier (consultant). The responsible managers are Michael Baxter (Division Chief),
Kreszentia Duer (Projects Adviser) and Edilberto Segura (Director).



TABLES IN TEXT
Table 2.1 Procurement
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Employment Generation Component
Attachment: Eligibility Criteria for PMAs
Tables:
1. Distribution of Component Costs
2. Monthly Projections
Charts:
1. Subproject Cycle
2. Fund Flows for Subprojects
3. Fund Flows for Institutional Development Component
Annex 2:   Institutional Development Component
Attachment: Decentralization Policies and Structure of Local Government in Haiti
Charts:
1. CIU Organization Chart
2. PADF Organization Chart
Terms of Reference:
1. Half-yearly evaluations
2. Economic evaluation of project investments
Annex 3:   Costs, Financing and Disbursement
Tables:
1. Summary Costs by Component
2. Annual Costs by Component
3. Institutional Development Costs
4. Financing Plan
5. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
6. Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
Annex 4:   Project Reporting
Tables:
1. Implementation and Impact Indicators
2. Financial Indicators
3. Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants
Annex 5:   Documents in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 27090               Haiti - Physical Features
IBRD No. 27091               Haiti - Administrative Divisions



- ill -
HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Haiti
Implementing Agency:         Central Implementation Unit of
Prime Minister's Office
Beneficiary:                 Not applicable
Poverty Category:            Program of Targeted Interventions (see para. 2.6)
Amount:                      SDR 31.8 million (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:              0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning
60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:              See para. 2.14
Net Present Value            See paras. 3.1-3.4
Maps:                        IBRD No. 27090 Haiti - Physical Features
IBRD No. 27091 Haiti - Administrative Divisions
Project ID No.:              HA-PA-41583



I



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Country Overview
1.1    Economic Setting. Haiti is a small, densely populated, predominately rural,
and open economy. Its seven million people occupy 28,000 square kilometers, on the
western end of the island of Hispaniola. With an estimated GDP per capita of below
US$250 in 1994, Haiti is the poorest and most densely populated nation in the Western
Hemisphere. Social indicators are alarming. In 1994, an estimated 50% of the
population had a caloric intake of below 75% of requirements, and over 25% of
children suffered from malnutrition. The infant mortality rate is estimated to exceed
100 per 1,000 live births. Some 50% of adult Haitians are illiterate. Net of emigration
of 0.5%, the population grew at a rate of 1.8% per year in the 1980s. Estimates of
unemployment are as high as 70%.
1.2    During 1980-91, Haiti's population suffered a continuing decline in its standard
of living, with real per capita incomes falling by about 2% per year. Over decades,
population pressure and poor public policies forced cultivation of increasingly marginal
lands, and in turn accelerated deforestation and soil erosion. As a result, agricultural
production, the main source of income of the 70% of the population who live in rural
areas, has fallen steadily on a per capita basis since the 1970s. Initially, industrial
expansion compensated for the decline in agriculture. In the second half of the 1970s,
a major expansion in the export industry together with increasing public investment
allowed the country to grow at a rate of about 3% per capita. However, political
instability during most of the 1980s put a stop to industrial expansion, external
assistance and, consequently, to growth and investment.
1.3    Political stalemate during the 1991-1994 period coupled with the international
embargo on Haiti aggravated the economic decline. In 1990, President Aristide was
democratically elected and took office in February 1991. His Government undertook
some measures to improve fiscal revenues, liberalize trade and improve infrastructure
services, and initiated discussions on an IMF stand-by agreement.  However, in
September 1991, a military-led coup d'etat forced President Aristide from office and
into exile. During the following three years. increased economic mismanagement and
international rejection led to an international embargo, resulting in a dramatic decline
in living standards. On October 16, 1994, President Aristide was able to return to
Haiti, and on November 7, 1994. a new constitutional Government was appointed.
During this period, economic performance deteriorated at an accelerated pace.
Preliminary data indicate that real GDP fell by over 17% during 1992-93, and by a
further 10% in 1994. The situation worsened further when tropical storm Gordon hit



- 2 -
Haiti on November 12, 1994.  Agricultural production and exports decreased
considerably. Export oriented industries were devastated by the embargo. Value-added
in the services sector decreased in line with GDP, and construction activities came to
a virtual standstill.
1.4    Upon its reestablishment, the Constitutional Government presented a coherent
economic and social rehabilitation program to face the problems and challenges ahead,
and the international donor community confirmed support for the Government's reform
efforts. Apart from the preparation of the rehabilitation program, these include the
creation of an election council and legislation to prepare parliamentary elections, an
agreement with the IMF on a stand-by arrangement, and the initiation of economic
policy reforms. At the January 1995 Consultative Group (CG) Meeting held in Paris,
and again at the CG Follow-up Meeting in Port-au-Prince in May 1995, donors
pledged and confirmed over US$1.5 billion in support of the Government's efforts.
US$330 million of this assistance has been disbursed. There was a broad consensus
regarding the difficult challenges facing Haiti, and the donor community has supported
the objectives and priorities established by the Government. Donors also agreed on the
financial and technical requirements for the rehabilitation effort. At the CG Follow-up
Meeting, IDA provided a brief outline of its assessment of Haiti's economic and social
conditions, and its strategy to support the Government in key sectors.  IDA also
reconfirmed its commitment to poverty alleviation by announcing its support for an
immediate Employment Generation Project, which would build on a successful USAID-
financed JOBS Creation Project, soon to be completed.
1.5    Development Strategy. Government's stated development objectives are (a)
sustained growth and employment creation; (b) poverty alleviation and broad access to
social services; and (c) environmental rehabilitation. The Government wants to achieve
these objectives in a framework of national reconciliation and respect for democratic
rule. It also has committed itself to a comprehensive privatization program and policy
reforms to support private sector development. The Government further intends to
strengthen the ability of the state to deliver basic services through public service reform
and decentralization. It also aims to cooperate with non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) in the provision of services. Finally, the Government has expressed great
concern over the country's poor environmental conditions.
1.6    To address the current economic crisis and move toward its development
objectives, the Government has (a) been implementing an emergency assistance program
to provide for basic needs through import finance, civil works and technical assistance;
and (b) agreed with the IMF on a stand-by arrangement. The assistance program was
prepared in close collaboration with a multi-agency task force, including IDA. It
covers the areas of governance, economic assistance and humanitarian aid and is
estimated to cost US$586 million. As a first step to facilitate implementation and
strengthen the country's weak absorptive capacity, the Government established, by
Executive Decree issued December 20, 1994, in the context of IDA's Emergency
Economic Recovery Credit (EERC; Cr. 2670-HA), an emergency Central
Implementation Unit (CIU; in French, the Unite Centrale de Gestion - UCG) in the
Prime Minister's Office (PMO).



1.7    Provided the Government succeeds in implementing its reform agenda and the
pledged assistance is absorbed in a timely manner, the economic outlook for Haiti
would be favorable, and growth rates of over 5 percent per year could be expected
during 1995-99. In the short-term, growth policies would aim at initiating economic
recovery through donor financed rehabilitation activities and reactivation of the
agricultural sector.  In the medium-term, the country could enjoy a comparative
advantage in labor-intensive assembly and service industries, some areas of agriculture
and tourism. However, in the short term, and given the reduced investment and the
structural problems of the rural sector, the reform agenda would not provide the jobs
necessary to compensate for the employment losses caused by the manufacturing exodus
during the embargo, the dissolution of the Armed Forces and the general loss of
revenue opportunities during the economic depression. The embargo and economic
decline have been especially hard on the rural and urban poor and the disadvantaged
groups have few prospects for improvement in the short term. Moreover, extreme
poverty puts at risk emerging democratic institutions.
1.8    Poverty Alleviation Strategy. As noted above, Haiti is the poorest country in
the Western Hemisphere. Because of pervasive poverty and the need for political
reconciliation, Haiti's development strategy focuses on poverty alleviation in a context
of social harmony. It is estimated that 60-65% of households in Port-au-Prince, and
65-70% of households in rural areas fall below the poverty line; since 1991, this level
has been aggravated by the embargo and by poor economic and social policies.
1.9    To address these problems the Government has emphasized a commitment to
comprehensive poverty alleviation activities, focusing, in particular, on rural areas
where most of the poor are located. This would entail providing income earning
opportunities to the poor in the context of sustained growth and better targeting and
delivering social programs to the poor. To achieve this, it would be critical that donor
financed projects, including IDA, generate income for the poor during the transition
period to political and economic stability, when private led employment and economic
growth would pick up the slack in the economy.
Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy
1.10   The Bank Group's assistance to Haiti involves a two-pronged approach. In the
short-term, IDA has provided emergency financing EERC, and has worked quickly to
reactivate earlier projects in the country. Particular attention is being paid to aid
coordination, to assist the Government in mobilizing additional financing for the
broader Emergency Economic Recovery Program (EERP) and in ensuring that donor
efforts are complementary rather than duplicative. At the same time, with a view to
the medium-term, IDA is working with the Government on the formulation of
strategies for structural reforms essential to reviving growth, poverty alleviation and
environmental rehabilitation. In view of the continued urgent need for emergency
relief, IDA is proposing to bridge the transition from short- to medium-term assistance
with the proposed Employment Generation Project (Chapter 2). Strategically, the
project would not only serve to boost economic recovery and alleviate poverty, but
would also provide upstream assistance to facilitate the implementation of the



-4 -
Government's economic policy reform program, to be supported in FY96 by a Second
Structural Adjuistment Credit (SAC 11) and a complementary Second Technical
Assistance Credit (TA C 11).
1.11   Reviving Growth. Haiti's development agenda is formidable. The country
is characterized by debilitated institutions, large macroeconomic imbalances, depleted
productive assets, a dilapidated infrastructure, alarming social indicators, pervasive
poverty and a degraded environment. Reviving growth will be key, because only in the
context of a successful growth strategy will the Government be able to address the
nexus of poverty and environmental degradation which afflicts, in particular, the rural
population. Some of the ingredients of a growth strategy would entail: (a) facilitating
private sector development; (b) strengthening institutional capacity; and (c)
rehabilitating basic infrastructure. The prerequisite for private sector-led development
in Haiti will be to nurture private sector confidence -- which in turn will depend on
good governance and economic policy reforms developed through intensive dialogue
between the Government, private sector and trade unions. IDA is already engaged in
an intensive policy dialogue with the Government.  Jointly with the International
Monetary Fund, IDA would assist the Government in elaborating this agenda in the
context of a 1995-97 Policy Framework Paper. IDA would then propose the SAC II,
supported by TAC 11, both in FY96.
1.12   Strengthening the institutional capacity to absorb foreign assistance and
improve delivery of public services will be vital for Haiti's growth prospects.
Currently, the public sector is over-extended, poorly organized, and suffers from a
dearth of technical and management expertise. For IDA, the above-mentioned TAC II
would focus on the key agencies involved in economic policy management, resource
mobilization and expenditure control. IDA's ongoing and proposed investment projects
would also further institutional reforms in the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, Education, Environment, Health, and Public Works and in the water and
electricity sector. Haiti will also have to spend substantial resources on infrastructure
rehabilitation to support growth. To a significant extent, the only viable solution to
Haiti's infrastructure problems will be private investment and management. Still, the
investments to be undertaken by the public sector will require substantial and sustained
donor assistance and domestic resource mobilization. With IDA's focus shifting more
heavily to the social sectors and environmental issues, IDB is expected to take the lead
in infrastructure rehabilitation. Nonetheless, IDA would continue to be engaged in
infrastructure rehabilitation for some time through its ongoing projects in transport,
electricity and water supply.
1.13   Alleviating Poverty and Investing in Health and Education.   Haiti's
development strategy would also attend directly to alleviating poverty and investing in
the population's health and education. The strategy to address poverty issues would,
first, converge with the growth strategy in the principal objective of providing income
earning opportunities to the poor in the context of sustained growth. Second, the
poverty strategy would also aim to improve access to water, primary health care and
basic education, thereby mitigating the impact of poverty as well as building the



- 5 -
country's human resource base to support growth. Third. the poverty strategy would
attempt to strengthen social safety nets by channeling assistance to vulnerable groups
and providing resources to communities and non-governmental organizations. The
proposed Employment Generation Project is one means to implenment such a poverty
strategy. Further, IDA would continue to place great emphasis on the Economic and
Social Fund (ESF; Fond d'Action Economique et Sociale - FAES) as a more permanent
instrument to alleviate poverty, and would support rehabilitation and institutional reform
in water supply, health and education through the ongoing Port-au-Prince WVater Supply
(Cr. 2052-HA) and Health1 and Population (Cr. 2085-HA) Projects, and a proposed
Education Project. To assist the Government in the elaboration of a comprehensive
medium-term poverty strategy and to provide a framework for the fiture efforts of
various donors in this area, IDA agreed to take the lead in preparing a two-stage
Poverry Assessment, with a first output ready in mid-FY96 and a fuller report in FY97.
1.14   Rehabilitating the Environment.  Sustainable development in Haiti will
require arresting severe environmental degradation and rehabilitating essential eco-
systems.  Haiti's main environmental problems pertain to deforestation and soil
conservation, and are a result of the interaction of demographic pressures, poverty and
policy failures. Estimates suggest that forest cover has been destroyed in almost all
of the territory, endangering water supply and causing severe soil erosion. Agricultural
performance is also constrained by inappropriate land use practices, induced by political
instability, unclear land tenure, poverty, and lack of public services. These complex
environmental issues would need to be addressed in the context of a national
environmental strategy which clearly acknowledges the nexus of environment and
poverty. Such a strategy would call for the formulation of a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP), for which the Government is seeking assistance. USAID has
pledged financial support to the NEAP. The UNDP has also indicated support and IDA
is prepared to assist in the preparation of a NEAP. On the investment side, IDA's
environmental support would focus on deforestation and soil conservation and their
links with poverty, including land issues, through a proposed Forestry and Environment
Project (FY96) and a Rural Poverty Project (FY98/99).
1.15   The Ongoing Portfolio.  IDA's ongoing portfolio includes about US$150
million of undisbursed funds from seven projects: the Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2691-HA; FY95), pending effectiveness; the Economic and
Social Fund Project (Cr. 2205-HA; FY91), designed to address basic economic and
social development needs through grassroots organizations; the Health and Population
Project (Cr. 2085-HA; FY90), designed to improve essential health services, including
epidemic control measures; the Industrial Restructuring and Development Project (Cr.
2071-HA; FY90), designed to provide technical and financial assistance to private,
mostly small- and medium-sized industrial enterprises; the Fifth Power Project (Cr.
2053-HA; FY89), designed to rehabilitate generation, transmission and distribution
services; the Port-au-Prince Water Supply Project (Cr. 2052-HA; FY89), designed to
increase water production and delivery capacity; and the Seventh Transport Project (Cr.
1756-HA; FY87), designed to address selected bottlenecks in road and water transport.
The Emergency Economic Recovery Credit (EERC; Cr. 2670-HA; FY95). the first



- 6 -
intervention to address Haiti's emergency needs, has already been completely
disbursed.
1.16   Possible New Lending. IDA's future lending program would likely include
the SAC II and TAC 11 in FY96, and investment operations for Environment and
Forestry (FY96), Education (FY97) and Rural Poverty (FY98/99). Also, if the
Economic and Social Fund performs well and needs additional support, IDA would
consider that a priority activity; at the same time IDA's lending program would be
contingent on significant progress in the reform process and a satisfactory performance
in implementation of the ongoing portfolio.
Government Agencies and Other Organizations Related to Employment Programs
1.17   Prime Minister's Office (PMO).  The PMO  was created in the 1987
Constitution to lead and coordinate the work of other ministries. Since the return of
Constitutional rule, the PMO has taken a leading role in coordinating major donor
emergency programs. To underscore the importance of emergency actions, the Central
Implementation Unit was created in the PMO in December 1994.
1.18   The Central Implementation Unit (CIU) reports to a Steering Committee
(Comit6 Directeur) chaired by the Prime Minister and consisting of the Governor of the
Central Bank, and the Ministers of Finance and Planning as permanent members, and
other Ministers depending on the agenda. The CIU's main role is to ensure and
supervise implementation of the Emergency Program (PURE) by supervising execution,
carrying out procurement, channelling financing and ensuring the application of
appropriate guidelines.
1.19   The Ministry of Public Works is in charge of road infrastructure. It has
recently created, with IDA and IDB support, a Labor Intensive Unit (Haut Intensite de
Main d'Oeuvre -- HIMO) to implement labor-intensive road maintenance programs, but
which is not yet operational. The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources is
in charge of a wide range of activities in rural areas including management and
maintenance of primary irrigation canals and soil conservation, which are relevant to
this project. The Ministry of the Environment was recently created and is not yet
fully operational. It will focus on normative and regulatory aspects of environmental
policy and one of its first activities will be to coordinate the National Environmental
Action Plan. It will also coordinate the environmental assessment activities for large
projects.
1.20   The Economic and Social Fund (ESF; in French, Fond d'Action Economique
et Sociale - FAES) was created by an Executive Decree dated May 20, 1990 as an
instrument to finance small scale works. It is currently funded by US$23 million from
IDA and IDB, which together fund social sector projects up to US$50,000 (IDA) and
small infrastructure up to $75,000 (IDB). Because of the military coup, it only became
operational in April 1995 and has since May 1995 approved 59 subprojects, mostly
schools. Because of FAES' short-lived experience and to avoid diverting it away from



- 7 -
its main focus - small scale works - during its initial start-up phase, the GOH has
requested that FAES not be directly involved in the implementation of the proposed
Employment Generation Project other than as a mechanism to ensure a smooth
transition between USAID and IDA financing. In this context, FAES would finance
the US$4.6 million shortfall to complete ongoing works for three months starting June
1, 1995 from the IDB loan.
1.21   Non-Government Organizations. Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
have long been active in Haiti in providing a range of services when state institutions
have been weak. NGOs range from international organizations (PADF, CECI, CARE,
etc.), to religious groups (ASMR, BHM, DCCH, MCC, MCEH, ODEE, SEPIC, etc.),
environmentally oriented groups (ALERTE, ASSODLO, CEHPAPE, GRAPES, etc.),
social services oriented groups (FEGA, GASC, MODECOD, CCCPV, CCDVA,
CSMG, etc.), and producer groups and other economic organizations (CODEVA,
SOPABO, etc.). In all there are more than 200 registered NGOs operating in Haiti.
Some of these NGOs operate at the grassroots level while a few of the international
NGOs have established themselves as intermediaries between international donors and
the grassroots organizations, delivering to the former supervision, accounting and
evaluation services and to the latter funding, technical assistance, and procurement
services.
1.22   The Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) is the international NGO
that is most relevant to the proposed project because of its role in the ongoing JOBS
Creation Project financed by USAID. PADF has over 15 years of experience in Haiti,
a large network of relationships with local NGOs, experience in the management of
quick response disaster relief programs, and tool procurement expertise. PADF has
been designated by the Organization of American States to coordinate disaster relief and
in Haiti PADF has the status of an International Organization and can import goods
duty free, as well as the status of a Haitian NGO.
1.23   Current JOBS Creation Project. USAID approved financing of the JOBS
Creation Project in 1993 as a humanitarian initiative to mitigate the impacts of the
embargo that followed the military coup of 1991 and to improve Haiti's deteriorating
productive infrastructure in preparation for the return of democracy. Evaluations of the
project have shown it to be a success. Initially funded with US$13.7 million to create
200,000 persons month of work over 14 months, during its final phase the project
resources amounted to US$27.6 million, partly in US dollars and partly in local
currency through the PL-480 Title III program  and intended to create 480,000
person/months of temporary work over a 29 month period, which will end in August
1995. By March 1, 1995, the projected had created 261,895 persons/month of work,
equivalent to about 175,000 people, who each worked about one and a half months
earning US$55. By May 1995, the project had reached 95 % of its job creation targets
and the project benefits had reached about 846,700 family members of the workers.
While its primary objective was job creation, the project had the secondary objective
of improving the country's deteriorating infrastructure, increasing land productivity and
improving environmental standards in urban centers. Accordingly the project focused
on four activities: road rehabilitation, irrigation and drainage rehabilitation, soil and



-8 -
water conservation, and garbage collection and cleaning of urban drainage canals. As
of January 1995 the project had cleaned 249 km of urban streets, removed 131,500 m3
of garbage, rehabilitated 1,600 km of irrigation canals, rehabilitated 934 km of rural
roads, built 627 km of soil conservation contour terraces and protected 6,400 hectares
of land. Project implementation was based on a contract between USAID and PADF,
which then recruited local and grassroots NGOs, which recruited labor and implemented
the activities. PADF provided funding, technical assistance and tools to these NGOs,
and inspected, supervised and evaluated them, and reported project progress to USAID.
USAID-mandated quarterly audits of PADF accounts were satisfactory.
1.24   Lessons Learned from  Employment Generation Programs in Other
Countries. Employment generation programs in other countries, including Peru, Chile,
Bolivia and India, have been most successful when the following factors have been
present:
(a)    Wages provided are lower than the minimum wage, thereby ensuring
that the benefits of the program would not be appropriated by the non-
poor.
(b)    The program is targeted geographically, to ensure that it is accessible
to the poor.
(c)    The implementing agency is staffed by technically qualified staff and
allowed to function according to clear, and transparently applied
guidelines.
(d)    Monitoring systems are established to provide timely feedback.
(e)    Works selected have high labor content and result in investments that
are of value to the poor.
1.25   The experience in West Africa with the Senegal AGETIP (Executing Agency
for Public Interest Works -- Agence d'Ex6cution de Travaux d'lnteret Publique) model
is relevant to the proposed project. The World Bank-supported AGETIP model was
created in 1989 in a context of rapid urbanization, economic crisis, ending of the
welfare state, beginning of a decentralization strategy, dwindling resources at the central
level and a lack of resource mobilization capacity at the local level. The AGETIP was
established as an NGO for delegated contract management of municipal small-scale
works, construction and rehabilitation executed by small private firms. The objectives
of the AGETIP were to, without increasing the size of the public sector, efficiently
implement low cost, high priority public works, while establishing transparent
procurement practices, and strengthening local contractors by providing technical
assistance.
1.26   The model has succeeded in providing employment and subsistence to unskilled
workers while achieving durable economic benefits through the implementation of a
well-selected works and services program and the strengthening participating



9-
municipalities, contractors and engineering consulting firms. Today there are a number
of AGETIP-type organizations in West Africa. Keys to the success of the AGETIP
model were:
(a)    Clear focus and Government support.
(b)    Private independent status of the agency and a competent director.
(c)    Transparent and flexible subproject selection.
(d)    Rapid procedures allowing payments in less than two weeks --restoring
public credibility and reducing costs.
(e)    Transparent procedures, including frequent audits and ex-post controls.
1.27   The advantages of the AGETIP model listed above are shared by the NGO
which is implementing the major component of the USAID Jobs Creation project,
PADF, and have been major factors in its success in reaching employment creation
targets rapidly while maintaining the quality and transparency of the implementation
process. However, the creation and use of a specialized, semi-autonomous NGO
dedicated to contract management has been criticized for: (a) not contributing to
institutional strengthening of line ministries or local governments ultimately responsible
for these works; (b) inadequate links with sectoral strategies; and (c) creation of a
monopoly situation, in which competition from other contract management agencies is
lacking. The Government of Haiti wishes to address these longer term issues through
the studies and technical assistance included in the institutional development component,
and gives high priority to developing in- country capacity to carry out the functions
until now executed solely by the international NGO.
1.28   With respect to rural road rehabilitation and maintenance in particular, labor
intensive technologies for rural roads have been employed in a range of countries and
have been found to be economically justified. Traditional rural road rehabilitation has
emphasized the use of grading equipment and graveling of entire lengths, often
neglecting needed drainage works as well as compacting. Newer approaches have
successfully emphasized greater attention to drainage works, resulting in a labor content
of from 40% to 60% of the total cost of the work. Once a rural road has been
rehabilitated, routine maintenance can be provided by an individual who, with simple
tools would care for a specific stretch of the road (e.g., 2 km). This approach has been
used successfully in many countries, including Brazil and Colombia. New road
construction works are not generally suitable for labor intensive approaches, and are not
considered in the present project.
1.29   Lessons Learned from  Haiti Employment Programs.  In May 1995
consultants carried out an evaluation of the JOBS Creation Project for USAID
(para.4. 1(a)). The key lessons learned from the project were:



- 10 -
(a)    The project's institutional structures contribUted to its success. Four
layers of institutions were involved: (i) the internationial donior: (ii) a
Project Management Agency (PADF) with a good network of liks to
grassroots organizations: (iii) the grassroots organizations themilselves:
and (iv) social groups and associationis that supplied workers for the
projects. In particular, the role of the Pr-oject Management Agency was
critical: (i) it provided transparency. accountabil i ity and( political
neutrality  in the selection of both subprojects and implemilenitin g
organizations; and (ii) it maintained satisfactory finanicial, technical and
management standards.
(b)    The majority of project resources went directly to the work force. Of
total project costs, between 60 and 65% were (lirect labor payments.
and another 15% covered the incremental costs of local NGOs. Thus
more than 75%  of the project costs wenit directly into the subproject
areas. The remaining funds coveredl the costs of tools, otlher equipment
and materials, and PADF engineering, management and administration.
(c)    The project improved governance at the local level. T'he project led to
more intensive activities by local groups, encouraging skills in group
interaction, organization and management.
(d)    Cash payments were more effective and eefficient than providing food
for work. Workers were overwhelmingly pleased with cash payments
rather than payments in food or bv other means. whichi have
traditionally been used in Haiti. The evaluation showed that workers
used cash payments to pay for schooling, seeds, tools arid medical care,
in addition to the purchasing of food. The use of cash payments also
greatly reduced the project management requirermients that are
associated with food for work programs.  While many humanitarian
relief programs use food distribution, local NGOs adamantly preferred
using cash rather than food for paying workers as the distribution of
food creates a need for storage, transportation, security and special
accounting.
(e)    Subproject prototypes and standards were very usefuil to proiect
implementation. Prototypes and standards allowed the Implementing
Organizations with less experience to produce higher quality work and
facilitated estimating labor needs and supervising activities.
(f)    The proiect had flexibility to adiust to unforeseen events.  Design
flexibility allowed the project to adjust to marked changes in the
political and economic climate, which ranged from the international
embargo under the military regimen to the restoration of democracy.



II. The Project
2.1    Origin. The proposed project was prepared as a result of the Consultative
Group Follow-up Meeting held May 11-12, 1995 in Port-au-Prince and on the basis of
initial work done on employment generation as part of the preparation of the Second
Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance Credits. During these meetings the
Government requested IDA support for the ongoing JOBS Creation Project, financed
until now by USAID. and implemented in part by an international NGO, the Pan
American Development Foundation (PADF).  USAID funds will soon be fully
disbursed and Governmient attaches unusually high priority to the JOBS Creation Project
as a means to address immediate poverty alleviation objectives, particularly during a
politically volatile period and while democratic institutions are still fragile.
2.2    To support the preparation of subprojects and related procurement of tools and
equipment, IDA has approved US$705,000 of financing through the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF; P-992-HA and P-932-0-HA). In addition, IDB is financing a US$4.6
million shortfall through FAES to permit the current ongoing employment generation
program to continue until IDA funds are available for disbursements against labor
payments in September 1995.  The PPFs will also be used to finance technical
assistance required to conduct a more in-depth evaluation of the works being
implemented by PADF in order to identify ways to strengthen technical quality and
sustainability of works carried out in the project.
2.3    Objectives. The primary objective of the project is to provide short term
employment to people in extreme poverty in support of Government's program for
poverty alleviation. By doing so, the project would continue support for job creation
efforts undertaken since 1993, and achieve other objectives including the improvement
of seriously deteriorated economic and productive infrastructure.  In addition, the
project will strengthen the capacity of national and local government, NGOs and local
communiity organizations to manage employment-intensive small scale development
projects in the future.
2.4    Summary Description. The project would have the following components:
(a)    Employment Generation. Contracts covering management, supervision,
labor costs and associated equipment, vehicles and materials for high
priority small scale development activities, especially in the areas of (i)
rural road rehabilitation; (ii) soil conservation (watershed management,
erosion control and soil reclamation); (iii) rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage canals; and (iv) urban waste management (solid waste
disposal and clearing of waste water ditches).
(b)    Institutional Development: Training, technical assistance and studies,
office space, vehicles, equipment, furniture and other incremental
operational support, including staff, to assist (i) the CIU, selected local
government bodies, NGOs and other project organizations in the
implementation of small scale labor intensive programs on a technically



- 12 -
sound and sustainable basis; (ii) the establishment of a national
autonomous non-government entity offering delegated contract
management services; and (iii) the development of a longer term
strategy for poverty alleviation, employment and small infrastructure
maintenance.
2.5    Rationale for IDA Involvement. The overall Bank Group Country Assistance
Strategy for Haiti is discussed in para. 1 .10. The proposed project would immediately
and directly support the Government's objectives of growth and employment creation,
poverty alleviation and environmental rehabilitation by financing subprojects for the
rehabilitation of economic infrastructure (roads, irrigation, drainage), and environmental
management (soil conservation, waste management). The draft Country Assistance
Strategy being prepared for Board Presentation in FY96 with the proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Credit supports these objectives.  The Haiti Employment
Generation Project would provide a transition between the emergency nature of the
JOBS Creation Project and the longer term development agenda by addressing issues
of works sustainability and sectoral linkages, especially for maintenance, and issues of
decentralization and governance, through institutional development and training for local
implementing organizations.
2.6    Program Objective Categories. As described above, most project activities
and benefits are related to employment generation for the target poverty group for work
programs related to productive agriculture, transport and environmental management.
Tlherefore the project would be designated as belonging to the Program Objective
Categories of (a) Poverty Alleviation and (b) Environmentally Sustainable Development.
The project would be included in the Poverty Category: Program of Targeted
Interventions.
2.7    Detailed Description - Employment Generation Component (US$51.4
million). The objective of this component would be to create temporary jobs for the
equivalent of about 40,000 people per month and a total of about 490,000 person-
months, who in turn would support nearly 1.6 million family members (Annex 1, Table
2). The component would also improve productive infrastructure and the environment.
The project would finance labor costs and related equipment and management costs of
subprojects to be executed by local NGOs and communities covering the following
activities:
(a)    Rehabilitation of Rural Roads, including culverts, and bridges.
(b)    Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Drainage Canals, including cleaning.
(c)    Soil Conservation:   Watershed protection, erosion control, soil
reclamation.
(d)    Waste Manazement: Urban solid waste disposal and clearing urban
waste water ditches.



- 13 -
2.8    Besides these four subcomponents, it may be possible to include other activities
agreed between the Government and IDA if they have a high labor content and positive
economic, social and environmental impacts.
2.9    Within each subcomponent, selection of individual subprojects use the following
criteria:
(a)    Geographical coverage:  Wide geographical coverage including the
poorest sections of the country, both rural and urban.
(b)    Implementing Organization: Capability and availability of the proposed
Implementing Organization (10) in the subproject area to manage the
administrative and technical aspects of the subproject.
(c)    Poverty and social orientation: The most disadvantaged groups would
be targeted, and at least 20% of workers would be poor women.
(d)    Economic and social utility: To select projects which provide the
greatest economic and social benefits.
(e)    Technical soundness:  Minimum  technical standards would be a
condition for eligibility.
(f)    Labor content: Labor costs be about 60% of the total costs of the
project, unless otherwise agreed.
(g)    Sustainability:   Subprojects where local commitment has been
demonstrated to finance and undertake a maintenance program and to
contribute to costs of initial investment.
(h)    Ease and speed of implementation: Preference to projects that can be
completed in fewer than four months and that are simple in terms of
logistics.
(i)    Accountability: Labor inputs would be measurable and verifiable.
(j)    Environmental screening: Environmentally risky projects would be
excluded or would be subject to prior approval by IDA.
2.10   Targeting mechanisms. The Employment Generation Component would target
the poorest groups, both in rural and urban areas. In addition to the equity reasons for
doing so, there are efficiency reasons as well, because the poor have the lowest
opportunity costs for their labor; hence, a project targeted to the poor would be less
likely to compete with other productive activities. The project would use a combination
of targeting mechanisms:



- 14 -
(a)    Most of the work would involve strenuous physical labor, using hand
tools and requiring workers to walk long distances to the subproject
site.
(b)    Workers would be selected by the Implementing Organizations, usually
NGOs, which would involve a measure of self-selecting those who have
invested their own time in participating in NGO meetings and other
activities.
(c)    Workers would contribute one day of free labor for each five days of
paid labor. This targeting mechanism would serve another important
function by freeing up part of the project's financial resources to permit
the employment of more people.
(d)    Workers would work a maximum of six weeks to permit other workers
to participate.
. 11   Detailed Description - Instittitional Development Component.  (US$5
million) The objectives of the institutional development component would be to: (a)
strengthen the technical quality, local government and 10 participation, sustainability,
and employment generation aspects of the individual subprojects financed; and (b)
develop local institutional capacity and plans for continuing the financing and
implementation of labor-intensive small scale public works programs.
2.12  In order to achieve these objectives, the following activities would be financed
(see also annex 2):
(a)    Consultant services to  conduct half-yearly  technical, financial,
managerial and environmental evaluations and quarterly financial
audits. The first half-yearly evaluation would cover the period ending
September 30, 1995 and be due by November 30, 1995, and include
a rapid appraisal of the experience of the USAID-financed JOBS
Creation Project to evaluate the experience and identify further ways
to strengthen the technical quality, sustainability and employment
generation aspects of the subprojects, as well as to develop and
improve local government and 10 participation.
(b)    Technical assistance, training and office equipment and supplies to
strengthen the capacities of local governments and lOs to identify,
prepare, implement, manage, and maintain labor intensive economic
development subprojects. Institutional development activities would
build on the recommendations of the appraisal above and the MTPTC
experience in rural roads maintenance. Technical assistance would also
include governance issues to enhance responsiveness to high priority
poverty groups through participatory methods.



- 15 -
(c)    Consultant services and workshops to develop works maintenance and
long-term institutional strategies in consultation with communities,
NGOs and communal governments, as well as the establishment of an
institution to serve as a delegated contract management agent.
(d)    Technical assistance, training, vehicles, office equipment and supplies,
and incremental recurrent costs as well as office space to strengthen the
capacity of the CIU to supervise and manage the project, including
management, reporting, monitoring and evaluation. Funds would also
be made available for studies agreed with IDA related to project
objectives, translating the Staff Appraisal Report and other project
documents, for projects evaluations and auditing as well as preparing
other documentation relevant to the project.
(e)    A review of the Haitian Public Procurement Act. Although under the
executive order that established the CIU, the CIU is not subject to the
provisions of the Act, a review of the Act, with a view to making
needed modifications, would be useful in the context of possible future
externally assisted development projects.
2.13   Costs. The project is estimated to cost US$56.4 million equivalent. Foreign
costs would represent about 12% of total project costs and the implementing agency is
exempt from taxes. Average subproject costs are estimated at US$360,000 equivalent.
Since subprojects are yet to be identified, and would be implemented over a short
period (about one year), neither price nor physical contingencies have been calculated.
Any increase in the expected average subproject costs would lead to a reduction in the
number of projects to be financed. The estimated sectoral distribution in the project
cost tables reflects past PADF experience in the JOBS Creation Project. Costs were
converted at the prevailing market rate for foreign exchange (US$1 = G14.7). Project
cost tables are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1-3.
2.14   Financing. US$50 million would be financed by the IDA Credit, and the
remainder by the Government of Haiti, participating NGOs and beneficiaries (see
financing plan in Annex 3, Table 4.) During the JOBS Creation Project about 5-10%
of subproject costs have been financed by NGOs themselves.  During project
implementation mechanisms for increasing direct contributions by the NGOs, local
communities and beneficiaries, e.g., of labor and material, would be explored, both to
stretch project financing to create more jobs and as a self-targeting mechanism.
2.15  IDA would finance a high percentage of local and total costs. Local cost
financing and the high IDA cost sharing percentage is justified because of the critical
importance of maintaining the ongoing employment generation program during a time
of unusually high political and economic uncertainty.
2.16   To smooth the transition from USAID to IDA financing, IDA has approved
US$705,000 in PPF financing to purchase tools and hire staff to assist organized groups



- 16 -
to prepare subprojects, and thereby maintain the current level of 40,000 persons now
employed by the JOBS Creation Project per month (para.4. I(b)).
2.17   Organization and Management. The Government implementing agency would
be the Central Implementation Unit (CIU) of the Prime Minister's Office, which would
have responsibility for overall project planning, monitoring and evaluation   The
governing board of the CIU is a Cabinet level Steering Committee chaired by the Prime
Minister, which is responsible for overall planning and establishment of policy; the
operational head of the CIU is a Director General (see CIU Organization Chart in
Annex 2). To implement the project, the CIU would engage full time professional staff
or consultants covering the areas of: Project Coordination, engineering (for rural roads,
soil conservation and irrigation and drainage), agronomy, environmental assessment and
accounting (some staff may cover more than one area). If there are additional staff
requirements, they could be engaged on a temporary basis from consulting firms, rather
than being hired as CIU contractual staff.
2.18   During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the CIU would maintain
adequate staff and/or engage consultants/consulting firms with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project (para.4.2(a)).
2.19   For support in program planning, implementation and supervision of subproject
execution, the CIU would contract with Project Management Agencies (PMAs; in
French: Maitre d'Ouvrage Del6gue - MDOD). The initial PMA would be PADF (see
PADF Organization Chart in Annex 2), which has been successfully carrying out the
USAID-financed JOBS Creation Project, although provisions would be made for
involving other possible PMAs during the course of the project. One of PADF's
responsibilities would be to provide technical assistance to identified potential PMAs.
During negotiations an assurance was obtained that agreements with PMAs would be
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and the first such agreement was signed,
between the CIU and PADF, on June 8, 1995 (para.4.1(c)).
2.20   Subprojects would be implemented by local NGOs, community organizations,
local government bodies and private firms known collectively as Implementation
Organizations (1Os). Subproject proposals would be submitted to a PMA and to the
CIU. The PMA, under its contract with the CIU, would, in collaboration with the
CIU, provide technical assistance for subproject preparation, screening, appraising,
supervising, monitoring and evaluating, procure hand tools and other needed equipment,
and make the required payments to the lOs. Final decisions regarding subproject
selection would be the responsibility of the CIU and the CIU would furnish to IDA a
work program each quarter describing the proposed subprojects for IDA review and
approval. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that subprojects would be
executed on the basis of technical, financial, environmental, managerial and other
specifications and procedures described in operating manuals acceptable to IDA
(para.4.2(c)).
2.21   Procedures used by the JOBS Creation Project would be adopted by the project
with a few revisions designed to improve technical quality (e.g., road compacting and



- 17 -
improved use of construction materials), and to increase linkages with local government
authorities and line ministries, such as the maintenance program of the MTPTC.
2.22   In particular, local government authorities would become the focus for local
planning, with technical assistance provided to help stimulate planning for and creation
of proposals for subproject financing to NGOs or Municipal Governments (Communes)
themselves.
2.23   Local Community Participation and NGOs. The JOBS Creation Project, as
currently financed by USAID, is being implemented by local community associations
and NGOs and a few communes, and a number of these were consulted during project
preparation and appraisal.  The present project would continue this practice and
strengthen their role by:
(a)    Providing training for subprojects requested by grassroots organizations
and local governments.
(b)    Involving these organizations in planning for and conducting routine
maintenance on completed works.
(c)    Strengthening the role of the local government and its subdivisions
(municipalities and CASECs) in the identification, planning and
maintenance of employment generation works.
2.24   As discussed above, one of the selection criteria for potential subprojects would
be the willingness of the proposed IOs to make labor or in-kind contributions to the
subproject. Typically, this will include an 10 contribution of management and other
overheads of about 5% of total subproject costs, and a contribution by direct
beneficiaries of one day of free labor for each five days of paid labor. Among other
things, this selection criterion will help ensure that the proposed subprojects are a
priority for the lOs and beneficiaries.
2.25   Procurement. Under the executive order that established the CIU, the CIU is
not subject to the provisions of the Haitian Public Procurement Act. Thus, CIU's
procurement process may follow the rules of the bilateral and multilateral institutions
that finance the projects it coordinates. As a consequence, no special provisions are
required in the Development Credit Agreement to ensure that IDA procurement
guidelines take precedence over certain provisions of the Act that have been found
inconsistent. In addition, the initial PMA (PADF) has considerable experience in
procurement of goods and works for subprojects in Haiti as a result of its
implementation of the USAID-financed JOBS Creation Project and can be relied upon
to manage the procurement of its part of the project in an economic and efficient
manner.
2.26   The proposed procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the
following table and an assurance was obtained during negotiations that the CIU and
the PMA(s) will follow these arrangements during project implementation (para.4.2(d)).



- 18 -
2.27   Community Participation and Direct Contracting.  In accordance with
paragraphs 3.7 and 3.15 of the Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works
(January 1995), the appraisal mission reviewed special procedures to facilitate direct
contracting and the participation of the lOs in the implementation of the project. The
proposed arrangements, which were reflected in the operational manual agreed during
negotiations, provide that the PMA select the most appropriate procurement procedure
according to the subproject in question. To the extent possible, procurement of works
and goods for subprojects would be carried out using lump-sum contracts (for small
works) and shopping (for goods). Direct contracting would apply to works and goods
under subprojects, which are located predominantly in isolated rural areas and where
competitive proposals cannot be obtained. Such direct contracting would be subject to
an aggregate contract value of US$30 million for works and US$2 million for goods.
In each case, the final decision on the appropriate procedure should take into account
the type and size of the subproject and its geographical coverage. Details about criteria
for the selection, documentary evidence required for the expenditures and monitoring
of the procurement process appear in Annex 1. Purchases of hand tools and some
equipment and vehicles for subprojects would be made centrally by the PMA(s) using
international shopping procedures, which will not exceed US$500,000 per contract and
US$5 million in the aggregate.
2.28   Works. For the Employment Generation component, works would be included
in the contracts signed between the CIU and PMA(s) and would follow the procurement
procedures outlined above. There are no civil works expected for the Institutional
Development component; however, if certain civil works are required during the
implementation of this component, e.g., refurbishment of CIU offices, they would be
small in size (certainly under US$150,000 per contract and not to exceed US$2 million
in the aggregate) and it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested.
Accordingly, procedures for procurement of small works acceptable to IDA would be
used (lump-sum contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations from three eligible
contractors, provided that they have the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully).
2.29   Goods. Goods for the Employment Generation component, e.g., hand tools,
would be included in the PMA contracts, and would be procured following the shopping
and direct contracting procedures outlined above. For the Institutional Development
component, contracts for goods exceeding US$150,000 (if any; there are none expected)
would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following IDA
procurement guidelines and using IDA-issued Standard Bidding Documents. Contracts
for goods expected to cost between US$50,000 and US$150,000, not exceeding an
aggregate amount of US$3 million, would be procured under NCB (if any; there are
none expected). Office equipment and supplies, furniture and other similar goods
expected to cost less than US$50,000 per contract would be awarded on the basis of an
evaluation of price quotations invited from at least three suppliers, provided they do not
exceed an aggregate of US$3 million.



- 19 -
2.30   Consultant services, training and studies. The World Bank's "Guidelines on
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (August 1981) will govern consultancies financed under the project.
2.31   Review by IDA. Although no ICB or NCB is expected, ICB contracts, and the
first two NCB contracts for goods or works would be subject to prior IDA review of
bidding documents, bid evaluation, award proposals and final contracts. Prior review
of all consultant contracts and selection processes would be required for contracts with
firms exceeding US$50,000 and with individuals exceeding $30,000. IDA prior review
would also be required for the terms of reference for all consulting services contracts.
Approximately 80% of consulting services contracts would be subject to prior review.
While the overall level of prior review is relatively low, it is considered acceptable in
light of the audit arrangements for the project, and procurement would be specifically
included in the terms of reference for the financial audits (para.2.39).



- 20 -
Table 2.1: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
TOTAL
Category                          ICB          NCB       OTHER          NIF            COST
Works
For subprojects                                         46.3                         46.3
(39.9)                     (39.9)
For CIU                                                  0.1 2                        0.1
(0. 1)                      (0.1)
Goods
For subprojects                                          5.0'                         5.0
(5.0)                       (5.0)
For CIU                                                  0.2 '                        0.2
(0.2)                       (0.2)
Technical Assistance,                                      4.5 4                        4.5
Training and Studies                                      (4.5)                       (4.5)
Incremental Operating                                      0.3                          0.3
Costs                                                    (0.3)                        (0.3)
Total                                                     56.4                         56.4
(50.0)                      (50.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by IDA.
l/           Simplified commercial procedures (lump-sum  contracts for small works and shopping for
goods) and direct contracting.
2/            Procedures for small works satisfactory to IDA.
3/            Shopping procedures satisfactory to the IDA.
4/            Consulting services.
2.32    Disbursements.  The proposed IDA  credit would be disbursed over about 19 months, starting
in late July/early August 1995. The project completion date would be September 30, 1996 and
disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1996. The formal Credit Closing Date
would be March 31, 1997.
2.33    IDA  would disburse at a rate of 100%  for all project expenditures except those contributed by
lOs and the beneficiaries themselves. Annex 3, Table 5 shows the allocation of Credit proceeds.
Expenses for subprojects will only be eligible for IDA disbursement if included in a quarterly work



-21 -
program approved by IDA; the first such quarterly report would be furnished within one month of Credit
effectiveness (para. 4.3).
2.34   The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 3, Table 6) is based on the disbursement experience
of the JOBS Creation Project currently being implemented by PADF, and does not reflect the standard
disbursement profile for IDA projects in Haiti, which, among other things, may be considered misleading
because it includes data from the turbulent period during 1991-94 when disbursements were very low.
2.35   The Borrower would establish a Special Account in US dollars in the Central Bank of Haiti, with
an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million, equal to about four months' estimated average disbursements,
net of payments to PMAs, which would be made directly. For this purpose a PMA would establish a
separate bank account for project funds.
2.36   Because of the critical nature of effective project start-up, including the early procurement of hand
tools that will be required immediately when subprojects begin in September 1995, retroactive financing
would be provided for up to 10% of the IDA Credit for project activities incurred after June 1. 1995.
Initial payments for tool orders and related contractual services needed to maintain current levels of
employment during the transition from USAID to IDB financing is being financed by PPFs P-929-HA
(US$750,000) and P-932-0-HA (US$205,000).
2.37   All disbursements that do not have a prior review requirement would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs). including subprojects. Use of SOEs for goods and works would be
limited to contracts costing less than US$50,000 and US$150,000. respectively. Use of SOEs for
consultant services would be limited to contracts with consulting firms or individuals costing US$50,000
or US$30,000 or less, respectively.
2.38   Information required for the SOEs would be available in the project data base, updated monthly
by the PMA(s) and submitted to the CIU. Supporting documentation would be made available to IDA
for review.
2.39   Accounts and Auditing. The CIU and the PMA(s) would maintain separate accounts for project
expenditures. An assurance was obtained during negotiations (para.4.2(e)) that: (a) these accounts
would be audited every quarter by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA; and (b) the audit report of
project accounts, including a separate opinion on Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), and the financial
statements themselves, would be provided to IDA within 2 months of the end of each quarter. The first
report would be due November 30. 1995 for the quarter ending September 30. 1995. Expenditures
related to the audits would be eligible for financing under the Credit. The audit reports would convey
the auditor's opinion and comments as necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the
statements of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing
in terms of the project's legal agreements, and standards of record keeping and internal controls related
to the above. The TOR for the auditors would also include a specific analysis of compliance with
procurement procedures, including physical audits as appropriate.
2.40 Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. Responsibilities of the Implementing Organizations (the
local NGOs and community organizations) with respect to reporting would be specified in the contracts
between the lOs and the PMA(s). The CIU and the PMA(s) would regularly collect and analyze data on
key indicators to monitor progress in physical execution and assess project impact, comparing the results



- 22 -
with the pre-project estimates. The PMA(s) would prepare and send to the CIU quarterly progress
reports within 15 days of the end of the quarter. The overall CIU quarterly report, the PMA reports and
copies of the studies carried out during project implementation would be sent to IDA within 30 days of
the end of the quarter. The quarterly reports would both describe progress in project execution, and
identify possible implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions. The format for quarterly
reports, and project implementation and impact indicators, are in Annex 4.
2.41   IDA would supervise the project regularly, and an assurance was obtained during negotiations
that IDA would receive copies of quarterly project progress reports in an agreed format within 30 days
of the end of the quarter (para. 4.2(f)).
2.42   In addition to the quarterly reports prepared by the CIU/PMA(s), there would be half-yearly
independent evaluations of project implementation carried out by an outside firm. The evaluations would
cover technical, financial, managerial, environmental aspects of the project under TOR acceptable to IDA.
As with the half-yearly financial audit reports, during negotiations, an assurance was obtained that these
evaluations would be submitted to IDA within two months of the end of the semester (para. 4.2(g)).
TOR for the evaluations are in Annex 2 and the first such evaluation would be due November 30, 1995
for the semester ending September 30, 1995. Expenditures related to these evaluations would be eligible
for financing under the Credit.
2.43   Since the first half-yearly evaluation will cover the start-up period of the project up to September
1995, it would focus on the issue of sustainability of both the employment generation program and of the
specific investments. Among other things, this assessment would complement the review of the USAID-
financed JOBS Creation Project carried out in April-May 1995, as well as review the lessons learned in
other countries (para. 1.24). Terms of reference (TOR) for this first half-yearly evaluation are in Annex
2 and include the following:
(a)    Characteristics of the AGETIP-model that would be used in developing the model for the
Haitian PMA(s) to be established under the project.
(b)    Strengthening of the rural road unit linked to the Ministry of Public Works, Transport
and Communications (MTPTC) that would adopt approaches tested and proven by the
JOBS Creation Project, with future employment generation programs related to roads
handled by this unit in conjunction with local authorities.
(c)    Strengthening of soil conservation and irrigation/drainage functions in MOA by similar
means, with future employment generation programs related to soil conservation handled
by MOA in conjunction with local authorities and community groups.
(d)    Measures to return garbage collection responsibilities to local urban authorities.



- 23 -
III. Project Analysis
3.1    Economic analysis. A recent independent evaluation of the ongoing PADF program concluded
that the economic benefits on a net present value basis are high. For individual families, the immediate
difference in household income and nutritional levels provided by the project's direct employment
generation income is expected to be substantial. While most of the wage income was used for buying
food, some income was invested in schooling, medical care, improved seeds, livestock and other assets.
Other direct economic benefits would include the productive impact of irrigation, drainage and soil
conservation works.
3.2    One measure of project economic performance is its cost effectiveness in achieving its job creation
objective. The cost per job in subprojects under the JOBS Creation Project averaged about US$1.80 per
person per day, which compares favorably with the performance of job creation projects elsewhere. For
example, although in an Indonesian rural works program the costs per job were lower at US$1.10 per
person day, in similar projects in Kenya and the eastern Caribbean the costs per job were US$3.20 and
US$23.90 per day, respectively. In the JOBS Creation Project, irrigation and drainage subprojects have
been the most cost efficient at US$1.54 per day, followed by soil conservation at US$1.82. road
rehabilitation at US$1.83, and garbage collection at US$1.89.
3.3    The independent evaluation of the JOBS Creation Project estimated that the net present value
(NPV) of the irrigation and drainage subprojects is US$15.3 million at a discount rate of 15% and the
economic rate of return (ERR) is 70%. Road rehabilitation had an NPV of US$4.1 million and an ERR
of 32%. Soil conservation had an NPV of US$710,000 and an ERR of 23%.
3.4    Although the JOBS Creation Project benefits were intended to help those at the lowest level of
subsistence, a wide spectrum of other individuals benefitted as well, including school children, area
farmers, truck drivers, and small business operators, according to a survey carried out. The amount
received from the project during a three week period represented 15% of average household cash
expenditure in the urban areas. Only 16% of those who worked in the project had been previously
employed in work other than farming. In many cases local vendors established themselves along the job
sites selling food.  Workers gained increased access to credit due to their employment status.
Rehabilitated roads resulted in reduced travel time and vehicle operating costs and increased access to
markets and services, including health and education. Road repairs increased efficiency of travel time
by 32%. The drainage and irrigation rehabilitation permitted an increase in crop diversity and crop
yields. The waste management activities contributed to a lower risk of disease in urban centers, although
these effects have not been quantified. As part of the project's monitoring and evaluation plan. the
project would finance a study to evaluate direct and indirect economic benefits of project investments.
TOR for the study are in Annex 2.
3.5    Social aspects. The project would target the poorest members of the Haitian society. including
unemployed and women. All the organizations interviewed for the evaluation of the JOBS Creation
Project said that there were few alternative sources of employment in the project areas. To benefit the
maximum number of people no one would be employed for more than a month and a half. This targeting
mechanism would make it less likely that currently employed people would abandon their jobs to work
for the project. Of the individuals who responded to the surveys carried out during the evaluation, 54%
said they bought some food with the money, 26% bought a radio, 14% purchased some medicine, 22%
invested in animals and 22% said they spent some money to pay for schooling. As in the JOBS Creation



- 24 -
Project. the Employment Generation Project would require that a minimum of 20% of all jobs be for
women. Besides the equity reasons for this targeting there are efficiency considerations as well. Stories
collected in project sites suggest that women are better savers than men, and that women's salaries are
more equitably distributed among family members than men's salaries.
3.6    Environmental aspects. The project has the environmental classification "B." The Credit would
finance: (a) rehabilitation of roads; (b) rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage works; (c) environmental
protection (gully control, soil and water conservation); and (c) waste management (urban solid waste
disposal and clearing of urban waste water ditches). Subprojects would be small with an average cost
of US$360,000 per project. No new infrastructure would be established. The project would have a
positive environmental impact, especially through the components dealing with soil conservation and
waste management.
3.7    The only activity considered to have possible adverse environmental impacts is waste
management, which must deal with general issues associated with landfill sites. Creation or expansion
of landfill sites would be subject to an environmental assessment (EA) satisfactory to IDA, following the
practice utilized by USAID in the JOBS Creation Project.
3.8    Each subproject would be subject to simple environmental screening to be carried out by an
environmiental specialist in the CIU, who would consult with the Minister of Environment on issues raised
by specific subprojects. A simple environmental checklist would be filled out for each subproject. The
checklist would evaluate short and long-term impacts and make one of three alternative recommendations:
(a)    The subproject does not have adverse environmental impacts and can proceed as
proposed.
(b)    The subproject has minor adverse environmental impacts and small mitigation measures
would have to be taken. In this case, the environmental specialist would prepare the
mitigation measures to the designated counterpart in the PMA.
(c)    The subproject could have major adverse environmental impacts and an Environmental
Impact Assessment, acceptable to IDA, would have to be carried out. In this case, the
environmental specialist would propose the TOR for and supervise the EA. Both the
TOR and the EA would be cleared by IDA before the subproject could proceed. Based
on the experience of the Jobs Creation Project, this third case is only expected to occur
with projects involving the creation of new landfill sites.
3.9    During negotiations an assurance was obtained that the environmental checklists would be
completed for each subproject and that an environmental assessment specialist would be contracted by
the CIU within one month of Credit effectiveness (para.4.2(h)).
3.10   Sustainability. There are two issues related to sustainability. First, there is the question of the
sustainability of the works to be rehabilitated under the project, and necessary linkages for their post-
project maintenance by the responsible sector line agencies.



- 25 -
3.11   Second, there is the question of the sustainability of the employment generation program itself,
including whether, in the longer run, such activities should be implemented by a special body such as the
CIU, and, more broadly, how temporary employment programs should fit, if at all, into an overall
strategy for poverty alleviation and economic development. Both of these questions would be directly
addressed by studies and technical assistance in the project's institutional development component. In
particular, the first half-yearly independent evaluation of the project would focus on these sustainability
questions (see para.2.43).
3.12   Summary of project benefits. A detailed list of implementation and impact indicators is in
Annex 4, Tables I and 2. The project would have four main categories of benefits:
(a)    Poverty reduction: The project is targeted at the poorest sectors of Haitian society and
thus it would benefit the poor directly.  Although the jobs created are short term,
according to past experience part of the wage income would be reinvested in schooling,
tools, seed, which would have long term impacts. The project would require that 20%
of all jobs go to women, which are the most disadvantaged group.
(b)    Sustainability of institutions: By reaching an important share of the population it would
help sustain expectations about improved governance and help necessary institutions
develop. Moreover, because implementation is through local lOs, the project would help
strengthen grassroots organizations.
(c)    Improved infrastructure: The project would help rehabilitate physical (roads, irrigation,
drainage) and natural (soils) capital, a key obstacle to economic growth in Haiti.
Increased economic output at lower cost and increased agricultural productivity would
generate economic growth and benefit the Haitian economy as a whole.
(d)    Improved environment: Garbage collection and vector control in urban centers would
reduce health hazards in population centers, benefitting the urban poor directly and
reducing health costs in the country.
3.13   Risks. The project faces many risks. There are political risks that are inevitable in the current
Haitian context, including possible events adversely affecting project implementation arising from the
Presidential elections in December 1995 and a change of Government administration in February 1996.
There are also managerial and technical risks; both the capacity the CIU to implement the project and
the ability of the sector line agencies to maintain project investments in the post-project period are
uncertain, although the project will help mitigate these risks through the institutional development
component. In addition, although PADF has performed well until now, Government recognizes that the
program is unduly dependent upon the continued participation of this international NGO. However, while
Government hopes that other organizations will develop the capability to help manage the project in
addition to PADF, and the project will support this objective, the likelihood of such organizations
developing this capability in the short term is not certain. Finally, there are risks that the project could
distort incentives in the local economy; some of the public works to be carried out under the project
would provide private benefits, such as irrigation and drainage rehabilitation, and could reduce incentives
for private rehabilitation of such works.
3.14   Despite these risks, the project should be seen as an intense labor generation effort, with
immediate and critical short term benefits, which will also help support the development of more



- 26 -
sustainable approaches in the future. Moreover, the considerable success of the ongoing JOBS Creation
Project makes it more likely that the proposed project will be successfully implemented.



- 27 -
IV. Agreements and Recommendation
4.1    Actions already carried out.
(a)    Preparation of an independent evaluation of the ongoing USAID-financed JOBS Creation
Project (para. 1.29).
(b)    Establishment of PPF financing for the project (para. 2.16).
(c)    Signing of the first PMA contract, between the CIU and PADF (para. 2.19).
4.2    Assurances were obtained from the Borrower during negotiations that:
(a)    The CIU would maintain adequate staff and/or engage consulting firms with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA to carry out the project (para. 2.18).
(b)    Contracts with Project Management Agencies would be on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para. 2.19).
(c)    Subprojects would be executed on the basis of technical, financial, environmental,
managerial and other specifications and procedures described in operating manuals
acceptable to IDA (para. 2.20).
(d)    Procurement arrangements would be as described in Chapter 2 (para. 2.26).
(e)    Accounting and auditing arrangements would be as described in Chapter 2 (para. 2.39).
(f)    Reporting arrangements would be as described in Chapter 2 (para. 2.41).
(g)    Half-yearly independent evaluations of the project would be carried out as described in
Chapter 2 (para. 2.42).
(h)    Environmental checklists would be used as described in Chapter 3 and an environmental
assessment specialist would be contracted by the CIU within one month of Credit
effectiveness (para. 3.9).
4.3    Conditions of disbursement.  Expenditures for subprojects would only be eligible for IDA
financing if included in a quarterly work program approved by IDA; the first quarterly work program
would be furnished to IDA within one month of Credit effectiveness (para. 2.33).
4.4    Recommendation. Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 31.8 million (US$50 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Haiti, repayable in 40 years, on standard IDA terms.



I



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Employment Generation Component
Attachment: Eligibility Criteria for PMAs
Tables:
1. Distribution of Component Costs
2. Monthly Projections
Charts:
1. Subproject Cycle
2. Fund Flows for Subprojects
3. Fund Flows for Institutional Development Component
Annex 2:   Institutional Development Component
Attachment: Decentralization Policies and Structure of Local Government in Haiti
Charts:
1. CIU Organization Chart
2. PADF Organization Chart
Terms of Reference:
1. Half-yearly evaluations
2. Economic evaluation of project investments
Annex 3:   Costs, Financing and Disbursement
Tables:
1. Summary Costs by Component
2. Annual Costs by Component
3. Institutional Development Costs
4. Financing Plan
5. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
6. Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
Annex 4:   Project Reporting
Tables:
1. Implementation and Impact Indicators
2. Financial Indicators
3. Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants
Annex 5:   Documents in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 27090               Haiti - Physical Features
IBRD No. 27091               Haiti - Administrative Divisions



I



Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
HAM
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Employment Generation Component
Overview
1.    The objective of the Employment Generation Component is to quickly provide short term
temporary jobs for Haiti's most impoverished people and improve severely deteriorated public
infrastructure and related services. This component builds directly upon employment generation
activities financed until now by USAID under the largest component of its JOBS Creation Project,
and implemented by an international NGO, the Pan American Development Foundation (PADF).
USAID funds will soon be fully disbursed and Government attaches unusually high priority to
continuing their Employment Generation Program as a mean to address immediate poverty alleviation
objectives, particularly during a politically volatile period and while democratic institution are still
fragile.
2.    The overall program target is to create about 490,000 person/months of short term work
employing up to 325,000 people throughout the country in a 13-month period from September 1995
to September 1996. It is expected that each worker will work an average of 6 weeks. The rate of
job creation will depend on the rate at which subprojects are selected, planned and implemented.
Interim targets are as follow:
Period             Average Persons Working         Work Created
Each Day                (Person/Month)
(by PMA)
Sept 95 - Jan 96                     40,000                     200,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (PADF)
Feb 96 - July 96                     20,000                     120,000
(PADF)__               _   _  _   _    _  _
Oct 96 - Sept 96                     15,000                     167,000
(other PMAs)
Total 13 months                   approx 37,000                 487,000
3.    Implementing Entities. The Government implementing agency will be the Central
Implementation Unit (CIU) of the Prime Minister's Office. With respect to the Employment
Generation Program, the CIU's Steering Committee headed by the Prime Minister, and which
includes the Minister of Planning, the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank, and



Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
any other ministers interested in subproject activities, will be responsible for the overall programming
approval as well as basic sets of subproject selection criteria. The subproject selection will be made
jointly by the CIU and the relevant PMA. Eligibility criteria for PMAs include their legal status,
managerial and administrative capacities, their network of implementing organizations and their job
creation capacity (see Annex 1, Attachment). The final subproject approval will be the responsibility
of the CIU which will also be responsible for overall project planning, monitoring and evaluation.
4.    The PMA will in turn enter into agreements with established and recognized local and
international NGOs and community organizations which will carry out individual subprojects. The
CIU will be responsible to ensure that appropriate local government officials are informed of the
program and available to provide support if needed. During project implementation, the PMA will
work with local governmental entities for identification and planning of subprojects which involve
government owned infrastructure facilities or government services (such as solid waste disposal).
Subproject Cycle
5.    The implementation of the Employment Generation Component will involves the
identification, selection, preparation, and implementation of specific subprojects. The nature of each
of these phases is described below.
a.    Identification
6.    Potential subprojects would be identified through requests received by the CIU and the PMA
from local governments, NGOs and community groups. Currently PADF has a list of over one
hundred requests that could be considered for inclusion in the first tranche of subprojects to be
financed beginning in September 1995. The institutional development component (see Annex 2)
would finance a program to provide planning assistance for a limited number of local governments
that would assist them in the identification and initial prioritization of subprojects to be proposed for
financing.
b.    Selection
7.    Proposals would be initially screened to make sure that they are consistent with the general
guidelines to be established by the project Steering Committee. These guidelines will establish targets
for job creation and geographical coverage of the program, and will limit the types of works to be
considered (currently proposed to be rural roads, irrigation rehabilitation, soil conservation works,
and garbage collection). Once screened, subprojects would be selected jointly by the CIU and PMA,
using agreed criteria to select and then prioritize potential subprojects. During negotiations, the
general guidelines and specific selection criteria were confirmed.  The evaluation criteria for
subproject selection and prioritization would address the following factors:
a.    Geographical coveraee: Wide geographical coverage including the poorest sections
of the country, both rural and urban.
b.    Capacity of Implementing Organization:  Whether the proposed implementing
organization has the capacity to manage the administrative and technical aspects of
the subproject.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
C.    Poverty orientation: Whether the subproject is likely to reach the poor of the region.
d.    Economic and social utility: A subproject must be useful to the broader community;
"make work" activities that do not meet a clear need, or subprojects which only
benefit a few private individuals will not be accepted. Priority will be given to
subprojects which benefit and employ those most in need.
e.    Technical soundness: The subproject must be of high technical quality and be
maintainable after completion.
f     Labor content:  To maximize the number of jobs created with limited funds,
preference will be given to subprojects with high labor content. On average, at least
60% of subproject cost will be for labor.
g.    Sustainability: Subprojects where local commitment has been demonstrated to finance
and undertake a maintenance program and to contribute to costs of initial investment.
h.    Ease and speed of implementation: Simplicity in terms of logistics and technical
supervision will be an important factor. Preference will be given to subprojects which
can be completed within one to four months.
i.    Accountability:  Subprojects must meet GOH and IDA program and resource
accountability requirements. This will generally require that labor inputs be easily
measured and verified, and that adequate control of tools and material is assured.
j.    Environmental screening: Subprojects will be screened for potential environmental
impact using an IDA approved checklist. Any which fail the screening will be
excluded.
8.    The PMA, with the assistance of the CIU, would base its analysis of proposed subprojects on:
(a) a field review of the organizational, social, technical, and economic aspects of the proposed
subproject, and (b) previous experience with the proposed implementing agency and with other
subprojects completed in the same geographical area. Once a subproject has been identified as
priority for financing, preparation would begin. The infrastructure works, to be carried out under that
component are intended to either complement and/or extend ongoing infrastructure rehabilitation
efforts. Works are to be labor intensive, of acceptable quality, and utilize sound technical engineering
standards. Activities undertaken will be simple in their design and execution, and well balanced in
terms of both its rural/urban mix and women/men employment opportunities.
c.   -Preparation
9.    Preparation of the selected subprojects would be conducted by the technical staff of the PMA
in collaboration with the implementing organization. During this time the PMA would also provide
training to the implementing organization to prepare its role in ongoing implementation. Procedures
already established in the PADF component of the USAID JOBS Creation Project would be adopted
by the Employment Generation Project with modifications to include two additional activities by the



Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
PMA. (a) involvement of local government (the CASECs and Conseils Communales) in reviewing
and providing input to the plans for the subproject; (b) development of a maintenance strategy with
the local government, the NGO, and communities involved. The average length of time required for
subproject preparation would be two to three months.
d.    Implementation
10.   Three basic task will be required to implement individual subprojects after they are selected:
(a) organization and supervision of workers; (b) procurement of tools, equipment, material, and
services such as transport and technical support; (c) payment of workers and financial accounting.
Prior to implementing a subproject, the PMA will assess, in close collaboration with the CIU, the
capability of the local implementing entity to carry out these basic tasks and will adjust its technical
and institutional support to complement and fill areas of weakness. Generally, the local NGO or
community organization will be relied on for selecting, organizing and supervising workers and
financial accounting. This distribution of responsibility may vary according to the experience and
track record of the local NGO.
11.   The organizational and technical guidelines and procedures to be used by the implementing
organizations during implementation would be those which have been established for the PADF
USAID Jobs Creation program, as modified during project implementation.! These procedures
detail, for example, the establishment of work groups (20 persons under one chef d'equipe), the
required minimum participation of women (at least 20% of the work force), mechanisms for
registering and paying workers, maintenance and reporting of accounts and physical and financial
progress, and minimal staffing to manage the works (one engineer and one accountant).
e.    Supervision
12.   Several levels of project supervision would occur. The PMA would actively supervise both
the technical and the employment generation aspects of the subproject, through on-site inspectors
as well as frequent field visits by headquarters technical staff. In accordance with the existing
procedures of the Jobs Creation program, subproject supervision reports would be completed by
headquarters technical staff, and the on-site inspectors would visit each work site daily to check
attendance of registered workers, in an attempt to avoid the "zombie worker" phenomenon.
Quarterly reporting of the status of project implementation would follow the format outlined in
Annex 4.
13.   The CIU would conduct periodic supervision of a sample of the works and maintenance
programs in order to be able to identify general areas of concern for discussion with the PMA. In
practice, the CIU may accompany PMA technical staff on some of their supervision visits in order
to jointly identify and address issues in the field. The CIU would report on project progress to the
Steering Committee and to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
' It is anticipated that there will be some modirication of the technical guidelines based on the
evaluation to be conducted during the first four months of the project.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
f.    Initiation of Maintenance Program
14.   This phase of activity will apply to subprojects completed before the initiation of the project,
in an attempt to increase the sustainability of works completed under the USAID JOBS Creation
Project, as well as to subprojects initiated under the Employment Generation Project. Financing
would be available from the project to support maintenance activities.
15.   For works completed by the JOBS Creation Project, the PMA and CIU would review the
status of these works and identify a priority group of subprojects for initiation of a maintenance
program. Criteria for selecting these subprojects includes: (a) the existence of capacity and interest
of the local government, communities and NGO to carry out maintenance activities; and (b) economic
importance of the work and the likely economic returns on maintenance.
16.   As works are implemented under the project, technical support would be provided by the
PMA for the initiation of the maintenance strategy developed during preparation. It is anticipated
that a number of different models for the management and financing of maintenance would be
developed, depending on the institutional context of each subproject. Financing for maintenance
during the first years after implementation would likely include a combination of local resources with
national resources (to be financed by the project).
17.   Target beneficiaries. Efforts will be made to ensure that selected workers are among the
poorest and longest-unemployed people in a given community. The project will seek to provide at
least one month of employment for each selected worker. In order to spread limited resources
among a wider group of beneficiaries, the project will generally limit participation of workers to a 1-2
month maximum for the entire program and to no more than one worker per household. Exceptions
may be made in the case of skilled workers or supervisors whose continued employment would enable
a greater level of job creation.



Annex 1
Attachment
IAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
ELGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PMA/(MDOD)
Selection of individual PMAs/MDODs will be based, inter alia, on the following
eligibility criteria:
1 - Legal status:
Any non-governmental organizations, national or international, registered and/or
with all legal authorizations to operate in Haiti.
2 - Managerial and Administrative Capacities:
Director of organization must have been appointed for demonstrated competence.
Professional staff should have sound competence in contract management (at least
three years experience), technical, financial and administrative supervision and
monitoring of sub-contracting organizations in the implementation of intensive labor
based civil works and/or services as considered by the Project.
The organization should have had satisfactory financial audits for at least three
years.
3 - Network of Implementing Organizations:
A PMA/MDOD is not a contractor nor a work-implementing organization. As an
intermediary contract manager, PMA/MDOD will have to prove it can rely on an
existing and available network of at least 3 different, authorized and recognized
Implementing Organizations located in three different geographical areas working
with target beneficiaries.
4 - Job Creation Capacitv:
A PMA's initial programming proposal of subproject work should be able to
realistically generate at least 3,000 person-months over a continuous six month
period.



HAITI                                                      Annex I
Employment Generation Project                                            Table I
Employment Generation Component
Distribution of Component Costs
Cost Categories             Cost/job/month            %        |Assumptlions and sources
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   U S$ 
Labor                                    52.27             57%  38.42G/day for 20 davsUSSl=G 14.7 1/
Local Materials                          13.33             15%  30% of labor 2/
10 management cost                        6.27              7%  12% of labor
Imported Tools                            2.48              3%
Direct Subproject                       74.35             82%
PMA Equipment                             1.28              1%
PMA Staff&Operatlons                      9.86             11%
PMA local costs                         11.14             12%  June 1995 PADF        I for   0000obs
PMA HQ overhead                           5.57              6% 6% of all paid costs 3/
Total cosVjob/month                     91.07            100%
1/ beneficiaries contribute 6th day per week
2 if materials is 20%, labor participation increases to 61%, and if materials is 40%, labor is 54%
3/ or 5% of costs including labor participation  t _    _       _               i
Counterpart calculation
Beneflclary                      Total
Cost/job/month   Contribution (116   10 Cost        Project
of labor)     (Counterpart)     Cost
US$             USS              USS        USS
Labor                                    52.27            10.45                       62.73
Local Materials                          13.33                                        13.33
10 management cost 1/                     6.27                             2.61        8.89
Imported Tools                            2.48                                         2.48
PMA local costs                          11.14                                        11.14
PMA HQ overhead                           5.57  _       _5.57
91.07           10.45             2.61     104.1.4
percentages                            87.45%           10.04%           2.51%        100%
beneficiary and 10 contribution ge __rimuse_u_o_2                                   12.55%
1/NGO contributes 17% and gets reimbursed up to 12%             ___________    ________



ooat/job~~~~~~~~~~~~                              C  lo~~~~~ m"ts Oa..a6o Componat T.a.pt La..l ndCb.jot SntrlDifb.ut6o  __
Job Twg.t    month 
Lavata       (US$1. SePt-mbi    Ooob.        Non-bar    Dacambar    Toal195__4y,,,,,,   Feb-ty           Mach        A.           May        I'o.        Total 1996-1  4JOY,,__   Auguan      Spot-nbm     oa 962   rn  oa
PADS                       0,0 40,000             40,00       4,0         76.00        40,000      20,000      20,000    2,0,,,,g0~    20,000      20,000      740,000      20,000            _____            20,000      320.000
OtharPMA.                              3,000  ,,,,,,,599__ ,000            76000       12,000      17,000      17,000      19,500      15,500      1 9,500  - 1             19,00  1    5,000 - 1,D  13,500    46,500      167.000
T.t.1  ____                  0 _______  _______              .800        16O           200         7000       37,000 -    39.500      39.500      39.500      244.500      36 000      is.000      13.500     66.500      487.000
17             91.0?   3,942,706      15,909 -4,059.044  4,37,,fl247  M76027,906    4,735,510   3,39,503 -3,399,50   3,597,172 - 3,597,172   3,5571 172   22265,040   3,450,571    1,309,015   1,229,4i3   6,0599    44.349,945
PADS 2/      400,000                         4_____0__                        0      ___-0                                                                          0 -___                                          0 ----0.2000
Oth. PMA. 31250,000                                                       290,000                                                 _____0 _____0                                                                            260,000
job.     ____     3,642,70    3979.909   4,098.044   4.371.247  -16,677.906   4.735,518 _3,369,503   3.369.503 - 2597,772 ... 3,597.772   3.5997172 -22,266.040  374609577   1,366,075   17229,473   6.059,999   44,999,945
C-poota tbotion
--ssoti-oroa      301  1,092,512   1,174,773    _29,4%13   _1,311,374  4,808372    1.420,655   1,010851   1,010,951 r  1,075,152 _1,075 152   1075152    6,679,812   1,039,171        4059804 -~395,524 -1,816,S00 F13.3M,.964
rahabilitaion     30   1,092,812__ 1,174,773  1,229,413    1,311.,374    45808,372 -1,420.6555   1,010,851   1,010,851 L1,075,152  1,0792 152    1,0719,152__66795732   1,039~,171    405,904     3689.52 1 716,800    13,304,W4
weota, diooaa    2 9    728~,5 1    7 92,182    81 5,509    874,249    3,205,5 57Y   947,104     673,501     673,901     719,434     719,434     719,434     44 3  0       9 , 1       7 , 0      45,553L    7,2 77,200  [   86.89,969
Projanta  _____  - 32,842,0  7___ 1___     81 406,044   AV4249    3 l6,07506   947,104    63,3901O   63,365,507    3,97,177    3571,172    3571,172    24,45266040 340,7       ,8505    1,225,413   5      2005.9    449.949
Total Coat   - _____I_ --          _I_   -                                                                      7
Topoan S___                                                ______4____                                                              _                      ____                                 _     I       i -:
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     (
P.m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Employment Component
Subproject Cycle
STEP 1                             STEP 2                             STEP3
Presentation of proposals by    .  Joint review of proposals by  -    Formulation and preparation
local beneficiaries (local         UCG and MDOD in                    of subproject by
governments, community             accordance with CIU's              MDOD/CIU in approved
associations, NGOs) to             steering committee                 Quarterly Work Program in
MDOD and CIU.                      guidelines. These sub-             coordination with central
projects are submitted to          and local authorities and
IDA in Quarterly Work              beneficiaries.
Programs for no objection.
v
STEP6                              STEP5                              STEP4
Maintenance of works and           Implementation of sub-             Final approval of subprojects
infrastructures rehabilitated      projects by Implementing        -  by CIU and establishment of
under the program after            Organizations under                implementation contracts
completion.                        supervision and monitoring         between MDODs and
of MDOD and CIU.                   Implementing Organizations
(NGOs, community
associations).
rt x



Haiti
Employment Generation Project
Flow of Funds
Direct Payments Procedure (for Subprojects)
CIU prepares Quarterly
Work Program
Subprojects
for review by IDA
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I . .......................
IDA sends no objections
for Subprojects in the
Quarterly Work
Program.
UCG submits to IDA
periodic disbursement
requests against
approved projects
IDA disburses advances on receipt of CIU'S
disbursements requests against SOEs
i for projects approved in Quarterly Work
Program (in currency of expenditure)
Haitian Bank    Internationl Bank]
Account of PMA    Account of PMA
(Gourdes)        (e.g., dollars)



Haiti
Employment Generation Project
Flow of Funds
Special Account (for Institutional Development)
.           ..........  ..- .  ..........  ............ ..  .   .......  1-f:. -.' .....  .....' :....   .... '..'....
CIU prepares Institutional
Development Plan
which includes project
activities
.ii~:~~~.i                           f....... .  .       .         ..
IDA sends no
objections for
items in the
plan
..  v.......... ....... .... .     . .. ...   ^e.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
CIU contracts and supervises consultants
and procures goods, pays from
Special Account and requests reimbursement from:                                                                                >
IDA, using under SOEs                                      ,  
....... .     ..,. . .. . . .   .... ... ... ..  .........................................................-............. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. ... .
... . ....  .. . . .   .. ..
IDA replenishes
Special Account'



I



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
HAlTI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECr
Institutional Development Component
1.    Objectives. The objectives of the institutional development component would be met through
the following activities: (a) conduct of an in-field rapid appraisal of employment generation works and
municipal strengthening activities currently underway to identify areas to be strengthened or modified;
(b) technical assistance, training and limited office equipment provided to strengthen the capacity of
implementing organizations; (c) pilot effort to strengthen participatory planning capability of selected
communal governments and increase their involvement in the employment generation program; (d)
strengthening of the maintenance of investments by developing maintenance strategies for those
works that were completed during the JOBS Creation Project as well as those that are being
implemented by the project; (e) development of long term strategies for building local institutions
that would have capacity to plan and contract small scale, labor intensive works; (f) establishment of
a national autonomous non-govemmental entity providing delegated contract management services;
and (g) review of the Haiti Public Procurement Act.
2.    Half-year technical, financial, managerial and environmental evaluations and quarterly
financial audits. The first half-yearly evaluation would include a rapid appraisal of the current
USAID financed JOBS Creation program and other municipal strengthening efforts under terms of
reference agreed with IDA, and cover the period ending September 30, 1995. It would look at each
of the three components of the program, implemented by PADF, Planning Assistance, and
Cooperative Housing Foundation, respectively. The study would examine a sample of works already
existing and currently in progress, review the experience of a sample of communal governments, using
field observations and interviews of program participants, involved communities and NGOs, local
government officials, as well as PADF staff. The results of the study would provide direct input to
the project in terms of how technical and other subproject specifications might be improved,
strategies for more fully involving communal governments in the works program, and strengthen the
capacity of governments and IOs to enhance sustainability and employment generation aspects of the
program. These recommendations would provide the bases for other institutional development
activities under the project.
3.    To conduct this study, the Government would contract international level consultants (or a
firm) to form a team of specialized engineers (for rural roads, soil conservation, irrigation, and waste
management) and community participation specialists (minimum, two). This team would be joined
by members of the CIU responsible for the project and members of a World Bank supervision
mission to conduct the field work, analyze results, and develop plans for strengthening the
employment generation program.
4.    The details of the methodology and terms of reference for the study would be agreed by the
Government and IDA by no later than July 30, 1995 and the field work would be initiated by no later
than August 1995, while the current USAID financed JOBS Creation Project is still in place. See



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Annex 1, TOR 1.
5.    Capacity building of Implementing Organizations (IOs - NGOs, community associations, and
commune governments). Capacity building of these organizations would be conducted by the PMA
and would focus on assisting them to identify, prepare, implement, and, as appropriate, maintain the
works financed by the project. This effort is a continuation of efforts conducted by PADF under the
JOBS Creation Project and would involve certain modifications in that approach in order to: (a)
introduce, where needed, approaches to increase the quality of works by increasing percentage of
costs going to materials and equipment; (b) achieve greater involvement of local government in
identification of possible works and, on a pilot basis, as a project implementor; (c) ensure that
concerns regarding sustainability of subproject benefits are identified and address during the selection
and preparation phases of subprojects (see para. 7); and (d) to continue and strengthen the
participation of women in the identification and implementation of subprojects.
6.    Capacity Building of Local Government. A pilot effort to strengthen participatory planning
capability of selected communal governments and their capacity to identify, prioritize, and manage
the implementation of subprojects. Terms of reference for this effort would be developed and agreed
with IDA and the technical assistance would be contracted by no later than November 1995. Plans
for this subcomponent would build on the experience of a number of government offices and NGOs
currently working in Haiti to increase the decentralization of authority to local government and
strengthen the capacity of the communal government, the new Communal Councils, and the
communal sections (CASECs). Technical assistance would also include governance issues to enhance
responsiveness to high priority poverty groups through participatory methods.
7.    Strategy for Works Maintenance. The procedures for selection and implementation of
subprojects would be strengthened by including a requirement that the PMA work with the
communities, NGOs and communal governments to identify feasible maintenance strategies and
programs. In addition, the PMA would be asked to follow-up on works completed prior to
September 1995 (financed under the JOBS Creation Project) to assist communities and local
governments in the development of maintenance programs. Financing of a percentage of the cost
of maintenance for these works would be acceptable, once agreement has been reached with IDA
on the maintenance strategy. In the development of a maintenance strategy for rural roads, the
current rural roads maintenance program of the MTPTC and the CASEC-level road maintenance
program promoted by Planning Assistance would be reviewed to ensure that strategies adopted by
the project would benefit from those experiences and be consistent with sector guidelines.
8.    Development of Long Term Institutional Strategies. The project would include technical
assistance designed to assist government to develop and implement long term strategies for building
local institutions that would have capacity to manage labor intensive investments that would address
priority economic development needs (especially for rural roads, soil conservation and irrigation
rehabilitation) and provide temporary employment for economically depressed areas/populations.
This would include the development of an institution to serve as a delegated contract management
agent (e.g., as in the AGETIP model), especially for small scale, labor intensive works. Clarification
and selection among potential strategies for longer term institutional development would be assisted
by the analysis of the existing employment program (para. 2). Within the first six months of the
project the CIU, with the assistance of specialized consultants, would develop a statement of strategy
for this effort, with implementation taking place during the second half of the project.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
9.    Strengthening of the CIU. Technical assistance, training, vehicles, computer and office
equipment and incremental recurrent costs to strengthen the capacity of the CIU to assume its role
in the supervision and management of the project.
10.   Review of the Haiti Public Procurement Act A preliminary review of the Haitian Public
Procurement Act has shown that the Act needs revision. It is an adaptation of the French
Procurement act that does not take into account the needs for expediting some processes in view of
Haiti's developmental needs. A detailed study may identify the main issues and options that the
Government could include in a revised Act to be submitted to Parliament. The CIU has been
exempted from this Act.



!



Annex 2
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
HAMfI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECr
Institutional Development Component
Decentralization Policies and Structure of
Local Government in Haiti
1.    The country is divided into nine Departments encompassing 135
Communes which are in turn subdivided into 565 Sections Communales. In the
chart below are presented the elected and appointed bodies at the Department.
Commune and Section levels. The Departments are also divided into 40
Arrondissement each consisting of three to five Communes, but this
administrative level functions only as an extension of the central government
offices of the Department. The chart below summarizes the structure of
government at the Department and below levels.
2.    Prior to the 1987 Constitution, all Departmental and Communal Sections
posts were appointments of the central government. The 1987 Constitution
requires popular election for Sectional Councils (CASECs) as well as Communal
Councils, although currently many of these posts are filled by appointment.
Elections are to be held on June 25 with runoffs in July 1995 through which the
national and local representative bodies will be selected. The procedure for
selecting the Assemblee Departmental will likely be through a process of
selection by the local government elected officials.
3.    Elections for the Communal Councils and the CASECs are done on a
party slate basis, with voters voting for a slate of three candidates in each case.
The Communal Assemblies were newly created by the 1987 Constitution and will
include the members of the Communal Council, the CASECs, and other
representatives of local communities. It is through the Communal Assembly that
the Government intends planning for economic development and social services
is to take place.
4.    Local government (communal) revenues have been extremely limited.
Local governments are almost completely dependent on transfers from the
Departments, which generally cover only basic operating costs (principally salaries
of municipal workers). Since the communal government is dependent on the
central administration for these transfers, much control still resides in the central
government and its local representatives. Reform of the fiscal and other powers
of local government is expected to occur with the passage of a new local
government law.



Annex 2
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
Level               Elected Bodies          Appointed
Representatives
of Central Govt.
1. Departments (9)      Assemblee               Delegues (of
Departmental            Ministry
of Interior)
Directors of other
Ministries
2. Arrondisements (40)                          Vice Delegues
3. Communes (135)       Conseil Communal:
1 Maire +
2 Adjoints
Assemblee Communale:
Conseil Communal
(CASECs)
Other Community
Representatives
Conseil d'Adminis-
tration de la Section
4. Sections               Communale (CASEC)
Communales (565)        3 Conseillers
5.    Recent initiatives to strengthen local governments include those by a
special group in the Prime Minister's office to coordinate efforts to promote
decentralization and urban development. In addition, the UN Habitat Agency
and Planning Assistance, a US NGO working within the USAID's JOBS Creation
Project, have maintained active programs providing assistance to both rural and
urban local governments.



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Central Implementation Unit
Organizational Chart
ExeutveDor
Legal Advsor              Secretary
CPA
ExternalAuitors
l__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..._.__._ ._ ....... _._.__.....ll
-LIz--- --
Consutants            Inlernational          Infrastructure          Agriculture            Computer              Procurement              Finance          Assistant Administrative
Consultant               Ut                     Uit                    Unit                   Unit                   And                  Secretary
Accounig
Unit
------- ------------



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Pan American Development Foundation - Haiti
Organizational Chart
Wahngo .'Drector - Haiti_
Project Director
Suppor                                         1       Deputy Director       l
Technical Director              Assistant Director                 Assistant
for Reporting/Documentation          Administrative
Director
[Senior Professional Staff
|           ,                                              |  ACCOUntin g Section |
Junior Professional Staff ll
Field Xnsectors                                          |Financial Administration
Fleld Inspectors g                                  g           X A
|Auditing |



Annex 2
TOR 1
Page 1 of 3
HAMT
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Summary Terms of Reference
Half-Yearly Evaluations
1.    The CIU would contract consultants to carry out half-yearly evaluations, covering technical,
financial, managerial and environmental aspects, to ascertain whether the project objectives are being
achieved, identify issues and make recommendations for improvements. The evaluations will cover
the activities of the CIU, PMAs and IOs, including local governments, and linkages to line ministries.
They will be carried out for the periods ending September 30 and March 31 each year, to be
submitted to IDA within 60 days of these periods. The evaluations will assess:
a.    Technical Aspects: whether adequate technical specifications are being applied, and
whether these are in accordance with industry standards nationally and internationally for similar
works and activities, and if the institutional development plans are being carried out in accordance
to the agreed guidelines.
b.    Financial Aspects: the opinions of the quarterly audits, including for SOEs and Special
Account, and longer term issues associated with the financial management and reporting of the
project.
c.    Managerial Aspects: the capacity of the CIU, PMAs and IOs to manage their activities
in accordance to project objectives in an efficient manner. The institutional development component
would be particularly relevant because the CIU would manage the activities directly.
d.    Environmental Aspects: whether the environmental assessments are being carried out
by the CIU in the agreed data sheets, and if the recommended mitigating actions (if any) are being
carried out.
2.    In addition to the above general TOR, which would guide each half-yearly evaluation, during
the first half-yearly evaluation, covering the period ending September 30, 1995, particular emphasis
would be given to a rapid appraisal of employment generation and municipal strengthening efforts,
as discussed on the following page.



Annex 2
TOR I
Page 2 of 3
First Half-Yearly Evaluation
Rapid Appraisal of Employment Generation and
Municipal Strengthening Efforts
The first half-yearly evaluation, covering the period ending September 30, 1995, and due to
be completed by November 1995, will be carried out by a team of independent consultants working
with members of the CIU and a special World Bank mission. In addition to the general TOR
applicable to all half-yearly evaluations, the first half-yearly evaluation would address, inter ali, the
following questions:
(a)   What has been the technical quality and sustainability of each category of works and
services provided (i.e. rural roads rehabilitation, soil conservation, irrigation
rehabilitation, and waste management) and, if relevant, what are the specific strategies
or practices that might be employed to strengthen quality and sustainability?
(b)   What regions and groups have benefitted the most from the employment program and
from the works themselves? Has targeting to the poor been successful? How might
targeting be improved?
(c)   What has been the experience with the participation of women (which have made up
approximately 20% of the work force) and are there ways their participation may be
increased?
(d)   What has been the effect of the increase in salary paid to unskilled workers from 20
Gourdes to 36 Gourdes per day in terms of its impact on targeting and the local
economy? Are any mitigating measures necessary?
(e)   What have been the results of efforts to strengthen local government planning and
involvement in labor-intensive, employment creation works programs, and what would
be the most effective strategies for increasing such involvement in the present
project?
(f)    What has the been the experience of increasing the beneficiary contribution by
requiring one day of free labor for each five days of paid labor?
(g)   What are the characteristics of the AGETIP-model that could be used in developing
the model for the Haitian PMA(s) to be established under the project?
(h)   What measures could be taken to strengthen the rural roads unit linked to the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications, which could adopt
approaches tested and proven by the JOBS Creation Project, with future employment
generation programs related to roads handled by this unit in conjunction with local
authorities?
(i)    What measures could be taken to strengthen soil conservation and irrigation/drainage



Annex 2
TOR 1
Page 3 of 3
functions in MOA by similar means, with future employment generation programs
related to soil conservation handled by MOA in conjunction with local authorities and
community groups?
(j)    What measures could be taken to return garbage collection responsibilities to local
urban authorities?






Annex 2
TOR 2
Page 1 of 3
HArIl
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROGRAM
Summary Terms of Reference
Economic Evaluation of Project Investments
Objectives
1.    This study is an input to the GOH strategy for employment generation
in economically depressed areas. The objective is to calculate the economic
benefits from labor intensive small scale projects in order to identify those
projects that contribute most to the local economy. The study will use the
experience of the USAID/PADF Jobs Creation Project and of the proposed
Employment Generation Project to carry out an economic analysis of
alternative types of labor intensive projects.
Methods
2.    The study would focus on the four categories of projects financed by
the Employment Generation Project: (a) road rehabilitation; (b) rehabilitation
of irrigation and drainage canals; (c) soil conservation; and (d) urban waste
management. The analysis should also include any other, still unidentified,
candidate categories of labor-intensive small scale projects.
3.    The analysis would be based on a representative and significant sample
of projects within each category. Local information on physical inputs and
outputs for each project and local costs and prices would be collected through
field surveys and from the data bases of implementing PMAs and IOs.
3.    The full range of economic costs and benefits of the projects would be
measured, both for each individual project and for the aggregate program,
including the indirect costs and benefits from any possible price changes
induced by the magnitude of the program.
4.    General. Results should be presented in terms of fiscal costs per job
created, Net Present Value, and Economic Rate of Retum. The average cost
of capital to the Haitian Government should be used as a proxy for the
economic discount rates in the calculations. The costs should include carefully
constructed measures of the opportunity costs of the various inputs, including
appropriate shadow wage rates, reflecting the opportunity costs of the
unemployed. In particular the analysis should consider the negative impacts, if
any, on general economic activity, of bid-up wages by the program, if there is
market evidence that this happens.



Annex 2
TOR 2
Page 2 of 3
5.    Rural Roads. The analysis should include as benefits measure(s) of the
reduction in travel time, reduction in vehicle operating costs, increased rents to
farmers, other producers and real estate owners due to improved access to
markets and public services, and of any other variables identified as important,
such as consumer and producer surpluses from indirect local price changes
brought about by improved roads.
6.    Irrigation and drainage. The analysis should include the increased net
value of crop production from irrigation due to improved irrigation and
drainage on irrigated farms and due to the new farms that became irrigated.
The analysis should also consider any possible change in cropping patterns
expected from improved irrigation. Finally the analysis should consider the
consumer and producer surpluses from indirect local price changes, in
particular due to the increased food supply.
7.    Soil conservation. The analysis should measure both the on-farm and
off-farm benefits from lower erosion and lower water peak discharges and
flooding. Specifically in terms of on-farm benefits the analysis should
measure the increased net revenues due to gains in soil fertility and in terms of
off-farm benefits the gains to productive infrastructure downstream due to
increased lifespans, fewer accidents, lower maintenance costs, or alternative
measures.
8.    Waste Management. The analysis would measure the value of the
gains in public health due to the garbage collection and sanitation activities,
the gain in real estate values from cleaner streets and sewage systems, or
alternative measures that capture the economic benefits of the activity.
Outputs
9.    The consultants would produce three outputs:
(1)   A preliminary methodological report proposing the sample size,
exact physical and economic variables to be measured, and data
collection methods and sources.
(2)   A draft report including the results of the economic analysis.
(3)   A final report fine tuning the economic analysis, making
recommendations for future labor intensive small scale projects,
and including comments from the GOH and outside reviewers.
Duration
10.   The study would last 3 months, with report (1) due after 3 weeks,
report (2) after 9 weeks, and report (3) after 12 weeks.



Annex 2
TOR 2
Page 3 of 3
Qualifications
11.   The study team would include one economist, one engineer and one
agronomist or equivalent. The economist would have at least 10 years of
international experience on benefit-cost analysis and related topics, while the
engineer and agronomist would have at least 5 years experience with projects
of this kind in Haiti.






Haiti
Employment Generation
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(Gourdes '000)                      (USS 000)              Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Employment Generation Component
1 Soil Conservation                          202,352.9    10,650.2    213,003.0    14,453.8    760.7    15,214.5        5      27
2. Road Rehabilitation                       202,352.9    10,650.2    213,003.0    14,453.8    760.7    15,214.5        5      27
3. Irrigation Works                           134,901.9    7,1001     142,002.0    9,635.9     507.2    10,143.0        5       18
4 Waste Management                            134,901.9    7,100.1    142,002.0    9,635.9     507.2    10,143.0        5       18
5 PMAs Management                                910.0     8,190.0      9,100.0       65.0     585.0       650.0       90        1
Subtotal Employment Generation Component        675,419.5    43,690.5    719,110.0    48,2443    3,120.8    51,365.0      6      91
B Institutional development                     23,520.0    46,480.0     70,000.0    1,680.0    3,320.0    5,000.0       66       9
Total BASELINE COSTS                            698,939.5    90,170.5    789,110.0    49,924.3    6,440.8    56,365.0    11      100
Physical Contingencies                                                      -           -          -              -
Price Contingencies                       _    _     _     _     _    _     _     _     _    _      _    _       _ _       _
Total PROJECTCOSTS                              698,939.5    90,1705    789,110.0    49,9243    6,440.8    56,365.0      11      100
v>
F- tD
(D X



Annex 3
Haiti                       Table 2
Employment Generation
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1995      1996-1    1996-2     Total
A. Employment Generation Component
1. Soil Conservation                        5,498.5    7,638.0   2,078.0   15,214.5
2. Road Rehabilitation                      5,498.5    7,638.0   2,078.0   15,214.5
3. Irrigation Works                         3,666.0    5,092.0   1,385.0   10,143.0
4. Waste Management                         3,666.0    5,092.0   1,385.0   10,143.0
5. PMAs Management                            650.0          -         -      650.0
Subtotal Employment Generation Component     18,979.0   25,460.0   6,926.0   51,365.0
B. Institutional development                  1,191.0    2,267.0   1,542.0    5,000.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                           20,170.0   27,727.0   8,468.0   56,365.0



Annex 3
Haiti                                     Table 3
Employment Generation
Institutional Development
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.
Totals                  Cont.   For.    Gross
1995     1996-1    1996-2    Total    Rate   Exch.  Tax Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Works for CIU                                   50.0        -         -       50.0     0.0    50.0      0.0
B. Audits and Studies                             200.0     350.0    250.0     800.0      0.0    90.0      0.0
C. Office Equipment and Supplies                 200.0   1,000.0     300.0   1,500.0
-Local Govts                                        -     500.0     150.0    650.0      0.0    90.0      0.0
-lOs                                                -     500.0     150.0    650.0      0.0    90.0      0.0
-CIU (incl. vehicles)                           200.0         -         -     200.0     0.0    90.0      0.0
D. Technical Assistance                          375.0     600.0     675.0   1,650.0
-Local Govts                                    200.0     400.0     400.0   1,000.0     0.0    50.0      0.0
-lOs                                            100.0     125.0    200.0      425.0     0.0    50.0      0.0
-CIU                                             75.0      75.0      75.0     225.0     0.0    50.0      0.0
E. Training                                      200.0      150.0     150.0    500.0
-Local Govts                                     75.0      75.0      75.0     225.0     0.0    50.0      0.0
-lOs                                             75.0      75.0      75.0    225.0      0.0    50.0      0.0
-CIU                                             50.0         -         -      50.0     0.0    50.0      0.0
Total Investment Costs                            1,480.0   2,250.0   1,225.0   4,500.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. CIU Incremental Recurrent Costs                166.0     167.0     167.0    500.0      0.0    30.0      0.0
Total Recurrent Costs                               166.0     167.0     166.0    500.0
Total                                              1,646.0   2,417.0   1,391.0   5,000.0



Haiti
Employment Generation
Components by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Local
Beneficiaries         IDA                Total                    (Excl.   Duties &
Armount    %      Amount       %      Amount      %     For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
A. Employment Generation Component
1. Soil Conservation                        1,909.4    12.6   13,305.1    87.5   15,214.5    27.0       760.7   14,453.8
2. Road Rehabilitation                      1,909.4    12.6   13,305.1    87.5   15,214.5    27.0       760.7   14,453.8
3. Irrigation Works                         1,272.9    12.6    8,870.1    87.5   10,143.0    18.0       507.2    9,635.9
4. Waste Management                         1,272.9    12.6    8,870.1    87.5   10,143.0    18.0       507.2    9,635.9
5. PMAs Management                                -       -      650.0   100.0      650.0      1.2      585.0       65.0
Subtotal Employment Generation Component      6,364.7    12.4   45,000.3    87.6   51,365.0    91.1    3,120.8   48,244.3
B. Institutional development                       -        -    5,000.0   100.0    5,000.0     8.9    3,320.0    1,680.0
Total Disbursement                             6,364.7    11.3   50,000.3    88.7   56,365.0   100.0    6,440.8   49,924.3
(D
r x
Xr



Annex 3
Haiti                           Tab le  5
Employment Generation Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
IDA
(US$ '000)
Allocation of
Loan Proceeds
Disbursement
Loan Amount       %
1. Subprojects                             45,000.0        100.0
2. Works, except for Subprojects              50.0         100.0
3. Goods, Except for Subprojects            1,500.0        100.0
4. Training                                  500.0         100.0
5. Consultant Services                      1,000.0        100.0
6. Auditing and Studies                      800.0         100.0
7. Incremental CIU Operating Costs           250.0         100.0
8. PPF Refinancing                           205.0         100.0
9. Unallocated                               695.0
Total                                        50,000.0
Loan amounts financed by IDA



Annex 3
Table 6
HAM
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECIT
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
(USS million)
IDA Fiscal     Semester  j Disbursed  |  Cumulative Disbursement          Credit
Year         Ending        During Se t _    _ _          of           Balance
l                      ~~~~~~~~Semester  Amut l%o1oa
1996      Dec 95a                 20             20            40            30
June 96                 16             36            72            14
1997      December 96             14             50           100             0
a/    Includes retroactive financing for eligible expenditures incurred after June 1, 1995.
The Closing Date is March 31, 1997.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
HAMfl
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECI
Project Reporting
1.    Because of the large number of subprojects distributed throughout the country and
implemented in a short time, good project monitoring and reporting will be critical for project
management.
2.    At the subproject level, responsibilities of the Implementing Organizations (the local NGOs
and community organizations) with respect to reporting are specified in the contracts between the
IOs and the PMA(s).
3.    At the national level, the CIU and the PMA(s) would regularly collect and analyze data on
key indicators to monitor progress in physical execution and assess project impact, comparing the
results with the pre-project estimates. The quarterly reports would both describe progress in project
execution, and identify possible implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions.
4.    During appraisal, the existing PADF format for quarterly reporting for the JOBS Creation
Project was reviewed and found to be a satisfactory basis for reporting under the Employment
Generation Project.
5.    The outline of the PADF quarterly report is:
(a)   Introductory text, consisting of sections on:
General information
Forecast for reporting period and actual accomplishments
Factors financing implementation
Projections for the next quarter
(b)   Summary table on program status as of end of reporting period
(c)    Graph on status of programmed projects
(d)   Graph on budgets vs. advances by subproject type
(e)   Tables on status of subprojects in execution
A.    Road rehabilitation
B.    Irrigation and drainage
C.    Soil conservation
D.    Sanitation



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
(f)   Graph on person months completed to date vs. programmed person months remaining
(g)   Graph on person months achieved by gender and combined
(h)   Graph on number of people who have worked by gender and combined
(i)    Graphs on person month data by subproject type
(j)   Table on subprojects currently being studied for implementation
6.    In addition to this information on the Employment Generation Component, the CIU quarterly
report would include the following sections on the Institutional Development Component.
(a)   Technical Assistance
(b)   Training
(c)   Studies
(d)   Financial'budget indicators
(e)   Status of compliance with legal covenants
(f)   Overall progress against implementation indicators
(g)   Overall progress against impact indicators
7.    Attached are the following tables to be included in the quarterly report:
Table 1:    Implementation and Impact Indicators
Table 2:    Financial Indicators
Table 3:    Status of Compliance with Legal Covenants



HAMn
EmpMym*M Gomatlon Prject
knpl.mfltelafl mt hoepathdlae
Period Ending             =                         Sept 95         m har-Os        SOP4)6           Tdrlt                Period EnidirS                              arg             asn Dab
# Om"                        I                               a                131          
Jobs~~~~. crae  -.                              40,OD          22000           2Co 185;000       487.D    Markina Waa                        G    . ..... . ........ ....Minimum Wa  Minimum Wq
of which vnro                    20%                     8,000          5Z.40D          37,9001           97,40D 
ofwih unsbied                    94%                    37,73B         247,170         174,528            5,S_Wrkr  ngi
pod                  USSmialion                   0.4            15*6            111 2. 20 sdS.  a                                        %                       X                     2D
Diywage in US$
_3W_ _ lor unslil _ 1/           2.48                                                                            _
__ __ __ __ __' _   __ _  _  _ _  _ _            :       __  __: _   _         B      I         ~                                                . ......... l
No. t pwscs wi betler
Roads Rdet'sabflhtatd             Km                       1C0             500             500             1,100       ;   te matocntrket          ' O00                                        lOw
Cnnak Rehabilit_d Km                                       123             807             570             1.500 _  Increae in ara                                          tO                    2'
Sudi_mert R                      oem  M.                   148 9'_                         884             1,800 _  under rigabon
Urban PoHiuton 
De_ds  R ew                                       _         11 'a000 m  t  tO8              76              200 _
Carkals Cleared                   Km                         5              38              25                86 _
Sediment Remored                '000m'                      16             102              72              190 _
Sbeeds_   _oed                    Km                        25            tet             t1t4              300
Soil and Water Contlon                                                                                            _  land Protected                 ha                      000                  800
Conlour Ca_s Built                Km                        57             377             266              700 _
Teffae and Hedoe Rcw              Krn                       25             t61            t114              30 
_q_ Km                                         7              48              34                90 _
Guly Plugs                        Km    _        _                          321             23                   _
Tns Planted                     000 tees                    82              38             380             1 OC
Gabors                            m                       214            ,39               988             2.800
Ratings of Capacity ID     1= excelent
perm-                      2wry good
Tra_n_ g_                       # tairned                                                                             __ __ __ __ __ _            4yiaak
au_                         _        _1                                      1               I                3  -                                Rating       VeryGo oidcetnt
P__                                       _                                  t 1             3                4    PADF                                        Eceliant        EIcExeInt
___________                                                                40              50               90g   IPMA2                                       veryGod         ExceiWent
Peoplb                                                     500           4.500          68000             11,000 _PMA3                     |                   Good            VeryGood
Participating 10  Ath                                  1  _        _       _
Tech_nical ncss   ncece_ing_TA                                                       _| |ratings of I                                                          | 2
Parbpipting commurs            '1es
CIIJ                                                         2              10              10               22.   w   ratinas d12                                           5                     15
11         _101a0                                                          200             250              450  1_
Pmcmg COMM                                                                  4]              51               a 1I7t                                       
pwWm    C_mmInl                                                                                                     I _|lncrease in Pariipton minlj 
s_   _ _iot  _    _0                                                       16              20                36     gp      %ti                                                             _ s   5S
communes able to develop
P_    _ D_ _ _ped                  #                         o 0            15              301               45 _a mainmrenwnce pln       |                                  5                    10
Wborks Urdwb"n by                                                                                                    Co_mi    T   munrs with1
Comr_or_________atNGCk_                                      0              24              301              54     maintnance conrit               #                        3                      8
Pirijed bhi  bbor                     G3e ft du 7G i C6. I                                                         l  -U IG



Annex 4
Table 2
HAM
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Fmancial Indicators
1.    Expenditures during period and to date by component
2.    IDA disbursements during period and to date by component
3.    Procurement by category: actual, in process and planned
4.    Contributions by Implementing Organizations and beneficiaries during period and to date
5.    Status of audit reports



HAITI
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Reporting
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section                  Covenant            Present           Original          Revised          Description of                 Comments
Type             Status          Fulrillment   Fullflllme               Covenants
Date           nt Date
Covenant types:                                                                       Present status:
1        =        Accounts and Audits                                                C         =        Covenant complied with
2        =         Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries       CD                  Complied with after delay
3                  Flow and utilization of project funds                             CP                  Complied with partially
4                  Counterpart funding                                                NC       =         Not complied with
5        =         Management aspects of the project of acecuting agency
6        =         Environmental covenants
7        =         Involuntary resettlement
8        =         Indigenous peoples
9        =         Monitoring, review and reporting
10       =         Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11       =         Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation                                                                                    c  2
12       =         Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional actions                                                                                   tDX
13       =         Other






Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
HA1TI
EM[PLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
1.       Agreement of Collaboration. Central Implementation Unit and PADF, June 8, 1995.
2.       Operational Manual. Central Implementation Unit, June 1995.
3.       Accord de Retrocession. Ministry of Finance and Economy, June 1995.
4.       Sub-project Information Fact Sheets. Haiti Jobs Creation Project. USAID and PADF, March
1995.
5.       Proposal of the Pan American Foundation for the Haiti Jobs Creation Project. PADF, May
1993.
6.       Haiti Jobs Creation Project Urban Jobs Addendum. PADF, May 1993.
7.       Haiti Jobs Creation Project Evaluation. Prepared for PADF and USAID/Haiti by D. Brown,
J. Deryce, C. Jolly, C. Labossiere, and Y. Pierre, May 1995.
8.       Haiti Jobs Creation Project Presentation and Procedures. PADF, January 1995.
9.       Haiti Jobs Creation Project Procedures Administratives & Financieres. PADF, Avril 1995.
10.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project Demande de Financement de Projet (Form). PADF.
11.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project Rapport de Supervision (Form). PADF, May 5, 1995.
12.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project Rapport Periodique D'Avancement des Travaux. PADF, January
1995.
13.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Projet Conservation du Sol et de l'Eau Bassin Versant Riviere,
St.Louis du Sud, Phase II, Contract #072. PADF, Fevrier 1995.
14.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Projet Rehabilitation d'Infrastructures d'Irrigation et de Drainage,
Curage Riviere La Quinte, Drainage Lagon la Ville, Phase III, Contract #095. PADF, Avril
1995.
15.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Projet de Rehabilitation de Routes, Fonds des Blancs, Contract
#023. PADF, Fevrier 1994.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
16.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Rehabilitation de Routes, Description des Activites. PADF,
March 15, 1994.
17.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Assainissement, Prescriptions Techniques. PADF, February 6,
1995.
18.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Conservation de Sol, Prescriptions, Techniques et Prototypes.
PADF, January 3, 1994.
19.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Irrigation et Drainage, Description des Activites. PADF,
September 28, 1993.                                               i
20.      Haiti Jobs Creation Project: Quarterly Reports for 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th Quarters (October
1993 to September 1994). PADF.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27090
USA                                                                                          73 30'                                          73O00          '                                7230'                                          72'00'
6                                                                                                                                                              ATLANI~~~~~~~~~~2000                                                       20 00-
ATLANTIC  OCEAN                                                                                                                                          A      LT0
P                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PORT-DR PAIX
, _                                                               Poin/ Jooll Rubal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S LLohn    *.  Anoe..FOIer
CUBA                            DOPH SCAL  F A           U    E                                                                                               m
_DHUMID Grnd Solinot  wS ICAN  1                             T
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OE S                                                                                         gT 
JAMA-CA                               PERTO                                                                                                                                                                                                               f
RICO-
-o a   -0         IN ER  A IO A   EO N A  Y.                                                    ;no oi                                                                                                                            POR nIR  T9/v<X i    Ell d l
O- b      10       20       ao>                                                                                                                                                                           O, IDa9>4p''  
_ 400' Id ,..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             \TI  I  I  I
19~30'                                             HAITI
PHYSICAL FEATURES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LePR0O  ~~C
t900'                                                                                                                                                                                     Thonrordac?                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I1~ -~-
HUMH)                                                                                                                        1,        1. ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dn   Laooo    I     -
DRY                                                                G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d. Sda,,d.Minn    Cre.,    
Dam-Marie  ran ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  or~~~7
arFh.~~~~~nopdano~~~~~            0.     A 0 NAI                                                                                                           ROILtAL19AA  
19-00,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,IR19






IBRD 27091
U S A                                                                                      73 30'                                        73 00'                                         72'30'                                        72 00'
A '                                            -20.00'                                                                                      * 11. de l= Tor".                                                                                  200'
PORT-DE-PALX          it Lo.-l
CIJBA                ~~~~DOMINICAN 
REPUBUCICoRo. 
CL A                    EP3U                                               MOLE ST NICOLAS                                    u                                                                               P HAITIENz lo3n
JAMAICA                   ~~~PUERTO                                                                                                   Ro,,B.".                                      B.,PHITE
OAMOA.CA                    ~~~~~~~RICO                                                                                                                    '"!A
>~~~~~~~~~~~~o, ,no, de 3  d,oI                             C
*.g                                                                                                  LIBE L  PORTE
el DEP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AnoRIMEN                                                          I H       AOUro,R Mon         *         J      \ c >vrc                                   LIT-olERT
74'130'                                        74I00'                                                                                                       T.,,,-Neo.Pooo,                                          'o
19-30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                                                                                                                                                                                               monbo,
COMMRUNE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                           Cer    rl             ..9
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                 G-od. Soi1n.
COMMAUNE H'EADQUJARTERS
8  DEPARTMENT HEADQUARTERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                         M,dHNH
-   ASPHALT ROADS                                                                                                      Sr MO                          d. I'Ar',E-               C            TR
RIVERS                                                                                                                     A I                              
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                                     -,
T1900'                                                                                                                              7'                                                                                                                                         9   
9->   . _  M onfr=uls;=Cb=peleXS  c=nC:rretE                                              <    Bell:~~~~~~~~~RoIIde>. 
"I I 0  20 30    40       50                                                              <                                             \                X              /       2~    ff       \             a        *  (
IKILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                  W-6<>z       l\     t    Eu* S   {1    
CoI.o~~~~pmXR=u.l                                                                                                         Arr=h, d. P..\/< Rone  Cone.e !O
-                                ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~C=b6-   )                                                          )
OrO o-,r0, .r 0,.                                                                                                                                                                                      Th:m=regu T         C=m,b                       D
Do - M.-roo  *.oI.0n                                                                                                                                                                         POIRTIAU-PR SNCE
-l a 30   <t_ 7   A ,\4D  t9            N    S j                g   Pelik~~~~~~~~~~~'o, Tr.u                                                          L6         o96                       -..r                                                          1 8'30
boo.dor. -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d Np~
.6-        -ofd   -; Gmu             R:r-  :eu              G      G     CYSGodGse 
74'30'                                        7400'                                         7330'                                          73'00'                                        72 30'                                         7200'        An-  . P,e,
JIUNE lqO









N<  xi C;
Po  r:,             >
ll    i  7'!  
+I.             -
eo                 H
A4-
~Lr I
-',
Z: .



