The World Bank
TOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CA. //2C.-Z'
Iawbt N. P-3679-IN
orF T
PREDNT OF TME
I_I LMV7lOWT ASSOCI3TIO
TO THE EKECUTI  DIRECICIS
ONA
O    CRDIT
IN ANl iKOW? or SDR 66.3 ttMI
TO IDIA
FOR A
THIw POPULATON PROJET
November 18, 1983
Thk d .w    u dbu_idh   d UV be _ by reIp.U _ I su tIn pdeu f.dsmof
Erehi dhu. lb _mOmb My met 8&hw   be iladmad wit W Bdi Br    B SC _



cmucr mu3r
(As of Septbeet 21, 1983-)-
S1.00       -        0.192563
is 100           US$0.098110
is I ulIim      US$98,O10
The  Dus          ibau  cm  Is subject to change.
Couvazson  in the Staff Affraia Report were ase at
US$ 1-00 - Is 9.75-, wiCh rePresuts the average ecange
rate projected over te dr         p .
APrfl 1- Nareh 31
Abbreviatim  and Acroum
CW~~~~~~~~~~~ - c
C5 -   Cr -  Welt Cute          -
Gox   -  Gove t of hnd-a
EL    -   EaI Asulstant;
IN    -  IformatLoA.- Education and CanCatloU
iU    -  IutUterma. eVice
cm        Vat- 11eraL. a  Child; HeaLth
NIBS  -  _ana      t tmtiou and 5.-l ionyste
O         ME- niaty of oealt1
NOUF? -  rNiistry of- eazl  ad Famly Plannig
ROOM  -   nIatry of BaLth and Family Welare
_W    -   plirpoe Woke
OTC   -              To_ in  CMPS
PUC   -  Primy Sealth Cter
SHC       Subsidiary  ealth Centr



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Crude Birth Rate:       Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate:       Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Population      Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migration
Growth:               expressed as a percentage of the total population in
a given year.
Infant Mortality Rate: Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Total Fertility Rate:   The average number of children that would be born per
woman if she were to live to the end of her childbear-
ing years, and bear children according to a given set
of age-specific fertility rates. The Total
Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate of the
average number of children per family.
Equivalent              An index of overall family planning performance
Sterilizations:       calculated by adding the number of sterilizations
performed over a period of time, one-third the
number of IUDs inserted, one-eighteenth the number
of equivalent conventional contraceptive users, and
one-ninth the number of equivalent oral contraceptive
users. These weights are derived from an
assessment of numbers-of births averted by different
contraceptive methods in India.
Family Welfare          Tae Government of India-s family planning, and
Program:              maternal and child health care services.
rThb document has a resuicfted dismbuion and may be used by redpienlts only in the perfornmsn of|
dtir ofricdudcLlu Iats conis  y ot odrwisebe dbcsedwithout WorlidBank authbirfioL 



INDIA
THIRD POPULAIION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMHARY
Borrower:                    India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:               The States of Karnataka and Kerala.
Amount:                      SDRs 66.3 million (US$70 million equivalent).
Terms:                       Standard.
Relending Terms:             As part of Central assistance by the
Government of India (GOI) for State develop-
ment projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. At present, Central
assistance for health and family welfare
activities is provided on a grant basis. GOI
will bear the exchange risk.
Project Description:         The project would support the implementation
of GOI-s integrated family welfare program in
selected districts of the States of Karnataka
and Kerala, which it plans to carry out
throughout India by the year 2000. The
project would have the following major
components: (a) service delivery; (b) demana
generation activities; (c) monitoring,
evaluation and operational research; and (d)
project management. The project would have
as its major objectives (a) the reduction of
fertility and the lowering of infant, child
and maternal mortality and morbidity by
focussing on specific program interventions
and generating demand for services and (b)
the amelioration of program constraints at
the State and district level by improving
service coverage and quality, management,
plan-ing, monitoring and evaluation.
In view of the good administrative record of
both States and the previous experience of
Karnataka with the first population project,
the risks associated with implementation of
project components are expected to be
minimal. To change the attitudes of program
staff to bring them in line with the essen-



-ii-
tial elements of GOI-s program, a strategy
paper has been designed as the basis for
staff inrservice training and reorientation.
The need for effective, professional staff
for the Information, Education and
Communication component of the project will
be met through assistance provided by local
consultants of proven capability. With
increased attention being paid to demand
generation, the raising of contraceptive
prevalence to projected levels should be
attainable.



-iii-
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Costs                      Local           Forei&n           Total
Service Delivery                     72.3               8.3             80.6
Information, Education
and Communication                   4.9               0.5             5.4
Population Education                  0.9               0.1              1.0
Research and Evaluation               2.6               0.1              2.7
Project Management                    7.1               0.5              7.6
Total Base Cost                        F%]                9.5             9 2
Physical Contingencies                2.9               0.3              3.2
Price Contingencies                  20.5               2.5            23.0
Total Project Cost                    111.2              12.3            123.5
Less Duties and Taxes                   7.5                -               7.5
Total Net of Duties and Taxes         103.7              12.3            116.0
Financing Plan:                                      (US$ Millions)
Local          Foreign           Total
IDA Credit                           57.7             12.3              70.0
GOI Grant/State Contributions 1/    53.5                               53.5
111.2            12.3             123.5
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IDA FY            FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual             0.5      4.5     8.7    13.8    18.5    18.0       6.0
Cumulative         0.5      5.0    13.7    27.5    46.0    64.0    70.0
Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:        No. 4691-IN, dated November 9, 1983.
1/ Includes duties and taxes of about US$7.5 million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDLA
FOR A THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India In an amount equivalent to SDR 66.3 million (US$70 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a project designed to support
the implementation of the Government of India-s (GOI) integrated family welfare
program in selected districts in the States of Karnataka and Kerala. GOI would
channel the proceeds of the credit to the States of Karnataka and Kerala in
accordance with its standard terms and arrangements for financing state
development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      An economic report, -Economic Situation of India and Resource
Mobilization Issues' (4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 19, 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex T.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land.  Growth of value-added in agriculture -  2.2% since 1950/51 -  has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40X, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6Z per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvemeats in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
!I of the President-s Report for the Pilot Project for Watershed
Development in Rainfed Areas (No.P-3674-IN), dated November 16, 1983.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.81 of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9Z in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20X was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 82 of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five yea-:s. Net foreign savings have never
risen above 32 of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2X per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to did-1970s,
however, India-s terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India-s exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance whlch demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9Z, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was
broker when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall tn
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the preparar
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2Z, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6Z.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial output expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy faced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5X-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in supr-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improvements of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million tons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other major
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Government
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain the momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely to an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel. iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily



-4-
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most lIprove-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4Z of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India-s low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8Z, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982183 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1Z of GDP. The improvement would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export volume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumDtion in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in 'other'
imports through more liberal import policies. Nevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% of GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources.  Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted



-5-
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an-agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for 3-)R 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982/83, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a lOX increase in net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as wel' as improvement In the utilization of existing capacity. India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government-s share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need also for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of 1nflatlunary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Howevez, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services, such as pover, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. However,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been



-6-
made. As demonstrated in the last three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
ing to higher productlvlty and capacity utillzation throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigatlon, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand In these sectors will repain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63Z in 1979/80 to about 45X now
and a scheduled expansion In production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapldly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concesslonal sources, Indla should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents the best stra-: -y for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to impreve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing india
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous



-7-
investmen: requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that Inaia has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trenc, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 and
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and coo-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6Z per annum. Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.    A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India-s development efforts. The 1981 Census placed Indfa-s popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world-s poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and
small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living standards of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem In large part
from market forces which can be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India-s sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects fcr India-s poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 illion, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contaias a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
zillion, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
zillion cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country-s development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure.  Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and onrfarm development designed to increase agricltural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meec the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the Importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential neeas of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and f'-'ly planning prcgrams, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriatel- contribute to Indias adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuiug support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers-
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to Indias efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments-aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil iaports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expar-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also



-9-
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth So that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India-s economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the Intdia Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan.  As in the past, Baik Group assistance for projects In India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       Indias poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements shoul1 be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocatei to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of saviags, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
ladia's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of India-s
debt service to the level of exports was about 11Z inr 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 202 through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled Us$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million renain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion cor-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969170, the Bank Group
accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13Z of gross disbursements, and 122 of
net disbursements as compared with 50Z, 43Z and 53Z, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India:s outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share vas US$7.1 billion or
38X (IDA-s US$5.9 billion and IBRD-s US$1.2 billion). In 1981/82, about 16.02
of Indiaes total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR IN INDIA
Population and Health Situation
29.    With a population of approximately 685 million (1981 Census),
India is the second most populous nation in the world. Fertility trends
in India have however slowed down. The average crude birth rate has
declined from 41.1 per thousand in 1971 to 33.9 per thousand in 1981; the
total fertility rate has dropped from 5.3 in 1970 to 4.3 in 1978 (the
latest year for which data are available). A mandated increase in the
marriageable age of females, as well as a decline in marital fertility
have both contributed to the overall decline. Lower fertility is largely
attributed to Indias family planning program which has helped to increase
contraceptive prevalence from 12% in 1971 to almost 29Z in 1983. The
crude death rate in India also has been falling although more slowly in
recent years from 19 per thousand in 1961 to 15 in 1971 and 13 in 1981,
mainly due to the control of communicable diseases.
30.     Although India's recent annual population growth rate of about
2 percent is modest compared to that of many other developing countries,
the sheer numbers added each year (approxioately 14 million annually
between 1971-81) are a serious constraint to the country's development
effort. Future prospects are even more grim. The Bankts 'medium" term
projections Which assume the achievement of replacement level fertility by
the year 2020 result in a stationary population of 1.8 billion in India
early in the 21st Century.
The Proiect States
31.     The proposed project would cover six districts in northern
Karnataka and four districts in northern and central Kerala. The State of
Karnataka had an estimated population of about 37 million in 1981, of
which the six project districts of Belgaum, Bidar, Bijapur, Dharwar,
Gulbarga and Raichur account for a little more than one third. The
population density in these districts averages 165 per square kilometer
which is significantly lower than the all State average of 194. They are,
however, the generally backward districts in the State with a literacy
level of 33% as against 38% for the State as a whole. Although,
Karnataka's infant mortality rate of 82 per 1000 births is below the
All-India average of 127, health and family welfare facilities in the
project districts remain deficient with one hospital bed per 2,336 of
population and one doctor serving the needs of approximately 12,200
people. In 1981/82 contraceptive prevalence in the six project districts
(24.2Z) was about 5Z lower than for the State as a whole, while the number
of equivalent sterilizations was almost 20Z lower.
32.    The State of Kerala had an estimated population of 25.5 million in
1981. It is one of India-s most densely populated States with 655
inhabitants per square kilometer compared to the all-India average of 216.
Although Kerala is a relatively more advanced State in the promotion of



-11-
family planning measures, it also has a number of backward districts which
affords an opportunity for demonstrating the possibilities of lowering
fertility and infant mortality through good project implementation. While
Kerala has a low total fertility rate, low infant mortality rate, and a
relatively good contraceptive prevalence rate of 35X (1981/82), there is a
wide variation in performance among its districts. Two of the four dis-
tricts selected for this project (Wayanad and Idukki) are almost entirely
in the highland, while a third (Palghat) includes both highland and mid-
land country. The birth rates in these areas are substantially higher
than for the rest of the State and infant mortality is almost twice as
high as the all-State average. The fourth project district, Malappuram,
located in Kerala's coastal belt also has a high birth rate and a low
contraceptive prevalence rate. The contraceptive prevalence rate in the
four districts ranges from 142 it Malappuram to 192 in Idukki and Palghat.
The number of equivalent sterilizations per thousand population in 1982-83
for the four districts combined, which accounted for 24X of the State's
population in 1981, was more than 302 lower than for the State as a whole.
History of Family Planning in India
33.     India-s national family planning program dates back ro 1952.
Initial activities were limited, however, and it was only in the wake of
the 1961 census, when the implications of the reported 2 percent annual
population growth rate were first widely appreciated, that more serious
efforts to implement a program were undertaken. With the establishment in
1966 of a Department of Family Planning in GOI-s Ministry of Health and
Family Planning (MOHFP), the program was expanded to include two major
campaigns aimed at promoting the use of intra-uterine devices (IUDs) in
the mid-sixties and sterilization in the early-seventies. Mass vasectomy
camps were also organized in 1972/73. These initiatives resulted in
dramatic increases in the numbers of acceptors, but these were short-lived
as organizational difficulties and inadequate provision for medical
follow-up eroded public confidence and the number of acceptors declined
significantly.
34.     In the mid-1970s, family planning was re-emphasized as a major
political priority and the MOHFP issued a formal statement of national
population policy in April 1976 in which among other specific measures,
the promotion of sterilization was emphasized. As a result the number of
sterilizations increased dramatically to 8.3 million in 1976-77 from
1.4 million in 1974-75. The measures adopted to promote sterilization
however, produced widespread apprehension and reported program excesses
became an election issue. The new Government which came to power in March
1977 did not dismantle the previous Government-s family planning program
but emphasized the integration of voluntary family planning with basic
health, particularly maternal and child health (MCH), thus giving the
program a broader -family welfare appeal. The name of the Ministry
responsible for family planning was also changed to 'Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare- (MOWFW). Two major family welfare programs were
launched: the community health volunteer scheme under which basic assis-
tance was provided to villages in first aid, MCH, family planning and



-12-
sanitation; and a program to train dais (traditional birth attendants).
The Governuent also formulated a 'Model Plan' drawing largely from the
experience of the first Bank Group financed Population Project
(Credit 312-IN). The Plan specifies expanded levels for facilities,
staffing and training designed to improve program performance in the
relatively backward districts of specific States.
35.    With the return to power of the present administration in January
1980, the Model Plan became the basis of a program to utilize interna-
tional assistance in selected districts of 12 States through a series of
projects called Area Projects. Family welfare has also been included in
the current list of GOI priorities in its 20-Point Program. GOI's family
welfare program has now recovered the momentum lost in 1977/78 and is
beginning to show results as the following performance figures indicate:
(In millions)
Family Planning Methods    1978/79   1979180   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83
Sterilizations                1.48      1.78      2.05      2.79       3.98
- Vasectomies                (0.39)    (0.47)    (0.44)    (0.57)      n.a.
- Tubectomies                (1.09)    (1.31)    (1.61)    (2.22)      n.a.
IUD insertions                0.55      0.64      0.63       0.75      1.07
Equivalent conventional
contraceptive users /a      3.40       3.00      3.70      4.40       5.70
Equivalent oral
contraceptive users         0.10       0.10      0.10      0.12       0.17
Equivalent sterilizationsl/  1.9        2.2       2.5       3.3        4.7
Eligible couples effect-
tively protected (%)       24.0       23.6      24.4      25.7       28.5
/a Mainly condoms.
1/ Equivalent sterilizations is an index designed to measure changes in
family planning performance; it is calculated by adding the use of
various methods adjusted by their respective weights (see Glossary).
Although the 'percentage of eligible couples effectively protected"
is a more widely used ;aeasure to show cumulative performance of family
planning, -sterilization equivalent" is used to indicate changes in
performance in the short-term.



-13-
?resent Strategies
36.    The Plannlng Commissionas Working Committee on Population (May
1980) has set the following demographic targets for 1996:
Crude Birth Rate                21 (per 1000 population)
Crude Death Rate                 9 (per 1000 population)
Infant Mortality Rate           60 (per 1000 population)
Life Expectancy                 64 (years)
Net Reproduction Rate 1/          1 (female child per woman)
Immunization Coverage           80 percent
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate   60 percent
To meet these goals, GOI's revised Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85) has
recommended the adoption of social strategies for fertility reduction
generally, as well as more specific measures relating to family planning
and MCH services. They include greater support for female education and a
further increase in the age limit at which women may legally marry from
the present 18 years. For family planning, the Plan promotes the use of
temporary contraceptive methods by younger couples for child spacing,
rommnity involvement in the promotion of family planning, and greater use
of interpersonal communication and small group meetings to generate demand
for services. More recently, GOI has increased the monetary compensation
paid to sterilization and IUD acceptors, revised the eligibility criteria
for sterilization to include couples with only two children, and promoted
the use of oral contraceptives. A scheme to issue -green cards' to
sterili__ couples entitling them to priority medical attention and other
preferential benefits is also under consideration.
Family Welfare Program Organization
37.    Policy making for population matters, including family planning,
is the joint responsibility of the States and the Central Government, but
program Implementation is a State responsibility. Since the family wel-
fare program (which comprises basically, family planning plus maternal
and child health care), is considered of national Importance, all expendi-
tures incurred by the States are met from Central funds. At the national
level, the Central Health and Family Welfare Council, headed by the Union
Minister of Health and Famlly Welfare and comprising all State Health
Ministers, meets annually and advises on broad policy issues. The GOI
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFU) is responsible for overall
program direction, guidance and evaluation which it exercises through its
Department of Family Welfare. In each major State, there is a Regional
Director of Health and Family Welfare who is responsible to the Center for
1/ An NRR of 1 by 1996 is estimated to imply a stationary population of
about 1.4 billion by the year 2050.



-14-
liaising with the State Government on program implementation and for
providing feed-back information.
38.     In Kerala, the family welfare program is under the overall charge
of the State-s Ministry of Health (MOH) which is responsible for its
implementation through approximately 163 Referral Facilities 1/ and 1,788
subcenters covering a rural population of about 21.3 million (see
para. 41).  At the district level, the District Family lWelfare Bureau
headed by a District Family Welfare Hedical Officer, supervises all
aspects of the program. In c nformity with GOI policy, the Government of
Kerala adopted in May 1983, th, multipurpose approach to health in order
to ensure the integrated delivery of health services, including family
welfare under the proposed project.
39.     The integration of health and family welfare activities in
Karnataka was completed in the mid-seventies. The organization comprises
the Department of Health and Family Welfare headed by a Director at the
State level with responsibility for overlooking the activities of
approximately 305 referral facilities and 3,917 subcenters covering a
population of 27.4 million (see para. 41). The Director is assisted by
Divisional Joint Directors of Health and Family Welfare Services at the
divisional level. At district level, all health and family welfare
activities are supervised by the District Medical Officer.
Delivery of Family Welfare Services
40.     GOI has recognized that some of the major deficiencies in the
present delivery system include low levels of coverage, inadequately
trained staff and an overly centralized organizational structure. To
overcome these shortcomings and to increase the efficiency of the present
system, GOI is promoting a Model Plan of service delivery which it intends
introducing nationwide by the year 2000.
41.     According to GOI-s Model Plan, Primary Health Centers (PHCs) are
to remain at the apex of the delivery system. Each PRC would cover a
community development block with an average population of 80-100,000. PHC
staff include three doctors, one of whom is in overall administrative
charge of all health and family welfare activities in the block.
Eventually, all PHCs will be developed into Community Health Centers
(CHCs) providing specialist obstetric and pediatric services. Below the
PHCs are the Subsidiary Health Centers (SHCs) with one doctor supported by
a female Health Assistant (HA), a male HA and a Community Health Officer.
There would be two SHCs in each block. Each PHC and SHC will supervise
the work of about four sub-centers. On an average each subcenter would
serve a population of about 5000. The PHC and SHCs will also function as
subcenters each serving a population of about 5000 in addition to their
1/ Community Health Centers, Primary Health Centers and Subsidiary
Health Centers.



-15-
other functions. The subcenters are the principal points of contact with
eligible couples for family planning motivation and acceptance. Services
are provided through the subcenters by one female and one male
Multipurpose Worker (MPW).  The responsibilit.es of female MPWs are
diverse and include the provision of pre- and post-natal services to
mothers and children, disseminating family planning information, dis-
tributing conventional contraceptives such as condoms, and delivering
babies. The male MPW also provides family planning information and dis-
tributes condoms, but concentrates mainly on environmental sanitation. In
the PHCs and SUCs, a female HA and a male HA each supervise four femAle
and four male MPWs respectively at the subcenters.  The NPWs in turn are
to be supported by one dai (traditional birth attendant) and one Village
Health Guide per 1000 rural population.
Back Group Activities in the Sector
42.     The first Population Project (Credit 312-IN, US$21.2 million,
1972) covered selected districts of Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka and sought
to provide all the necessary health infrastructure and service facilities
in these districts. Additional inputs were provided for an urban program,
an intensive rural program, a supplementary nutrition program, and a
management information and evaluation system. Health management units
were also established at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad,
and at the Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad. Overall, the
project was well implemented, although there was a two year delay in the
credit closing date primarily to allow experimental project components
which were interrupted during the Emergency to continue. The Project
Completion Report and Project Performance Audit Report (December 31, 1981)
concluded that the project was implemented largely as designed. The
reports noted some weaknesses in design and delays in the execution of
some project components and concluded that these could have been avoided
if State and district level staff had been involved in the formulation of
the project. This has been done in the preparation of the second and the
presently proposed third project.
43.     The lessons learnt from the First Population Project were incor-
porated into the GOI Model Plan (see para. 41), which provided the basis
for a US$48 million credit for the Second Population Project
(Credit 981-IN, 1980) covering selected districts in the States of Uttar
Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. This project also focuses on improving
reporting and evaluation systems, professional and management training,
and the provision of services in inadequately covered rural areas and
funds the development of essential IEC activities. Implementation of this
project is proceeding satisfactorily.
44.     In addition, the Bank Group has supported maternal and child
health care programs through two of its urban development projects--the
Madras Urban Development Project (Cr. 687-IN, US$24 million, 1977) and the
Second Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr. 756-IN, US$87 million,
1978). The Madras project has been satisfactorily completed and a Project
Completion Report is presently under preparation. The Calcutta project



-16-
is progressing satisfactorily. The Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project
(Credit 1003-IN, US$32 million, 1980) focuses on improving the nutrition
oF preschool children between 6 and 36 months through nutrition delivery
services and supports the development of other maternal and child health
services. It is also progressing satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.     The proposed project was prepared by the Directorates of Health
and Family Welfare of the State Governments of Karnataka and Kerala with
assistance from the GOI Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. It was
appraised in April/May 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in
October 1983, with Mr. S.P. Bajpai of the Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of the Indian Delegation. The Staff
Appraisal Report No. 4691-IN dated November 9, 1983, is being distributed
to Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is
attached as Annex III.
Project Concept and Objectives
46.     The proposed project has been designed to assist GOI in the
development of its integrated health and family welfare program (see
para. 41) targetted for implementation throughout India by the year 2000.
It represents a further development of the area-specific programs for
which GOI has sought external assistance from various multilateral and
bilateral agencies. The project would cover six districts of the State of
Karnataka and four districts of Kerala, selected according to criteria
which indicate their relative backwardness in terms of socio-economic
development and health services infrastructure, as well as high fertility
and mortality levels (see paras 31 and 32). The project would have as its
major objectives the reduction of fertility and the lowering of infant,
-hild and maternal mortality and morbidity, as well as the amelioration of
program constraints at the State and district level.
47.     To achieve these objectives, the project would support the
implementation of a service delivery system (see para. 41) focussing on
specific programs, the generation of demand for services, and improvement
of management, planning, monitoring and evaluation systems.  The project
would also aim at improving professional and technical skills through
programs of training and retraining, and at developing information, educa-
tion and communication strategies which reinforce and support program
interventions through inter-personal communication and available mass
media channels.
Project Description
48.     Service Delivery.  The project would bring the ten project dis-
tricts in the two States under GOI s Model Plan (see para. 41). To imple-



-17-
ment the scheme, the number of subcenters in Karnataka will be increased
from 1,411 to 1,944 and in Kerala from 518 to 1,378. Through this
expansion, the coverage of rural inhabitants by each subcenter would be
reduced from the present level of some 6,800 in Karnataka and 11,300 in
Kerala, to a little below 5,000 at the end of the project (1989). There
is currently a shortage of accommodation in both States and a significant
number of subcenters are housed in rented buildings. It is, however, not
intended to construct the full complement of buildings to meet the backlog
and proposed requirements for accommodation under the project, as this
would not be replicable under GOI-s national program due to financial
constraints. In accordance with GOI-s program of providing about 50% of
all subcenters with appropriate buildings by the end of the Seventh Five
Year Plan period (1989), about 650 subcenters would be built in the
project districts of Karnataka and 570 in Kerala. The remaining sub-
centers would function in rented buildings which would be fully furnished
and equipped for the purpose.
49.     To provide more adequate family welfare referral services and
improve service management in Primary Health Center (PUC) blocks, existing
facilities called primary health units in Karnataka and dispensaries in
Kerala would be upgraded to the status of Subsidiary Health Centers (SHC).
The present facilities are staffed by a doctor assisted by supporting
staff and financed from state revenues. They would be provided with a
ten-bed ward, an operating theatre and a laboratory. Two such facilities
in each PHC block would be selected for upgrading to SHCs. Approximately
240 SHCs in Karnataka and 80 in Kerala would be created under the proposed
project. There are currently 120 PHCs in Karnataka and 39 in Kerala.
Under the project, 22 such PRCs and 8 subdivisional (Taluk) hospitals in
Karnataka, and 9 PHCs in Kerala would be upgraded to the level of
Community Health Centers (CHCs) by the addition of a ter-bed ward, an
operating theatre and offices for additional posts of obstetrician and
pediatrician. On account of the irregular and sparse distribution of PHCs
in the project districts of Kerala and the relative shortage of hospital
facilities providing family welfare referral services, 15 Subdivisional
(Taluk) hospitals would also be expanded to include a tenrbed ward and
operating theatre. To serve the project needs of Kerala's itinerant
tribal population living in remote hilly areas, outreach work would be
undertaken using four wheel drive vehicles to deliver family welfare
services.
50.     The level of staffing in both States would be increased under the
project in line with the proposed expansion of service coverage. To
ensure that the desired level of services is maintained, about 620 addi-
tional female MPWs will be employed in Karnataka and 930 in Kerala by the
end of the project period (1989). The present cadre of male MPWs in
Karnataka is adequate to meet project requirements, while about 450 addi-
tional male MPWs would be required in Kerala. To supervise the MPWs,
about 40 additional trained Health Assistants (HA) would be provided for
Karnataka and 150 for Kerala to meet project requirements. Karnataka
would also recruit and train about 240 Community Health Officers (CHOs).
A curriculum for a six-month training course for CHOs would be furnished



-18-
by Karnataka to the Association for its review and comment ttO later than
March 31, 1984 (See Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement). The lack of
staff mobility seriously affects both service delivery as well as program
supervision. To alleviate this situation in the project districts of both
States, transport would be provided to replace unroadworthy vehicles and
to meet new requirements. Adequate vehicle maintenance facilities would
also be established.
51.     The expansion of facilities and staffing would substantially
increase the availability of family welfare services. In order to ensure
a major impact on fertility and infant mortality, specific health and
family planning measures will be emphasized under the project. A strategy
paper on family planning and MCH incorporating the desired emphasis on
these measures has been prepared as the basis for staff in-service train-
ing and reorientation. It would also help to strengthen managerial
attitudes towards program improvements and will be used as a guide to
monitor program implementation.
52.     Training.  To improve the quality of existing staff as well as new
staff recruited for the extended coverage of family welfare services, the
project would provide facilities for basic pre-service training and for
upgrading professional skills. In both Karnataka and Kerala, all MPWs and
HAs would be trained in either existing training schools which would be
expanded, or in rented accommodation. Additional training facilities
would also be provided in non-district training schools to cope with the
large numbers to be trained initially. Over 90% of the sanctioned male
fPW staff positions in Karnataka and 85% in Kerala, as well as 90% of the
sanctioned posiLions for male HAs in Kerala, would be filled with trained
staff by the end of the project period. Outstanding training requirements
for the sanctioned levels of these categories of staff would be met within
two years of project completion.
53.     In addition to supporting basic training, the project would
provide for the retraining of all staff to upgrade professional skills,
broaden attitudes towards family planning methods, and ensure that the
program strategy is clearly understood (see para. 51). As an essential
preliminary step, a six week survey would be undertaken in each State by a
team of specialists to identify more precisely gaps in the skills,
knowledge and practice of staff involved in the delivery of family welfare
services. The results of the survey will be furnished to the Association
for review and comment by May 1, 1984 (See Section 2.11 of the Project
Agreement). The information collected would be used to develop curricula
for retraining courses. The curricula and a timetable for the retraining
of staff in project districts would be furnished to the Association
annually for its review and comment, no later than two months before the
start of each fiscal year. (See Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
The retraining of staff is presently undertaken by PHC doctors on an ad
hoc basis. Under the project, a permanent team of teachers drawn from the
staff of teaching institutions and service facilities would organize and
conduct retraining courses at CHCs and PHCs for all levels of staff every
two years. The project would also focus on improving the ianagement



-19-
skills of PHC doctors. To provide a more cohesive approach to service
delivery both States would create a new cadre of physicians who would be
in charge of PUCs and CHCs and all medical and family welfare services
within a block. In Karnataka, management training of this new cadre, as
well as of officials at district and State levels, would be provided at
the Population Center in Bangalore which would be expanded. A committee
under the State Secretary for Health would determine traLning commitments
and a curriculum, drawing on the expertise of the Indian Institutes of
Management at Bangalore and Ahmedabad, and the Indian Society of Health
Administration, Bangalore.  In Kerala, the Institute of Administration and
Government at Trivandrum would be responsible for management training.
The project would also provide for study tours for officials from both
States to visit institutes and States in which management training is
presently being conducted.
Demand Generation
54.     While surveys in both Karnataka and Kerala show that about 90. of
the women between the ages of 15 to 49 are aware of family planning, only
about 20% in the project districts are currently protected by any modern
contraceptive method. Much greater emphasis on demand generation would be
necessary if the 60 percent contraceptive prevalence objective set for the
national program is to be achieved. The project would, therefore, focus
more closely on Information, Education and Communication (IEC) strategies
which support priority service interventions and address specific sections
of the community throughout both States. Present IEC activities in the
project States are carried out as routine government functions. Under the
project, these activities would be strengthened to: (a) build on the wide
base of family welfare awareness that already exists and generate a
greater demand for family welfare services; (b) integrate family planning
communication into the larger context of community health and mother-child
care; (c) create a media setting that would help family welfare workers to
gain greater credibility and acceptance in the community; (d) obtain
recognition and support for the family welfare program from other govern-
ment departments and voluntary agencies; and (e) win the approval of
social leaders and other influential citizens for project purposes and
actions.
55.     The IEC strategies developed under the project would focus on
specific target groups using all available media approaches - interper-
sonal communication, comiunity education and mass media - in a coordinated
fashion. In order to do this, the IEC organization would be strengthened
by the appointment of a qualified IEC specialist with the rank of Joint
Director in both Karnataka and Kerala by May 1, 1984 (See Section 2.12(a)
of the Project Agreement). For both these posts, staff with wide profes-
sional skills will be recruited. IEC staff at State, division and dis-
trict level would be strengthened as necessary and their technical and
planning skills upgraded. To support the regular IEC Staff, each State
will use the services of a qualified IEC consultant to be appointed by
May 1, 1984 for a total of 16 man-months during the project implementation
period (See Section 2.12(b) of the Project Agreement). Detailed



-20-
strategies drawn up by the IEC Directorate of each State would be made
available to the Association for review and comment no later than two
months before the start of each fiscal year (See Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement). Interpersonal communication is presently carried out
by the female and male MPWs who have had no training in communication
work. The retraining courses (see paragraph 53) would provide for simple
training in IEC techniques. The retraiiing provided to doctors and other
staff would enable them to provide MPWs and IEC staff with knowledgeable
support.
56.     As the main thrust of MPW activities would be on service delivery,
it would leave them little time for personal counselling. The project
would, therefore, supplement personal counselling with community education
by extending the use of Orientation Training Camps (OTCs) developed under
the Second Population Project. In OTCs organized by Block Extension
Educators supplied with specially designed IEC kits, posters and other
relevant and publicity material, small numbers of local leaders, teachers,
women's representatives, private medical practitioners and government
representatives would be exposed to official family welfare policies and
programs, be encouraged to express their reactions and to lend support to
the program. The project would also provide for the introduction oa
population education in colleges and in adult education movements. In
Kerala this effort would be supplemented by the use and expansion of the
existing number of Mahilasamajam (women's village groupings of 50-75 which
promote family welfare education). Also in Kerala, books on population
and family welfare subjects would be channeled into volunteer youth
libraries. To promote community participation and maintain regular con-
tacts between family welfare staff and community leaders, family welfare
committees established at subcenter, block and district levels would
organize IEC strategies and activities. Workshops and seminars would also
be organized to enlist the creative talents of writers, journalists, film
producers and directors in the promotion of IEC work.
57.     Mass media promotional work would reinforce the efforts of inter-
personal and group communications particularly in spreading awareness of
new information on such subjects as oral rehydration and alternative
contraceptive methods. Mass communication would be undertaken by means of
feature films, audio-visual aids, cultural programs, slides, video service
and extension education in other development agencies. The project would
provide vehicles, equipment and materials for all IEC activities where
necessa:y.
Project Organization and Management
58.     The structure of the organization responsible for project
implementation substantially follows that of the First and Second
Population Projects (Credits 312-IN and 981-IN).  GOI's Ministry of Health
and Family Welfare would coordinate the activities of both States and
oversee the implementation of the project. At the State level, a
Governing Board of senior State officials and GOI representatives would be
responsible for removing administrative bottlenecks, ensuring inter-



-21-
hepartmental coordination in program implementation, reviewing project
progress and suggesting ways and means of improving program performance.
Overall supervision of the day to day implementation work would be
entrusted to a Steering Committee in both States chaired by the Health
Secretary. Special implementation committees would also be established at
divisional (Karnataka only) and district level. Representatives of volun-
tary organizations would be included in these special implementation
cciumittees to assist in project implementation at the district level.
59.    To ensure that both physical implementation of project works and
program performance are equally emphasized, overall project management
in each State would be entrusted to a Project Coordinator or the rank of
Additional Secretary. These officers would coordinate the activities of
the Departments of Public Works, Education, and Health and Family Welfare
which would implement the project. To cope with the expanded program
proposed for this project, the Staff of the Departments of Education, and
Health and Family Welfare of each State would be strengthened on a per-
mWtent 6asis. Tha P-blic UntiA nepartments would however use the services
of additional staff on a temporary basis as required to undertake the
extra construction work generated by the project. Project officers drawn
from the revenue cadre will be appointed in each district to assist in
site selection and acquisition. When these functions have been completed
they will be replaced by medical officers who will asaist in program
implementation.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Operation Research
60.    A management, information and evaluation system (MIES) was
developed for the project districts under the First Population Project
(Credit 312-IN) to provide accurate information quickly to program
managers to enable them to monitor performance and provide their staff
with appropriate feedback. Under the proposed project, this system will
be Implemented State-wide in phases starting with the project districts
thus providing both States with the capability of targetting performance
more realistically than is presently possible. The shortage of critical
demographic information required for monitoring and evaluation will be
alleviated through surveys conducted by the Bangalore Population Center in
Karnataka and in Kerala jointly by the Directorate of Health, the State
Department of Economics and Statistics, and the Demographic Training and
Research Center. The information collected would also be used to refine
project performance indicators set out in the strategy paper and for the
purpose of establishing a baseline for final project evaluation. The
project would also provide for operational research through a nmber of
studies to assist program managers in an ongoing evaluation of project
implementation and program performance. In order to carry out the
proposed monitoring and research activities more effectively, the statis-
tical capability of each State will be strengthened. Because of the
distance of the Bangalore Population Center from the project districts
(350 km), a field unit would be set up at Gulbarga to serve the needs of
the project. The States would each undertake a mid-term review of the
progress of each component of the project and of the performance of the



-22-
family welfare program in the selected districts. They would furnish the
results of such review to the Association for its comwents not later than
September 30, 1986 and undertake any necessary actions as agreed upon with
the Association (See Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
61.    The total project cost is estimated at US$123.5 million
equivalent, of which US$73.1 million is for Karnataka and US$50.4 million
for Kerala. About US$7.5 million of taxes and duties and US$12.3 million
(10Z) of foreign exchange costs are included in the total cost.
Approximately US$80.6 million of project costs would be for strengthening
service delivery, US$6.4 million for demand generation activities (i.e.
population education and IEC work), US$2.7 milnion for research and
evaluation, and US$7.6 m411ion for project management. Physical contin-
gencies amount to approximately US$3.2 million, while price contingencies
amount to US$23.0 million. Price contingencies for local costs are based
on annual price increases of 7Z for 1983184 and 1984/85, 8Z for 1985186
and 1986187, and 6S thereafter. For the foreign exchange component, price
contingencies of 4.8Z for 1983/84, 9.5Z for 1984/85, 9.12 for 1985/86,
7.51 for 1986/87 and 62 annually thereafter, have been used.
Approximately 32 man-months of local consultancy services would be needed
for the project. These services would-be required to support the regular
IEC staff in implementing the IEC component of the project (see para. 55).
The average man-month cost including salary, fees and subsistence is
expected to be about US$1000.
62.    Since the family welfare program is centrally sponsored the bulk
of the costs during the project implementation period (FY 1984/85 through
FY 1988/89) in both States would be borne by GOI. After project
completion, annual incremental recurrent expenditures of approximately
Rs 32 million CUS$3.3 million) at FY 1982/83 prices would be required by
each State for FY 1989/90 and thereafter. Given the expected growth in
the budgets of the Departments of Health and Family Welfare in Karnataka
and Kerala, these incremental recurrent costs would be absorbed in the
corresponding now-Plan budgets without much difficulty. The planning and
finance ministries in both States have reviewed and approved the proposed
project.        w
63.    The proposed IDA Credit of US$70 million equivalent would fi-nace
about 601 of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties. The balance
of US$53.5 million would be provided by GOl and the State Governments.
The Credit covers 1001 of the foreign exchange ocits of the project and
561 of local costs net of taxes and duties. The project would also
provide retroactive financing of up to US$0.7 million, for expenditures
incurred after July 1, 1983 for essential start-up activities such as the
establishment of construction units, training, preparation for baseline
surveys and MIES.



-23-
Procurement and Disbursement
64.     Contracts for civil works (USS 53.9 million excluding
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures of the States concerned, which are satisfac-
tory to the Association. Civil works contract., including extensions to
existing buildings, would be small and widely dispersed in time and place,
and would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.
Difficulties have been experienced in the previous population projects in
retaining contractors to work on small buildings in isolated areas.
Consequently, a small proportion of the civil works, not more than 302 of
the total, would be carried out departmentally. In the interest of ensur-
ing adequate maintenance and spares, vebicles required for the project
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA. Similar procedures would be used for the purchase of furniture
made from indigenous timbers suited to local climatic conditions.
Contracts for furniture estimated to cost less than US$25,000 each, up to
an aggregate value of US$250,000 in each State would be made through
prudent shopping based on at least three quotations. The bulk of the
equipment required for the project is made up of a large number of items
of small value with limited opportunity for packaging in lots large enough
to attract foreign suppliers. However, where possible, equipment will be
packaged into contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more and awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with IDA-s guidelines for procurement. A preference margin
of 15% of the c.i.f. value would be granted to local manufacturers in bid
evaluation. Contracts for equipment below US$100,000 equivalent each, up
to an aggregate of US$2.0 million in each State, would be procured follow-
ing local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
Purchases of equipment below US$25,000 equivalent would be through prudent
shopping based on at least three quotations. The aggregate value of such
contracts is limited to the equivalent of US$500,000 in each State.
65.    The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 1002 of the
cost of directly imported equipment; 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment; 70Z of expenditures for locally procured
equipment; 602 of the cost of civil works, furniture and vehicles and 40Z
of the cost of training, consultant services, staff salaries and other
operating and maintenance expenses. As in the first and second Population
Projects (Credits 312-IN and 981-IN), all disbursements would be made
against certified statements of expenditure to be supplied by the GOI
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOMFW). Supporting documentation
would be retained by GOI for inspection by IDA during project supervision.
The project accounts audited by the Auditor-General of India would be made
available to the Association within 9 months after the close of each
fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
66.     The major benefit of the project would be to provide expanded and
improved family planning and maternal and child health services to a rural



-24-
population of about 18 million in both States, as part of a comprehensive
program that would gradually cover the whole country. By concentrating
on priority service interventions and on developing a demand generation
component, the project is expected to help to increase levels of con-
traceptive prevalence In the project districts in Karnataka from its
present level of 24% of eligible couples to about 43Z by 1989. For
Kerala, the comparable expected increase is from 17% to about 33%. The
project would also have state-wide benefits through the introduction of
population education in colleges and in adult education movements (see
para. 56). Some 225,000 potential opinion leaders would be reached. The
MIES system would provide information for improved program planning and
targetting, and help to imrove monitoring and evaluation of program
performance. Finally, the IEC component would establish more systematic
approaches to demand generation which should be replicable in other dis-
tricts and States.
67.    In view of the good administrative record of both States, the
risks in project implementation are expected to be minimal. Some dif-
ficulty is seen in changing State program staff attitudes to bring the
into line with GOI-s program strategy. It is proposed to overcome this
problem through extensive project orientation and retraining. The dif-
ficulty of providing effective professional inputs for the TEC program
would be met by the use of local consultants of proven capability to
support regular IEC Staff. With 'ircreased attention being paid Lo demand
generation, the raising of contraceptive prevalence in the project dis-
tricts to the levels projected although difficult should be attainable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement, between the Association and the
States of Karnataka and Kerala, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69r     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.    1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
November 18, 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
Paw5 .1 of i
mu                    -=W soc                 MWsDrks 
USiA              ApSOCK  -80 RATUS                         4138AV  ) fg
,06?                    (? USCUT ,  lC"  T A    C) Al
1~~~~38?                            i . as     x .    IODIr
1964  s,1uh~k ,sm,am~    A26 4 PACIFIC         -ASA & PACIFIC
ama (wTnm .s
TOTAL                           2287.6    3287.6       3287.6
C31atO3S                      51760.7    17 0.5       SIlLt.
aw  ma       Corn ) c                70.0      Lo.        260.e             276.7                   102.6
CA*   OF COAL PQ4ILYU             14.0     1t40s0       210.0            293.5                   732.3
POPULATMa.NXI-Ita wCtmmaU) 64390.a   36330.0   691013.0 
uas POHE.ArtI  Qa TOTFS.)-        13r.0      59.3       23_               2t.5                     3229
P015.6710W PU0JZf=MUe
*OLATIO  I7J    200 C0.)                             101.
SmTKOulW FtPU1AfDM CUES)                             5836.3
TM STTIOIW POP. ND   A D                             2140
PMQ. 81.                       132.3      1366       20%3              161.7                    260.7
PM SQ. 1l. &m. UI              267.0      320.3       n2.7             363.t                   196.35
POPW.ATIO AC31900C015(C)
0-14 13                        40.9        Q2.1       29.7              36.J6                    9.4
136135                           6.5       3.2        374               3.2                      5.2S
65 AND AW9           .*6                    3.5         3.0              4.2                      3.3
P0PULATIO  GWIW LAT  CZ)
TO.                              tLa        2.1        2.t               1.9                      2.2
036                              2.S        3.2        3.7               4.0                      2.9
CUD  M11   ATZ CPUS ?NODS)        43.7        0.0       35.4              29.3                    31.3
CR! BLUR RAM CPU 1 ) 2N.6                    t6.        13.3              10.9                     9.6
CRS3s 1U I0W 1IRAW                 2.9        Z.7        2.4               2.0                     2.0
ACCEs,. ANEL C130)              56.0     3M2.0       6360 .
-S3R (Z w K It  NOR .=                     12.0       23.0              43.5                     4L6
or MM101_ NM cwm
(190-31-200)                      "-0       102.0      103.0             It.14                   125.2
PQ CAPMTA D?. 0
CS.1I5 tzCo sRU0kS)             96.0       90.0        81.0             98.2                    114.2
PR-TES t(Con PU DAY)            s4.0       30.0       47.0              56.7                    53.9
oO1  A105 AND P1 w5 17.0                  1M.0        13.91c           13.9                     14.1
aIK  CAM  1-4) ON0M1 PAIS         26.2       28.7       57.0       t       2.2                     3.4
LIrt Eccr. AT V1= (tEEN)          62.2       6I1         32.2             59.6                     60.2
1X80    It. NATE (MM WS)           S.0      M39.0      121.2              96.6                    63
TorS.                             ..       37.0       33.61d            32.9                     37.1
It                     ..       ~~~~~~~~~ ~             ~~60.0  MO.W  me.             5 .8
01362                    ~..        o.o       ze.o             io.s                     36.3
nuSS                              ..        6.0        mawQ             32.2                     26.4
ASS TO XA   D1505E
CZ or UoGpATII
TOML                              ..       13.0        20.01.           l.1                      4t.4
0Do                               ..       83.0       87.O7              2.7                    47.5
m&                                ..0                 2. 6e             4.7                    33.4
LAiO  PU HPC                    48.0       r890.0     3660.0e1          3306.0      n      n       1.9
PVW. 0E1 PUSUC 838903          Le9e.qf   6380.0    5"0.07               427.9                   2462.6
MOr. P  Nosp     ur
n0 1                          210.o0    1650.0    t13t"1              110o.6                   2067.2
0131                              ..                 370.071           206.6                    652.1
3355.  ..  ..    10610.071          3 0S.6                  2591.9
6341551033 PMUS 30 A175. 330        ..         ..         ..                ..                    27.0
R    sni or IImgQDo
TOMAl.                           5.2        5.6        5.21.
go"'                             5.2        3.6        4.s7..
M3c.                             5.2        5.4         5.7 .
Awage NM or PsOuows/RU
TOM                              2.6        2.8
0U41l                            2.6        2..
USa.                             Z.6        2..
ACCS   TO 6CU?. CZOF UUM3IM3)
TO                                ..         ...
SUM                      ..         ..          .                 ..
SUS                               ..         ..          .                 ..



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
AN=EX I
Page 2 of 5
Ul - L  DIIU TDTA 
_WUU     SW     (UCU D aV sJ Is
306?                    ODST UCUII ESgTIAIX) /b
audmur            LL  z1oms             xMW.K Tocm, 
1960&      1970&  iSTuIAThSMIA "U   PIACmC                 AMSI   PACIFIC
IDiUUS  TOM                      *1.0       73.0        75.01f            96.1                    101.2
ISUt                   *0.0.0      0.0        0.07a            107.3                    106.0
PUlLS                 40.0        5S.0       61.GF              32.9                    s7.s
SUWIAR: TOa.                     20.0       26.0        28.0/f            30.2                     44.9
1NE                    30.0       36.0       3d.67              37.3                     50.0
lUlLC                 10.0        15.0       I6.071             22.2                    ".6
WoCATIOIIC (or 300346               2.8        1.0         0.7/.             2.3                     16.5
muUW                             46.0       41.0        43.0/f            34.4                     32.7
S301mM!                          16.0       21.0          ..              18.4                     23.4
MILT Lt URAC  AM  CZ)              27.6       33.4        30                53.5                     72.9
p15=03 CASSIUOUSAI pop              0.6        1.1         1.3/f             1.6                     9.7
mmro  CCDUcts/U_A   PM              4.9       21.5        44.4C             96.8                    113.7
TV        _ cuvzaS/ruoOSM  lop      0.0        0.0         1.7               9.9                     50.1
NWvsWAIE (-AZT cmama.
ME TlOWAPO UPIILCTIOE             10.6       16.2        19.7              16.4                     54.0
CUUA AUflL ATUUDAX/CAI              3.2        *.1        3.7/.              3.6                     3.4
L~ 
TD. LASO 1y12 CnPO)            165931.0   2M99.0   271179.0
iugEar tChuAm)                   30.7       32.3        31.3              33.3                     33.6
A=iLUZ C,Tuc)                    74.0       74.0        69.3              69.0                     50.9
hu5Sh!! t(1323)                  11.0       11.0        13.Z              15.6                    19.2
PAITICI1TIO  311 CIZERc2UT)
Ton                              62.3       *0.0        39.3              42.5                     36.6
OWt                              37.0       52.4        51.9              54.4                     50.7
27.3       26.9       25.9              29.3                     26.6
z:aa    DgC,     RAI             1.1        1.1         1.1               1.0                      1.1
tins   u OF  rA
u1030  5! OF SOIZUUS             26.7       Z.3/         2.2              16.5                     22.2
UlCRCsT 201 CorNt luSE s         51.7       4L9B7E      4.474 3.5                                 48.0
LOUiS? 201 or  _uUe.DS            *.1        *.mx        7.d7              6.9                      6.6
Lo.0Sr 401 OF 303K.DS            13.6       17.27C      16.27w            17.5                     15.5
ron      Qa r       
ZSTIHAIO *550a.01 MWPVT IlOUu
L1EL CS P   CAPI)1
013*3                              ..         ..       Z32.0             133.9                    194.S
OUIE                               ..         ..       114.0             111.6                    155.0
ZgTDIA13 REATIYK 10931  ISU
LZVEI  CM PER CAPI)0
_ma                                ..         ..          ..                ..                   IS8.0
RUWL                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~164.8
nUSTUADi Wf.       AUSSLnK
f013   t? lElC LV. C3)
*                                  ..         ..        40.3              43.3                     26.6
R                                  ..         ..        50.7              51.7                    41.1
M.?r ATAILA
nor AmArL                                     
*  1T- gvop werws for amwb tlaitmrsor are popultio-usUbted a*-ieImtena mem.  Coaerqe of cinctl.. smog the
taditators dapwAsm availabtlity of data MA  o mat nitform.
/b Valmm otlhe,im. meted. -oto fer 1960- rfer to an year betumm 1959 aed 1961; Data for 1970- betwen 1969 and
- 1971; and dat& .r. -bt itat SatAmet betwern 1979 &*m  1961.
1. 1977; /d 1976; /1 1975; If N978; / 1962; /h 1964-65.
Phy 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                                                                                              PAgNe3 of 
a" luictie at mc.ztPage93Iof.r
km.,eJ.m.al l        ...  ..Aai r.  cc-  cclP.tLL. jbdI4"  it.  -81.mtliticIerlt.  i60.   i I  cc iItr-, gt  6.t.6.I
tcep.rcl. b.c... -,  It  -b  mm mm=.mric  d. Il.te..   ad  _c ,.I. tctd bhi d166rwim.Ii=I   cl.tiaI.Mt.I,  ae   t,                                                 .ist..    61
ichJrt tc. . it  9i ~6gt  .cm.   dlit.prlct9  gr.p  l.9r   -t4d6. Ita   9tlAilm   c    idd. taci   1 I. c -.c   I.e..-  .6c.m.rc..-nt.
.tt.ll.t.    .iimrmc.ccc*r.r ifl*par  r.mtt ic  crg6tc   clt.tI   i...Cc  c.'  6.l,l.  .a  i..  .lr   .ccanrl, 69.6.  csmir..i.
gr..  -.4.1  f.st.clmmliacr. Sli. et. . w..   ccitrlc a.iglb.lter.i.mm   .p.mac.i,it,.a.ilatIlid.241Ftte    --*.l tttcf. ..66c Cii                            d
.nct.c   tmr.tt Ia m.nc~  c  mm. tdlptwiit   witct.lii..  jc.a..sily    9lcIIc  ctprlig i.  a,.  6 a. imdiaic  ama is.  .8.             ait  rectr  an
tcc..i.--rmcp.
ca. tm..at .        q.i.l                                                                                       M16.a.i . -.                                                                  L,tlpc     tmutilidile   lvt r   teactt
-  .. i0c60ccrcrl,m    .                         t. We      .cd   ..c;   ,1                                p,[;l..,..ll.    tiLc.ii  ,.cPc cietw-tct
t,.1Ecr  cite  ti.j  Pt.                                                                                    tcg.citc    .,rlrtt    .r. Itmmpctatlumc2" 01b   diii   i tiira   r.attlc
icr  ripm~  ittt... .rkt..   6it...t a-d-c  tm   t  666                -I-,                                   "tili.ri-P.P..db
-                j~ffCft~j5At-1         l  -M,3   cP. -., - tit              ..   mcci  Ic.i   r,.                                 ictl.  I. 6aIlm.c   rr. .-ml  cd.p .t. -t  Ilctic al-id'
nii.rt.ict.tcd   . 8f!4h..   atti1669-t  t.6t6               rr.i,ti.i  .9   -It.   ictpt.t  ..  ctattn-,lbf.9c,cty  lefl-
tie.tM..    ll  dw                                                                          l  6   ..6         tirlt..r.fltb.w.   iclti-pimt-i1  ti-4e
..a  mcct.r.ai c   F..irrg .i Itit         ftI.2 6.cr.  9   ,.. . c  l r pcrl.:                           rcd         iic    ricc   ii             ftt.  it i-.  tsrttaitii-.   ncc.t.
ti0O  49.  "' twit d..                                                                                        r.ri.rtt   cucc66.r.irIe..e    .rit..                                      .c
I-bi-I                        f-I P-  -11-                                                   L%bb.~~~~~~~t.rtet.  in   -  r..e I licciii bc cdlt l   -.l ti  8lpi
t.r.tiii      ttcl  6?Ctti6   -Icc.tcmd=cItstm   rc   t'.ee   .a.t.rrliat
i..tt..6.t.i.  66nr!  .  .ec.t-       .   tt  t  660   i?9  a    696           M itlct   r   c.tttic   -Tect...r.9adt.tc-mIc*rdtitb.c
e.t.-t.F.pi..L*.ateir  t,  t r  ,  tet
ittltpcp.tt.ci  y -r      ci..966   6.-I. tttlti MS  .t-tlip                            ha             "ll.ct    ... .tet6. t'f.i  p I=rp.tP..                         I
it.... ft. itapipi.9.. 6.riilt itttcat..    -  itt.  Ip.ictccc.attc1  rcrt.-                                               Id.               .-         t,9     -
tt.tcmmac titiitcc   9i..iItci.    _ctlt.t. tii I                 Iit-.tl
.19- i,.  trh  rt.  . cm.l I  ii. 4.imbbrat9   .41. 6t,.  r-.                           Ii'l--i.-C*tiii(I.I'd                                                                   --
t:r.i-t  tcai- mcsi-.Titi   ciccdFt   f-cfr   lt   rt                                                            etrtt.tSi
tc.lccI.t-i r(L.           cci   ..t    Liii   M"i  *rdciIt.-rd.  .Ac Id-..tmt-tce    c-.i   a~t       c.   .et   .caEf.t
r.mtilaitcc  cIt. tIlt  -  r9actlpeL                                                       Sc-.id .rct.1 - i.it.t.t               Sie.-~nte-c..                           tdr
tcc.i.Icc 6-cItt                                                         .al lacr..icr.t .tl.a.t  .6cr c.ar. .  atlr.c.d  rm.ati  ectittt IT.
1.. cc  --  .rt.ctcrC  ltmc -C..y.tpc  .  alt.  icr  lpaiiral lte                  .ct.tclIt --     lacrd
snp1in.tiI   I    twa"dte  4-d.I 161a  prtlt.   -t.                                                                               WI .... .at.ltdi - 1.ttaa    tcttt
tctitmt  C dti  La.  trt          I,t- .tu    rct  an.   titte                                         rt. c    t             Fc-a.t Ic -t eI.-C.  17.tat-I.cl                   t* It  Ft--
ncr~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~b pc.ttt.".i f.t.t.tbt-7    -ad-99-t                                             r,p. -d is icc..Ji.W
tcpt.tmtcCr.ttl.i  fttrctl- at..-   mmcl sc.666ret. .  ,r.cScI  tua.    l.ip.t..ti -1. ULcrsLeitti  I-A. III r                                                        .-    wlt).
FrI. mrttp6..r.a                t- I.    cit  f6t,    tt            ttee.   1
~~~fp9lc   .1. I-  tlc    -abcI idctimipr. c-ad's   .11   -t  a                                                                                7 ir   cicem
tc.#.Ucetcac . rl.   6   i  crit.rttisi    aic-..c166'                                         1-i    Ic'M. r d ii.r   "ti..c.  icitl.i-ai    i.   6ct.a                         t.  I. tdl
191                                                                                             Iti.ticd  Pnp"-   f.   9  l~dic.t. i   ..it6..aI   cits.ra.rlc    irt
ci lttI-citc6i*9ira  c6 -r ai it.c.   cltt91y  tmwc                                                 .ct.    Lt.t.d  tli.itmmtca.b.
W.tt.mm                                                                                      ft ir-.-ctcPtb   it. i.m.Z-    lccttl.t L.        "Itti.r cd           hcecmmi
mlt .1~ cii r.  ,                                                                                                                 cI...rcicm.r.i.,.ti...              . .ct      a.. a-I..rtctd.
ttp..1t.,  icc,t.~.r    dl,.391.3                .     '1.    .   r..i9                               ,.-696t. at bbd'iet  ..pccr'    t. ..c    ct    1  c..ic.
=z-ccal,           i.  i  att    n.taci.er  c  c   a                     .tt.I                                 tIt             P-wcL--ii..                          - .1 -
ta.c   ci .am cl  .ccrLa. rtd-c.r.ric. icitic;  11d6I161.                                                                                                                  FF9 ctm    --I
Si..                                                                                                    Lcca i. I.   t..



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                                   PagE #.o-f s
EcO2fIAC DEVELO?N    DATA
GNp PER CAPITA  EN 1981 US$250
GROSS NATIONAL PowCr IN 1981182                                                    ANUaL RATE CF GROWH tS, constat prices)
USS Bin.    S                1955156-1959160  1960t61-1964165  1965/66-1969/70  1970171-1974/75
ONP at Market PriceS         165.38    100.0                     3.7             3.6             3.6             2.9
Gros. Doustic Investment    41.74    25.2
Grass Ntational Saving        37.66    22.8
Current Account Balance      -4.08    - 2.4
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCrITVLY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)        Labor Farce i/         V.A. Per Warker
USS Bln.          2            N.         2                05         of Natioala Avare
Algriculture                 39.8             39.6          180.6    70.7               220           56
Industry                     25.2             25.1           32.2     12.6              783          199
Services                     35.5             35.3           42.6    16.7               833          211
Total/Average                100.5           100.0          255.4   100.0               394          100
GOVERNi!ECT FINAN2CE
General Government         e,                        Central Covernment
Rs. Bln.      2 of CDP                                  R . B.n.       2 of GCD
1961/82    1981112  1977/78-1981/B2                    1981/82    1981/82 1977/78-1961/82
Current Receipts                 285.77      19.4        19.1                            149.2f     10.1       10.4
Current Expenditures            280.34       19.0        18.2                            155.02     10.5       10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit           5.43        0.4         0.9                             -5.75     -0.4       -0.2
Capital Expenditures fI         116.91        7.9         7.8                             83.66      5.7        5.5
External Assiatance (net) dI      16.45       1.1         1.0
:NMEY. CREDrI AND PRICES         1970171  1975/76  1976/77  1977178  1978179  1979/80  1980/81  1931182    February 1982      February 1983
(Rs lillian outstig  at end of perio)
Mney and Quasi Money             110.2    224.8   277.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   554.5   625.5    615.5                          711.7
lnmk Credit to Governuent(net)    54.6     69.2    77.6    76.4    94.2   124.1    164.4   204.4    29Z 2                         353.5
Sank Credit to Coaercial Sector 65.Z    156.2   188.5   212.2   255.3   310.1   362.8   430.4    422.2                            487.7
(percentage or Index Numbers)                        April-Feb 1981t12   April-Feb 1982/83
Money and Qasf Money
as S of GuP                   27.4      30.3    34.6    36.5    41.2    44.1    43.3    42.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1970171 - 100)              10.0    173.0   176.6   185.8   185.8   217.6   257.3   281.3                 281.7          a- z  287.3
Annual percentage change. In:
baolesae Price Index              7.7      -1.1      2.1      5.2      -       17.1    18.2       9.3           10.0                 2.0
Bank Credit to Government (net)  15.0       6.3    11.1    16.3    16.0    25.6    29.6    19.1                 22 7                21.0
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector 20.5       22.7    20.7    12.6    20.3    21.5    17.0    18.7                 20.9 aj             1.5.5 h/
at The per capita GNP estanate is at market t-1ces. using World Bank Atisa   ch.odology basse period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars In this table are at die average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
bl Quick Estimates. Central Statistical Organization.
El Computed froa trend line of GNP at factor cost series. including one observation before first year and one observation after la t
year of liated period.
dl World Bank estimates of net disbursement; not necessarily cansistent with official figures.
eI Trnsfers between Centre and States have been netted oat.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
j/ Percentage chane from  end-Mrch 1981 to end-February 1982.
h/ Percentage chane from eand-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdon frau Sixth Five Year Plan. Table 2.6 and Annexre Table 13.8.



BEST COPY AVAIUBLE
LAtANCE OF PAYMITS             1979/80  1980181  1981182 111982183 !ERCHANDISE EXPCRS (AVERAGE 1978/79-1981'82)
(USS Hiln.)                                                                                               USS 1t0n    I
Exports of Goods                7,948    8.504    3.511    8.800              Enginering Coods              901      1I
lmports of Goods gj           -11.383  -16.119  -15.253  -14.801              Tea                           457       6
Trade  alance                  -3.435   -7.615   -6.742   -6.001              Gem                            759      10
MFs (net)                       1.042    1.365    1.120    1.036              Clothing                      556        7
Leather & Leather Products   470        6
Resource Balance               -2.393   -6.250   -5.622  -4.913               Jute Oeufactures              279       4
Iron Ore                      352       4
Interest Income (net) k/          287      600      212    -128               Cotton Textiles               319       4
Net Transfers  I/               1.852    2.771    1.577    1.668              Sugar                         10         1
others                      3,789      47
hIlance on Current Account       -254  -2.879   -3.833   -3.373
Official AId                                                                  Total                       7.986    too
Gross Disburseuots              1.218    1.629    1.821    1.933              EXTERNAL  DEBT. KUACH 31. 1982
Amortization                    1.894    2.331    2.475    2.569
U#S billion
Traneccions with 1MF              -      1.035      690    1.980              Outstanding and Diabursed               18.3
All Other Items o/               -740     -130   -1.075     -358              Undisbursed                             8.5
Outstanding, including                 26.8
Increase in Remerves  -)         -224      345    2.397     -IB2                Undiaburmed
Grois Reserves (end year) t1    7.204    b.859    4.462    4.646
liet Reserves (end year) m1     7.204    6.532    3.498    1.703              DEMT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1931/82 I/ n/ l89 per cent
Fuel snd Related Materials                          D         IRD/IDA LENDIKO. as of February 28. 1983
ImPorts (Petroleum) g/          4.046    6.657    5.570    4.666                                                   USS million
IBRD         IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed        L.357         6,688
Undisburmed                      1.896         4.270
Outstanding including
Undisbursed                    3.253        10.958
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to aid-December 1971    :      USS1.00 - Es 7.50                    Spot Rate endarch L983: US$1.00 - Re 10.03
Re 1.00 - uS$O.13333                                            Rs 1.00 - USS0.0997
mdi-December 1971 to end-June 1972:      US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US0.137376
After end-June 1972               :      Floating Race
Spot Rate end-December 1981       :      US$1.00 - Re 9.099
Re 1.00 - USSt.110
Spot Rate end-Dcember 1982       :      UsSI.00 - Re 9.634
Re 1.00 - USSO. 10
jI1 Estimated.
I/ Figures gtven cower al investmNt Income (net). Major payents are interest on foreign loans end charges paid to
LIF. and major receipte  In intereut arned On foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include wrkers' reittne   but exclude official grant assistance shit is included within
official aid disburew nt
s/ Excludes net us of IMF credit.
Amortizaton end interest Payments on foreiln loam  a  a percentage of exports of goods and services.asd current trenfer.
o/ Includes comercial borrowing.
p/ Excluding gold.
J/ Net of crude petroleum exports.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE                                 ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                             1,688.0          --
83 Credits fully disbursed                                -       4,759.0            -
482-iN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -          30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975     Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -          83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975     Rajasthan Dairy                       -          27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -          16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976     Fertilizer Industry                   -         105.0           3.12
504-IN    1976     Power Transmission IV                 -         150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development         -          18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -            44.92
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0         -            15.89
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport               25.0         -             4.77
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -          20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977     Singrauli Thermal Power               -         150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0         10.29
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             4.08
712-IN    1977     H.P. Agric. Development               -          10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -          23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development        -           8.0           3.96
736--IN    1978    Maharashtra Irrigation                -          70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978     Industry DFC XII                     78.5         -             2.49
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978     Calcutta Urban Development II         -          87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                          -            8.0          5.81
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0         -             2.54
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0         -             8.38
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978     Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -          14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978     Gujarat Irrigation                    -          85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978     Andbra Pradesh Fisheries              -          17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -          16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0         -            22.27
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0          48.31
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -          27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit Year of
CreditYeAprova  Purpose                       Bank        IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                       -           30.0          5.51
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power            50.0         -           50.00
874-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             -         200.0         41.57
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                    -         129.0         61.80
899-IN1   1979     Maharashtra Water Supply             -          48.0         15.25
911-IN   1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II       -         175.0         21.96
925-Ilq   1979     Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry        -          23.0          8.05
954-I1    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II            -         210.0         82.85
961-li    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry           -          37.0         15.27
963_1N    1980     Inland Fisheries                     -          20.0         17.90
981-IN   1980      Population II                        -          46.0         36.41
1003-IX    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                 -          32.0         23.97
1011-IX    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                -         175.0        121.65
1012-IX    1980     Cashewnut                            -          22.0         18.24
1027-Iq   1980      Singrauli Thermal II                 -         300.0        213.36
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension        -          10.0          8.99
1033-tq   1980      Calcutta Urban Transport             -          56.0         23.21
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture               -           54.0         41.38
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -           80.0         61.54
1843-iN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                  100.0         -           10.61
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               25.0         -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power               -          225.0        170.60
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                 30.0          -           23.46
1925-IN    1981     Bombay High Offshore Development  400.n          -            7.41
1O72-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                               35.0         23.58
1O78-KLN   1981    14ahanadi Barrages                               83.0         72.77
1O82-IN    1981    Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0         29.04
1lO8-IN    1981    M.P. Medium Irrigation               -          140.0        12B.41
1ll2-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII              -         314.0        176.21
116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation           -           54.0         53.45
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertilizer ProJect           -          400.0        281.64
1l35-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.       -           23.0         20.24
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.        -           28.0         23.88
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II           -           37.0         35.73
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II              -          125.0        106.34
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II      -          400.0        367.32
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation    -           220.0        199.76
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint               100.0         -           61.58
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry          -          29.0         25.41
1185-tN    1982     Xanpur Urban Development            -           25.0         21.68
2051-tN    1982     ICICI XIV                          150.0         -          104.43
2076-1N   1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II        300.0         -          300.00
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                            190.0         -          121.32
1219-tN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -            6.0          5.50
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization         200.0         -          171.60
2165I N    1982     Rural Electrification III          304.5         -          300.00
2l86-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                  20.3         _           20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA 1/     Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   -           60.0         45.33
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                 -           72.0         71.39
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -          33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh               -            -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0         26.94
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation              -          127.0        121.37
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration       165.5          -          158.92
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0         -           197.04
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      222.3         -           219.01
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -          150.0        143.60
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II             -         101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -         170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III*      -          147.0        147.00
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         32.00
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization       22.7         -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission*        250.7         -           250.70
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2         -            46.08
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban*               24.1         -            24.10
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II*                -          105.0        105.00
Total                                   5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid              1,251.2       136.1
Total now outstanding                   3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           _
Total now held by Bank and IDA 31       3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,100.45    4,124.24
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
31  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                      Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Reprblic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5       1.2       8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                 15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0         -       15.0
1981            NagarJuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0         -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.7         -      15.7
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.3         -        8.3
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk M4anu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                          53.0       3.'      56.4
Repaid                       30.1         -      30.1
Cancelled                    16.1        1.4     17.5
Now Held                    112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                  82.9         -      82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 f 
INDIA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken by the country to prepare the project
About one year.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
The Directorates of Health and Family Welfare of the
State Governments of Karnataka and Kerala assisted by
the GOI Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
May 1982; October 1982.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 20, 1983.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
October 28, 1983.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
March 31, 1984.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Act)3us
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) The results of a six-week survey of gaps in
skills, knowledge and practices of service
delivery staff will be furnished to the
Association for review and comment by May 1,
1984 (Cpga. 53).
(b) A qualified IEC specialist with the rank of
Joint Director and a qualified IEC Consultant
will be appointed by Karnataka and Kerala by
May 1, 1984 (para. 55).
(c) Detailed strategies drawn up by the IEC Directorate
of each State would be made available to the
Association for review and comment no later than
two months before the start of each fiscal year
(para. 55).
Cd) The States would undertake a mid-term review of the
progress of project implementation and rerformance
of the family welfare program, make the results
of such review available to the Association not
later than September 30, 1986 and undertake any
necessary actions as agreed upon (para. 60).






